Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, as well as in other documents that we may file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), all of which you should review carefully. Please consider our forward-looking statements in light of those risks as you read this Annual Report. iii PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS As used in this Annual Report, the terms we, us, our, and the Company refer to Verb Technology Company, Inc., a Nevada corporation. Corporate Overview Formation, Corporate Changes and Material Mergers and Acquisitions Organization Cutaia Media Group, LLC (CMG) was organized as a limited liability company under the laws of the State of Nevada on December 12, 2012. On May 19, 2014, CMG merged into bBooth, Inc. and bBooth, Inc., thereafter, changed its name to bBooth (USA), Inc., effective as of October 16, 2014. The operations of CMG and bBooth (USA), Inc., became known as, and are referred to in this Annual Report as, bBoothUSA. On October 16, 2014, bBoothUSA was acquired by Global System Designs, Inc. (GSD), pursuant to a Share Exchange Agreement entered into with GSD (the Share Exchange Agreement). GSD was incorporated in the State of Nevada on November 27, 2012. The acquisition was accounted for as a reverse merger transaction. In connection with the closing of the transactions contemplated by the Share Exchange Agreement, GSDs management was replaced by bBoothUSAs management, and GSD changed its name to bBooth, Inc. Effective April 21, 2017, we changed our corporate name from bBooth, Inc. to nFsz, Inc. The name change was effected through a parent/subsidiary short-form merger of nFsz, Inc., our wholly-owned Nevada subsidiary, formed solely for the purpose of the name change, with and into us. We were the surviving entity. To effectuate the name-change merger, we filed Articles of Merger and a Certificate of Correction (relative to the effective date of the name-change merger) with the Secretary of State of the State of Nevada on April 4, 2017, and April 17, 2017, respectively. The name-change merger became effective on April 21, 2017. Our board of directors approved the name-change merger, which resulted in the name change on that date. In accordance with Section 92A.180 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (the NRS), stockholder approval of the merger was not required. On November 8, 2018, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement), by and among Sound Concepts, Inc., a Utah corporation (Sound Concepts), NF Merger Sub, Inc., a Utah corporation (Merger Sub 1), NF Acquisition Company, LLC, a Utah limited liability company (Merger Sub 2), the shareholders of Sound Concepts (the Sound Concepts Shareholders), the shareholders representative (the Shareholder Representative), and us, pursuant to which we will acquire Sound Concepts (the Sound Concepts Acquisition) through a two-step merger, consisting of merging Merger 1 Sub with and into Sound Concepts, with Sound Concepts surviving the first step of the merger as our wholly-owned subsidiary (and the separate corporate existence of Merger Sub 1 will cease) and, immediately thereafter, merging Sound Concepts with and into Merger Sub 2, with Merger Sub 2 surviving the second step of the merger, such that, upon the conclusion of the second step of the merger, the separate corporate existence of Sound Concepts will cease and Merger Sub 2 will continue its limited liability company existence under Utah law as the surviving entity and as our wholly-owned subsidiary (collectively, the Merger). On the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, at the effective time of the Merger (the Effective Time), each share of Sound Concepts capital stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time (the Sound Concepts Capital Stock) will be cancelled and converted into the right to receive a proportionate share of $25,000,000 of value (the Closing Merger Consideration), to be payable through a combination of a cash payment by us of $15,000,000 (the Acquisition Cash Payment) and the issuance of shares of our Common Stock with a fair market value of $10,000,000 (the Acquisition Stock). The Closing Merger Consideration is not subject to any closing working capital adjustment or post-closing working capital adjustment. We expect the Sound Concepts Acquisition to close in the first quarter of 2019. However, we cannot provide any assurance as to the actual timing of completion of the Sound Concepts Acquisition, or whether the Sound Concepts Acquisition will be completed at all. 1 Effective February 1, 2019, we changed our corporate name from nFsz, Inc. to Verb Technology Company, Inc. The name change was effected through a parent/subsidiary short-form merger of Verb Technology Company, Inc., our wholly-owned Nevada subsidiary, formed solely for the purpose of the name change, with and into us. We were the surviving entity. To effectuate the name-change merger, we filed Articles of Merger with the Secretary of State of the State of Nevada on January 31, 2019. The name-change merger became effective on February 1,, 2019. Our board of directors approved the name-change merger, which resulted in the name change on that date. In accordance with Section 92A.180 of the NRS, stockholder approval of the name-merger was not required. On February 1, 2019, we implemented a 1-for-15 reverse stock split (the Reverse Stock Split) of our common stock, $0.0001 par value per share (the Common Stock). The Reverse Stock Split became effective upon commencement of trading of our Common Stock on February 4, 2019. As a result of the Reverse Stock Split, every fifteen (15) shares of our pre-Reverse Stock Split Common Stock were combined and reclassified into one share of our Common Stock. The number of shares of Common Stock subject to outstanding options, warrants, and convertible securities were also reduced by a factor of fifteen] as of February 1, 2019. All historical share and per-share amounts reflected throughout our consolidated financial statements and other financial information in this Annual Report have been adjusted to reflect the Reverse Stock Split. The par value per share of our Common Stock was not affected by the Reverse Stock Split. Our Business We are an applications services provider, marketing cloud-based business software products under the brand name Tagg on a subscription basis. Our flagship product, TaggCRM, is a Customer Relationship Management (CRM) application that is distinguishable from other CRM programs because it utilizes interactive video as the primary means of communication between sales and marketing professionals and their clients or prospects. TaggCRM allows our users to create, distribute, and post interactive videos that contain on-screen clickable Taggs which are interactive icons, buttons, and other on-screen elements, that, when clicked, allow their prospects and customers to respond to our users call to action in real-time, in the video, while the video is playing, without leaving or stopping the video. For example, our technology allows a prospective customer or a prospect the ability to click on a product they see featured in a video and buy it, or to click on a calendar icon in the video to make an appointment with a salesperson, among many other features and functionality. Tagg videos can be distributed via email or text messaging and can be posted on social media. Our users report increased sales conversion rates compared to traditional, non-interactive video. We developed the proprietary patent-pending interactive video technology that serves as the basis for all of our cloud, Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) Tagg applications. Our Tagg applications are accessible on all mobile and desktop devices and no software download is required to view the Tagg interactive videos. The Tagg applications also provide detailed analytics in the application dashboard that reflect when the videos were viewed, by whom, how many times, for how long, and what interactive Taggs were clicked-on in the video, among other things, all of which assist our users in focusing their sales and marketing efforts by identifying which clients or prospects have interest in the subject matter of the video. TaggCRM users receive a text message immediately notifying them that a customer prospect received their video and additional text messages notifying them when that customer or prospect watched the video and shared the video so they can follow-up in real-time. Our Tagg application platform can accommodate any size sales or marketing campaign, and it is enterprise-class scalable to meet the needs of todays global organizations. Our TaggMED application is designed for physicians and other healthcare providers to create more efficient and effective interactive communications with patients. Patients are able to avoid unnecessary and inconvenient visits to their physicians or other healthcare providers offices by viewing and responding to interactive videos through in-video, on-screen clicks that are designed to assess the patients need for an office visit. If the patients responses to the interactive video indicate that an office visit is either necessary or desirable, the patient can schedule the office visit right in through video in real time. Patients can also download and print prescriptions, care instructions, and other physician distributed documents right from and through the video. TaggMED is offered on a subscription basis. 2 Our TaggEDU application is designed for teachers and school administrators for more effective communications with students, parents, and faculty. TaggEDU allows teachers to deliver interactive video lessons to students that are both more engaging and more effective. TaggEDU allows teachers to communicate with students through their mobile devices and computers to deliver lessons and tests/quizzes on the screen and in the Tagg video. The analytics capabilities of TaggEDU available on the application dashboard of the teacher or school administrator allow them to track which students watched the lesson, when, for how long, how many times, and track and report on test/quiz results. TaggEDU is offered on a subscription basis. Our TaggLIVE application is also part of our proprietary interactive Tagg video applications portfolio. TaggLIVE is a Facebook application that works in conjunction with Facebook Live, allowing users of Facebook Live to place clickable Taggs on the screens of everyone watching their Facebook Live broadcasts in real time. Viewers can click the on-screen Taggs to purchase products and services placed there and offered by the person utilizing our TaggLIVE Facebook application. TaggLIVE is scheduled for release in the first quarter of 2019. Revenue Generation We intend to generate revenue from the following sources: Recurring subscription fees paid by enterprise users for access to our stand-alone applications by enterprise employees or affiliates; Recurring subscription fees paid by non-enterprise individual users for access to our stand-alone applications; In-app and online purchases by users to access various premium services, features, functionality, and options of the platform (such as the ability to purchase videos from our soon-to-be-released Video Template Store and Creator Program to which users can add their own clickable Taggs), among several other add-on features and functionality; Recurring subscription fees paid by enterprise users for access to our applications integrated into large, third-party CRM providers such as Oracle/NetSuite; Marketo, Inc., an Adobe company (Adobe Marketo); Salesforce.com, Inc. (Salesforce. com ); and Microsoft Corporation (Microsoft); among others; Recurring subscription fees paid by enterprise users who subscribe to bundled service offerings from our partners and/or their respective value-added resellers. Our Market Our market is intentionally broad and includes sales-based organizations, consumer brands, ad agencies, online marketers, advertisers, sponsors, social media influencers, enterprise users - large and small, religious organizations, health care providers, network marketing and multi-level marketing companies, media companies, major motion picture studios, social media companies, schools and training facilities, and virtually any other person or organization that seeks to attract, engage, and communicate with prospects, customers, consumers, fans, followers, patients, students, friends, and subscribers, among others, online, utilizing automated, interactive video technology. Distribution Methods Our distribution methods are: 1. Prospective customers and clients can subscribe to our TaggCRM software service on a monthly or annual contract through a simple, web-based sign-up form accessible on our website (https://www.myverb.com), as well as through interactive sign-up links that we distribute via email and text messaging and through social media. 2. Enterprise users can subscribe to our TaggCRM software service and then distribute custom-branded sign-up links to their internal and external staff via email or other electronic means. 3. We have entered into partnership agreements with other CRM providers to incorporate our Tagg interactive video technology into such other CRM providers software platforms to be offered to their existing and prospective client base for an additional monthly recurring fee, which fee is shared with us. In January 2018, we entered into such an agreement with Oracle America, Inc. Oracle, to integrate our Tagg interactive video technology into their NetSuite platform on a revenue-share basis. In February 2018, we entered into a similar agreement with Adobe Marketo, to integrate our Tagg interactive video technology into their platform on a revenue-share basis. On January 23, 2019, we entered into an agreement with Microsoft , pursuant to which we will integrate our Tagg interactive video technology into Microsofts product line, beginning with its email platform, Outlook, and then other Microsoft Office 365 services. On February 4, 2019, we entered into a revenue share partnership agreement with Salesforce.com, pursuant to which we will integrate our Tagg interactive video technology into the Salesforce.com CRM platform. 3 4. We have entered into license and partnership agreements with digital marketing companies and advertising agencies to resell our Tagg interactive video technology to their existing and prospective client bases for monthly fees which fees are shared with us. In March 2018, we entered into such an agreement with DR2Marketing, LLC to utilize, as well as to resell, our Tagg applications to their clients on a revenue-share basis. 5. We have entered into partnership agreements with large cloud services providers, who will bundle our application with such providers other applications offered to their existing and prospective global customer base in order to obtain more data storage and bandwidth utilization fees from such customers. On January 23, 2019, we entered into a partnership agreement with Microsoft, pursuant to which we will integrate our Tagg interactive video technology into Microsofts product line, allowing their resellers to bundle our application for resale to their respective customer bases. 6. We employ a direct sales team, as well as outside sales consultants. Marketing We utilize our own proprietary interactive video platform as the foundation of our ongoing marketing initiatives. Our initiatives include daily, broad-based social media engagement by a dedicated team of full-time employees and outside consultants; management of our interactive video-based website; interactive video-based email campaigns, television commercials, among many other ongoing initiatives designed to increase awareness of our products and services and drive conversion and adoption rates. As part of our partnership agreement with Microsoft, we will have access to their Go-To-Market Services and technical resources to help us market and sell our integrated products to Microsoft customers, as well as other Microsoft partners and systems integrators in Microsofts network all over the world. On December 21, 2018, we entered into an agreement with Major Tom Agency, Inc., a premier digital marketing agency with offices in New York, Toronto and Vancouver, to design, launch and manage a comprehensive national marketing campaign for us. The campaign is expected to launch in late February 2019. Competition CRM software generated more than $40.7 billion in sales revenue throughout the world in 2017, has grown to become the largest software segment, overtaking data management software, and is expected to reach more than $80 billion in sales revenue by 2025. We are active in the CRM applications industry. We believe that CRM applications that incorporate our proprietary Tagg interactive video technology provide significant competitive advantages over the CRM applications offered by the long-term leaders in the field: Salesforce.com, Microsoft, Oracle, SAP SE, and Adobe Inc. (Adobe), which collectively account for approximately 40% of industry sales. These companies, as well as many others, have numerous differences in feature sets and functionality, but all share certain basic attributes. Most of them were designed before the advent and proliferation of mobile phones, social media, and the technology behind the current ubiquity of video over the internet and more recently on mobile devices. While many of them have attempted to incorporate video capabilities into their respective CRM platforms, sometimes in bolt-on fashion, it is our opinion that none of them has done so in an effective manner, and certainly none of them utilizes interactive video technology similar to ours, which places clickable calls to action right in the video, including into users pre-existing sales and product videos. In addition, Tagg interactive videos are viewable on both mobile and desktop devices regardless of operating system and without the need to download a proprietary player or program. These differences serve to highlight the reasons we have chosen not only to develop our own stand-alone SaaS cloud CRM platform, but also to incorporate and integrate our interactive video technology into the platforms of many of these large, long-term leaders in the CRM industry. This allows them to offer Tagg interactive video capabilities to their large enterprise clients and customers as an upgrade feature to their CRM platform subscriptions. The viability of this strategy is evidenced by the partnerships we currently enjoy with Oracle NetSuite and Adobe Marketo, as well as new partnerships with Salesforce.com. and Microsoft, among others. Nevertheless, the market share, marketing strength, and competitive advantages of our competitors may preclude our obtaining any material share of this market. 4 Intellectual Property Our policy is to protect our technology by, among other things, trade secret protection and copyrights. We primarily rely upon trade secrets and copyrighted proprietary software, code, and know-how to protect our Tagg interactive video technology platform and associated applications. We have taken security measures to protect our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, to the extent possible. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not prove to be adequate and our competitors may independently develop technology or products that are similar to ours or that compete with ours. Trade secret and copyright laws afford only limited protection for our technology and products. The laws of many countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Third parties may also design around our proprietary rights, which may render our protected technology and products less valuable, if the design around is favorably received in the marketplace. We recently filed a patent application with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or PTO, with respect to our interactive video technology. Our patent application may not result in an issued patent in a timely manner, or at all. Any patents that may be issued in the future may not protect commercially important aspects of our technology. Furthermore, the validity and enforceability of such patents issued in the future may be challenged by third parties and could be invalidated or modified by the PTO. Third parties may independently develop technology that is not covered by our patents, that is similar to, or competes with, our technology. In addition, our intellectual property may be infringed or misappropriated by third parties, particularly in foreign countries where the laws and governmental authorities may not protect our proprietary rights as effectively as those in the United States. In addition, if any of our products or technology is covered by third-party patents or other intellectual property rights, we could be subject to various legal actions. We cannot assure you that our technology platform and products do not infringe patents held by others or that they will not in the future. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement, invalidity, misappropriation, or other claims. Research and Development We incurred $980,000 and $375,000 of research and development expenses during the fiscal years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. These funds were primarily used for development of our Tagg interactive video CRM software. Suppliers We currently rely on a full-time, dedicated, external team of experienced professionals for the coding and maintenance of our software. We believe we have mitigated the associated risks of managing an external team of software development professionals by incorporating internal management and oversight, as well as appropriate systems, protocols, controls, and procedures and ensuring that we have access to additional qualified professionals to provide like or complementary services. Dependence on Key Customers Based on our current business and anticipated future activities as described in this Annual Report, we do not have, and do not expect to have, any significant customer concentration. Accordingly, we do not expect to be dependent on any key customers. Government Regulation Government regulation is not of significant concern for our business nor is government regulation expected to become an impediment to the business in the near- or mid-term as management is currently unaware of any planned or anticipated government regulation that would have a material impact on our business. Our management believes it currently possesses all requisite authority to conduct our business as described in this Annual Report. Employees As of February 1, 2019, we had 10 full-time statutory employees, and 14 full-time consultants and contractors. We also employ consultants and contractors on an as-needed-basis to provide specific expertise in areas of software design, development and coding, content creation, audio and video editing, video production services, and other business functions, including marketing and accounting. None of our employees or consultants, are currently covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We have had no labor-related work stoppages and believe our relationship with our employees, consultants, and consultants, both full-time and part-time, is good. 5 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following is a discussion of the primary factors that may affect the operations and/or financial performance of our business. Refer to the section entitled Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report for an additional discussion of these and other related factors that affect our operations and/or financial performance. Risks Related to Our Business We have incurred significant net losses and cannot assure you that we will achieve or maintain profitable operations. To date, we have not generated any significant revenues from our operations and have incurred losses since inception. Our net loss was $12,127,000 for the year ended December 31, 2018 and $7,266,000 for the year ended December 31, 2017. As of December 31, 2018, we had stockholders deficit of $5,055,000. We may continue to incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications, and delays, and other unknown events. We anticipate that our operating expenses will increase substantially in the foreseeable future as we undertake increased technology and production efforts to support our business and increase our marketing and sales efforts to drive an increase in the number of customers and clients utilizing our services. These expenditures may make it more difficult to achieve and maintain profitability. In addition, our efforts to grow our business may be more expensive than we expect, and we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to offset increased operating expenses. If we are forced to reduce our expenses, our growth strategy could be compromised. To offset these anticipated increased operating expenses, we will need to generate and sustain significant revenue levels in future periods in order to become profitable, and, even if we do, we may not be able to maintain or increase our level of profitability. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will achieve sustainable operating profits as we continue to expand our infrastructure, restructure our balance sheet, further develop our marketing efforts, and otherwise implement our growth initiatives. Any failure to achieve and maintain profitability would have a materially adverse effect on our ability to implement our business plan, our results and operations, and our financial condition, and could cause the value of our Common Stock, to decline, resulting in a significant or complete loss of your investment. Our independent registered public accounting firms reports for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 have raised substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm indicated in its report on our audited consolidated financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. A going concern opinion indicates that the financial statements have been prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern and do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability and classification of assets, or the amounts and classification of liabilities that may result if we do not continue as a going concern. Therefore, you should not rely on our consolidated balance sheet as an indication of the amount of proceeds that would be available to satisfy claims of creditors, and potentially be available for distribution to stockholders, in the event of liquidation. The presence of the going concern note to our financial statements may have an adverse impact on the relationships we are developing and plan to develop with third parties as we continue the commercialization of our products and could make it challenging and difficult for us to raise additional financing, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our business and prospects and result in a significant or complete loss of your investment. 6 Our ability to grow and compete in the future will be adversely affected if adequate capital is not available to us or not available on terms favorable to us. We have limited capital resources. To date, we have financed our operations entirely through equity investments by founders and other investors and the incurrence of debt, and we expect to continue to do so in the foreseeable future. Our ability to continue our normal and planned operations, to grow our business, and to compete in our industry will depend on the availability of adequate capital. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain additional funding from those or other sources when or in the amounts needed, on acceptable terms, or at all. If we raise capital through the sale of equity, or securities convertible into equity, it would result in dilution to our then-existing stockholders, which could be significant depending on the price at which we may be able to sell our securities. If we raise additional capital through the incurrence of additional indebtedness, we would likely become subject to further covenants restricting our business activities, and holders of debt instruments may have rights and privileges senior to those of our then-existing stockholders. In addition, servicing the interest and principal repayment obligations under debt facilities could divert funds that would otherwise be available to support development of new programs and marketing to current and potential new clients. If we are unable to raise capital when needed or on attractive terms, we could be forced to delay, reduce, or eliminate development of new programs or future marketing efforts, or reduce or discontinue our operations. Any of these events could significantly harm our business, financial condition, and prospects. Our business depends on customers increasing their use of our services and/or platform, and we may experience loss of customers or decline in their use of our services and/or platform. Our ability to grow and generate revenue depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and grow our relationships with existing customers and convince them to increase their usage of our platform. If our customers do not increase their use of our platform, then our revenue may not grow and our results of operations may be harmed. It is difficult to predict customers usage levels accurately and the loss of customers or reductions in their usage levels may have a negative impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If a significant number of customers cease using, or reduce their usage of, our platform, then we may be required to spend significantly more on sales and marketing than we currently plan to spend in order to maintain or increase revenue from customers. These additional expenditures could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Most of our customers do not have long-term contractual financial commitments to us and, therefore, most of our customers could reduce or cease their use of our platform at any time without penalty or termination charges. The market in which we operate is dominated by large, well established competitors. The CRM industry is currently dominated by Salesforce.com, Microsoft, Oracle, SAP SE, and Adobe, which collectively account for approximately 40% of industry sales. The CRM applications offered by these companies, as well as by many others, have numerous differences in feature sets and functionality, but all share certain basic attributes. Most of them were designed before the advent and proliferation of mobile phones, social media, and the technology behind the current ubiquity of video over the internet and more recently on mobile devices. While many of our competitors have attempted to incorporate video capabilities into their respective CRM platforms, none of them utilize interactive video technology similar to that of ours. In addition, our Tagg interactive videos are viewable on both mobile and desktop devices regardless of operating system and without the need to download a proprietary player or program. The market in which we operate is intensely competitive and, if we do not compete effectively, our operating results could be harmed. The market for CRM applications is intensely competitive and rapidly changing, barriers to entry are relatively low, many of our competitors are larger and have more resources than we do, and, with the introduction of new technologies and market entrants, we expect competition to intensify in the future. If we fail to compete effectively, our operating results will be harmed. Notwithstanding the competitive edge that we believe our Tagg interactive video capability provides our CRM applications, many of our competitors enjoy other substantial competitive advantages, such as greater name recognition, longer operating histories, and larger marketing budgets, as well as substantially greater financial, technical, and other resources. In addition, many of our potential competitors have established marketing relationships and access to larger customer bases, and have major distribution agreements with consultants, system integrators, and resellers. 7 As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, or customer requirements. Furthermore, because of these advantages, even if our products and services are more effective than the products and services that our competitors offer, potential customers might accept competitive products and services in lieu of purchasing our products and services. For all of these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors We may not be able to increase the number of our partners or grow the revenues received from our current partnership relationships. The differences between our Tagg interactive video CRM applications and many of the larger, more established providers of CRM software may serve to highlight the reasons we have chosen not only to develop our own stand-alone SaaS cloud CRM platform, but also to incorporate and integrate our interactive video technology into the platforms of many of these large, long-term leaders in the CRM industry. This allows them to offer Tagg interactive video capabilities to their large enterprise clients and customers as an upgrade feature to their CRM platform subscriptions. The viability of this strategy is evidenced by the partnerships we currently enjoy with Oracle NetSuite and Adobe Marketo, as well as new partnerships with Salesforce.com. and Microsoft, among others. There can be no assurance, however, that those relationships will result in material revenues for us or that we will be able to generate any other meaningful partnerships. We may not be able to develop enhancements and new features to our existing service or acceptable new services that keep pace with technological developments. Even though we believe that our Tagg interactive video CRM applications are currently unsurpassed in features and ease of use, technology invariably advances. If we are unable to develop enhancements to, and new features for, our Tagg interactive video CRM applications that keep pace with rapid technological developments, our business will be harmed. The success of enhancements, new features, and services depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction, and market acceptance of the feature or edition. Failure in this regard may significantly impair our revenue growth. We may not be successful in either developing these modifications and enhancements or in timely bringing them to market at a competitive price or at all. Furthermore, notwithstanding that our Tagg interactive videos are currently viewable on both mobile and desktop devices regardless of operating system, potential uncertainties about the timing and nature of new network platforms or technologies, or modifications to existing platforms or technologies, could increase our research and development expenses. Any failure of our service to operate effectively with future network platforms and technologies could reduce the demand for our service, result in customer dissatisfaction, and harm our business. Our ability to deliver our services is dependent on the maintenance of the infrastructure of the Internet by third parties. The Internets infrastructure is comprised of many different networks and services that, by design, are highly fragmented and distributed. This infrastructure is run by a series of independent, third-party organizations that work together to provide the infrastructure and supporting services of the Internet under the governance of the Internet Corporation for Assigned Numbers and Names (ICANN) and the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA), which is now related to ICANN. The Internet has experienced, and will continue to experience, a variety of outages and other delays due to damages to portions of its infrastructure, denial-of-service attacks, or related cyber incidents. These scenarios are not under our control and could reduce the availability of the Internet to us or our customers for delivery of our services. Any resulting interruptions in our services or the ability of our customers to access our services could result in a loss of potential or existing customers and harm our business. 8 Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees. The secure processing, maintenance, and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance, or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost, or stolen. Advanced attacks are multi-staged, unfold over time, and utilize a range of attack vectors with military-grade cyber weapons and proven techniques, such as spear phishing and social engineering, leaving organizations and users at high risk of being compromised. The vast majority of data breaches, whether conducted by a cyber attacker from inside or outside of the organization, involve the misappropriation of digital identities and user credentials. These credentials are used to gain legitimate access to sensitive systems and high-value personal and corporate data. Many large, well-known organizations have been subject to cyber-attacks that exploited the identity vector, demonstrating that even organizations with significant resources and security expertise have challenges securing their identities. Any such access, disclosure, or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, regulatory penalties, a disruption of our operations, damage to our reputation, or a loss of confidence in our business, any of which could adversely affect our business, revenues, and competitive position. Organizations face growing regulatory and compliance requirements. New and evolving regulations and compliance standards for cyber security, data protection, privacy, and internal IT controls are often created in response to the tide of cyber-attacks and will increasingly impact organizations. Existing regulatory standards require that organizations implement internal controls for user access to applications and data. In addition, data breaches are driving a new wave of regulation, such as the European Unions General Data Protection Regulation, with stricter enforcement and higher penalties. Regulatory and policy-driven obligations require expensive and time-consuming compliance measures. The fear of non-compliance, failed audits, and material findings has pushed organizations to spend more to ensure they are in compliance, often resulting in costly, one-off implementations to mitigate potential fines or reputational damage. The high costs associated with failing to meet regulatory requirements, combined with the risk of fallout from security breaches, has elevated this topic from the IT organization to the executive and board level. Our business is highly competitive and any failure to adapt to changing consumer preferences may adversely affect our business and financial results. We operate in a highly competitive, consumer-driven, and rapidly changing environment. Our success will, to a large extent, be dependent on our ability to acquire, develop, adopt, upgrade, and exploit new and existing technologies to address consumers changing demands and distinguish our products and services from those of our competitors. We may not be able to accurately predict technological trends or the success of new products and services. If we choose technologies or equipment that are less effective, cost-efficient, or attractive to our customers than those chosen by our competitors, or if we offer products or services that fail to appeal to consumers, are not available at competitive prices, or that do not function as expected, our competitive position could deteriorate, and our business and financial results could suffer. The ability of our competitors to introduce new technologies, products, and services more quickly than we do may adversely affect our competitive position. Furthermore, advances in technology, decreases in the cost of existing technologies, or changes in competitors product and service offerings may require us in the future to increase research and development expenditures or to offer products and services at no or a reduced additional charge or at a lower price. In addition, the uncertainty of our ability, and the costs, to obtain intellectual property rights from third parties could impact our ability to respond to technological advances in a timely and effective manner. If we are unable to compete with existing companies successfully and new entrants to the markets in which we compete in, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. We expect that the success of our business will be highly correlated to general economic conditions. We expect that demand for our products and services will be highly correlated with general economic conditions, as we expect a substantial portion of our revenue will be derived from discretionary spending by individuals, which typically falls during times of economic instability. Declines in economic conditions in the United States or in other countries in which we may operate may adversely impact our financial results. Because such declines in demand are difficult to predict, we or our industry may have increased excess capacity as a result. An increase in excess capacity may result in declines in prices for our products and services. Our ability to grow or maintain our business may be adversely affected by sustained economic weakness and uncertainty, including the effect of wavering consumer confidence, high unemployment, and other factors. The inability to grow or maintain our business would adversely affect our business, financial conditions, and results of operations, and thereby an investment in our Common Stock. 9 We do not currently have any patents to protect our technologies and thus, we may not gain market share from our competitors and be unable to operate our business profitably. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our rights to the technologies used in our products and services. We recently filed a patent application with the PTO with respect to our interactive video technology. Currently, we do not have any issued patents and we rely on copyright, trade secrets, and nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual arrangements to protect our technology and intellectual property rights. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or maintain any competitive advantage. In addition, we cannot be assured that our pending patent application, or any future patent applications, will result in the issuance of a patent to us in a timely manner, or at all, or that we will have the financial or operational resources successfully to prosecute any patents that we may undertake. The PTO may deny or require significant narrowing of claims in our currently pending or any future patent applications, and patents issued as a result thereof, if any, may not provide us with significant commercial protection or be issued in a form that is advantageous to us. We could also incur substantial costs in proceedings before the PTO. Our pending patent application, and any future patent applications, may be challenged, which could reduce our ability to stop competitors from marketing related technologies. There can also be no assurance that competitors will not be able to design around any patents that may be issued to us in the future. In addition, we rely on unpatented proprietary technology. We cannot assure you that we can meaningfully protect all our rights in our unpatented proprietary technology or that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary products or processes or otherwise gain access to our unpatented proprietary technology. We seek to protect our know-how and other unpatented proprietary technology with confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, our partners, independent distributors, and consultants. However, such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements or in the event that our competitors discover or independently develop similar or identical designs or other proprietary information. We currently do not utilize any registered or common law trademarks to protect or brand the name of any of our products. Although we believe that we have a proprietary platform for our technologies and products, we cannot determine with certainty whether any existing third-party patents or the issuance of any third-party patents would require us to alter our technology, obtain licenses, or cease certain activities. We may become subject to claims by third parties that our technology infringes their intellectual property rights. We do not own any patents relating to our Tagg interactive video CRM platform. We do not currently own any domestic or foreign patents relating to our Tagg interactive video CRM applications platform; however, we recently filed a patent application with the PTO with respect to our interactive video technology. We also do not currently have any licenses to use any third-party intellectual property. As such, if we are not successful in obtaining intellectual property rights covering our products or obtaining licenses to use a third-partys intellectual property on reasonable and acceptable terms, it could result in lawsuits against us for trademark and/or intellectual property infringement, and we may not be able to counterclaim with our own infringement allegations. Any such infringement, litigation, or adverse proceeding could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could seriously harm our business operations or results of operations. There can also be no assurance that competitors will not be able to duplicate our interactive video technology or that our competitors will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary products or processes or otherwise gain access to our unpatented proprietary technology. 10 If we are unable to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, we may be unable to compete effectively. We believe that our intellectual property rights are important to our success and our competitive position, and we rely on a combination of copyright and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. Although we have devoted substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our intellectual property rights, the actions taken by us may be inadequate to prevent imitation or improper use of our products and services by others or to prevent others from claiming violations of their intellectual property rights by us. We also rely on confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions with our employees, consultants, and corporate partners to protect our proprietary rights, but we cannot assure the compliance by such parties with their confidentiality obligations, which could be very time consuming and expensive to enforce. Legal challenges to our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our financial results and operations. We rely on licenses and other agreements in respect of our intellectual property with our partners and other parties and other intellectual property rights to conduct our operations. Legal challenges to our intellectual property rights and claims of intellectual property infringement by third parties could require that we enter into royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, incur substantial monetary liability, or be enjoined preliminarily or permanently from further use of the intellectual property in question or from the continuation of our businesses as currently conducted. We may need to change our business practices if any of these events occur, which may limit our ability to compete effectively and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Even if we believe any such challenges or claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend and divert managements attention and resources away from our business. Our success depends, in part, on the capacity, reliability, and security of our information technology hardware and software infrastructure, as well as our ability to adapt and expand our infrastructure. The capacity, reliability, and security of our information technology hardware and software infrastructure are important to the operation of our current business, which would suffer in the event of system failures. Likewise, our ability to expand and update our information technology infrastructure in response to our growth and changing needs is important to the continued implementation of our new service offering initiatives. Our inability to expand or upgrade our technology infrastructure could have adverse consequences, including the delayed provision of services or implementation of new service offerings, and the diversion of development resources. We rely on third parties for various aspects of our hardware and software infrastructure. Third parties may experience errors or disruptions that could adversely impact us and over which we may have limited control. Interruption and/or failure of any of these systems could disrupt our operations and damage our reputation, thus adversely impacting our ability to provide our products and services, retain our current users, and attract new users. In addition, our information technology hardware and software infrastructure may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses, or other events that could have a security impact. If one or more of such events occur, our customer and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our information technology hardware and software infrastructure, or otherwise, could be compromised, which could result in significant losses or reputational damage. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses, any of which could substantially harm our business and our results of operations. 11 We are dependent on third parties to, among other things, maintain our servers, provide the bandwidth necessary to transmit content, and utilize the content derived therefrom for the potential generation of revenues. We depend on third-party service providers, suppliers, and licensors to supply some of the services, hardware, software, and operational support necessary to provide some of our products and services. Some of these third parties do not have a long operating history or may not be able to continue to supply the equipment and services we desire in the future. If demand exceeds these vendors capacity, or if these vendors experience operating or financial difficulties or are otherwise unable to provide the equipment or services we need in a timely manner, at our specifications and at reasonable prices, our ability to provide some products and services might be materially adversely affected, or the need to procure or develop alternative sources of the affected materials or services might delay our ability to serve our users. These events could materially and adversely affect our ability to retain and attract users, and have a material negative impact on our operations, business, financial results, and financial condition. We may not be able to find suitable software developers at an acceptable cost. We currently rely on certain key suppliers and vendors in the coding and maintenance of our software. We will continue to require such expertise in the future. Due to the current demand for skilled software developers, we run the risk of not being able to find or retain suitable and qualified personnel at an acceptable price, or at all. Without these developers, we may not be able to further develop and maintain our software, which is the most important aspect of our business development Our business may be affected by changing consumer preferences or by failure of the public to accept any new product offerings we may pursue. The production and distribution of entertainment content is an inherently risky business because the revenue that may be derived depends primarily on the contents acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. Consumer and audience tastes change frequently, and it is a challenge to anticipate what offerings will be successful at a certain point in time. In addition, competing entertainment content, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions, piracy, and increasing digital and on-demand distribution offerings may also affect the audience for our content. Our expenses may increase as we invest in new programming ideas, and there is no guarantee that the new programming will be successful or generate sufficient revenue to recoup the expenditures. Our future success depends on our key executive officers and our ability to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. Our future success largely depends upon the continued services of our executive officers and management team, especially our Chief Executive Officer and President, Mr. Rory J. Cutaia. If one or more of our executive officers are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them readily, if at all. Additionally, we may incur additional expenses to recruit and retain new executive officers. If any of our executive officers joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose some or all of our customers. Finally, we do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our executive officers. Because of these factors, the loss of the services of any of these key persons could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations, and thereby an investment in our stock. Our continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel will also be critical to our success because we will need to hire and retain additional personnel as our business grows. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain highly qualified personnel. We face significant competition for skilled personnel in our industries. This competition may make it more difficult and expensive to attract, hire, and retain qualified managers and employees. Because of these factors, we may not be able to effectively manage or grow our business, which could adversely affect our financial condition or business. As a result, the value of your investment could be significantly reduced or completely lost. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Securities Our board of directors is authorized to issue additional shares of our Common Stock that would dilute existing stockholders. We are authorized to issue up to 200,000,000 shares of Common Stock and 15,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.0001 per share, of which 12,213,670 shares of Common Stock and no shares of preferred stock are currently issued and outstanding as of February 1, 2019. The number of shares of Common Stock issued and outstanding as of February 1, 2019 excludes 2,315,640 shares of Common Stock issuable upon exercise of stock options, 168,600 shares of Common Stock reserved for issuance under the Plan, 778,443 shares of Common Stock potentially issuable upon the exercise of all outstanding warrants, and 516,078 shares of Common Stock potentially issuable upon the conversion of all outstanding convertible notes. We expect to seek additional financing in order to provide working capital to our business. Our board of directors has the power to issue any or all of such authorized but unissued shares of our Common Stock at any price and, in respect of the preferred stock, at any price and with any attributes, our board of directors considers sufficient, without stockholder approval. The issuance of additional shares of Common Stock in the future will reduce the proportionate ownership and voting power of current stockholders and may negatively impact the market price of our Common Stock. 12 We may issue additional securities with rights superior to those of our Common Stock, which could materially limit the ownership rights of our stockholders. We may offer additional debt or equity securities in private and/or public offerings in order to raise working capital or to refinance our debt. Our board of directors has the right to determine the terms and rights of any debt securities and preferred stock without obtaining the approval of our stockholders. It is possible that any debt securities or preferred stock that we sell would have terms and rights superior to those of our Common Stock and may be convertible into shares of our Common Stock. Any sale of securities could adversely affect the interests or voting rights of the holders of our Common Stock, result in substantial dilution to existing stockholders, or adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. Trading on the OTC Markets Group Inc.s OTCQB tier Venture Market (the OTCQB) may be volatile and sporadic, which could depress the market price of our common stock and make it difficult for our stockholders to resell their shares. Our common stock is quoted on the OTCQB. Trading in stock quoted on over-the-counter markets is often thin and characterized by wide fluctuations in trading prices, due to many factors that may have little to do with our operations or business prospects. This volatility could depress the market price of our Common Stock for reasons unrelated to operating performance. Moreover, the OTCQB is not a stock exchange, and trading of securities on this market is often more sporadic than the trading of securities listed on a national securities exchange like, NASDAQ or the NYSE. Accordingly, stockholders may have difficulty reselling any of our shares. We have applied for listing of our Common Stock on NASDAQ. We can provide no assurance that our Common Stock will qualify to be listed, and, if listed, that our Common Stock will thereafter always meet NASDAQ continued listing standards. Our Common Stock is currently quoted on the OTCQB. We anticipate that our Common Stock will be eligible to be listed on NASDAQ in the near future; however, we can provide no assurance that our application will be approved, and that an active trading market on NASDAQ for our Common Stock will develop and continue. If our Common Stock remains quoted on or reverts to an over-the-counter system rather than being listed on a national securities exchange, you may find it more difficult to dispose of shares of our Common Stock or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our Common Stock. If NASDAQ approves our application to list our Common Stock and we are not able to comply with the applicable continued listing standards of NASDAQ, NASDAQ could delist our Common Stock. Recently, we have applied to list our Common Stock on NASDAQ. There is no assurance that our Common Stock will ever be listed on NASDAQ. Should our Common Stock be listed on NASDAQ, in order to maintain that listing, we must satisfy minimum financial and other continued listing standards, including those regarding director independence and independent committee requirements, minimum stockholders equity, minimum share price, and certain corporate governance requirements. There can be no assurances that we will be able to comply with such applicable continued listing standards. The market price of our Common Stock has been, and may continue to be, subject to substantial volatility. The market price of our Common Stock may fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including; volatility in the trading markets generally and in our particular market segment; limited trading of our Common Stock; actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations; 13 the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in those projections, or our failure to meet those projections; announcements regarding our business or the business of our customers or competitors; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidelines, interpretations, or principles; actual or anticipated developments in our business or our competitors businesses or the competitive landscape generally; developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or our offerings, or third-party proprietary rights; announced or completed acquisitions of businesses or technologies by us or our competitors; new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; any major change in our board of directors or management; sales of shares of our Common Stock by us or by our stockholders; lawsuits threatened or filed against us; and other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism, or responses to these events. Statements of, or changes in, opinions, ratings, or earnings estimates made by brokerage firms or industry analysts relating to the markets in which we operate or expect to operate could have an adverse effect on the market price of our Common Stock. In addition, the stock market as a whole, as well as our particular market segment, has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which may affect the market price for the securities of many companies, and which often have appeared unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. Any of these factors could negatively affect our stockholders ability to sell their shares of Common Stock at the time and price they desire. A decline in the price of our Common Stock could affect our ability to raise further working capital, which could adversely impact our ability to continue operations. A prolonged decline in the price of our Common Stock could result in a reduction in the liquidity of our Common Stock and a reduction in our ability to raise capital. We may attempt to acquire a significant portion of the funds we need in order to conduct our planned operations through the sale of equity securities; thus, a decline in the price of our Common Stock could be detrimental to our liquidity and our operations because the decline may adversely affect investors desire to invest in our securities. If we are unable to raise the funds we require for all of our planned operations, we may be forced to reallocate funds from other planned uses and may suffer a significant negative effect on our business plan and operations, including our ability to develop new products or services and continue our current operations. As a result, our business may suffer, and we may be forced to reduce or discontinue operations. We also might not be able to meet our financial obligations if we cannot raise enough funds through the sale of our Common Stock and we may be forced to reduce or discontinue operations. Because we do not intend to pay any cash dividends on our shares of Common Stock in the near future, our stockholders will not be able to receive a return on their shares unless and until they sell them. We intend to retain any future earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our Common Stock in the near future. The declaration, payment, and amount of any future dividends will be made at the discretion of our board of directors, and will depend upon, among other things, the results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition, operating and capital requirements, and other factors as our board of directors considers relevant. There is no assurance that future dividends will be paid, and, if dividends are paid, there is no assurance with respect to the amount of any such dividend. Unless our board of directors determines to pay dividends, our stockholders will be required to look to appreciation of our Common Stock to realize a gain on their investment. There can be no assurance that this appreciation will occur. If we are unable to establish appropriate internal financial reporting