Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations , as well as in other documents that we may file with the SEC, all of which you should review carefully. We qualify all of our forward-looking statements by these disclaimers. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview We are a Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) applications platform developer. Our platform is comprised of a suite of interactive, video-based sales enablement business software products marketed on a subscription basis. Our applications, available in both mobile and desktop versions, are offered as a fully integrated suite, as well as on a standalone basis, and include verbCRM, our white-labelled Customer Relationship Management (CRM) application for large, sales-based enterprises; verbTEAMS, our CRM application for small- and medium-sized businesses and solopreneurs; verbLEARN, our Learning Management System application, and verbLIVE, our Live Stream eCommerce application. Our Technology Our suite of applications can be distinguished from other sales enablement applications because our applications utilize our proprietary interactive video technology as the primary means of communication between sales and marketing professionals and their customers and prospects. Moreover, the proprietary data collection and analytics capabilities of our applications inform our users on their devices in real time, when and for how long their prospects have watched a video, how many times such prospects watched it, and what they clicked on, which allows our users to focus their time and efforts on hot leads or interested prospects rather than on those that have not seen such video or otherwise expressed interest in such content. Users can create their hot lead lists by using familiar, intuitive swipe left/swipe right on-screen navigation. Our clients report that these capabilities provide for a much more efficient and effective sales process, resulting in increased sales conversion rates. We developed the proprietary patent-pending interactive video technology, as well as several other patent-issued and patent-pending technologies that serve as the unique foundation for all our platform applications. Our Products verbCRM combines the capabilities of CRM lead-generation, content management, and in-video ecommerce capabilities in an intuitive, yet powerful tool for both inexperienced as well as highly skilled sales professionals. verbCRM allows users to quickly and easily create, distribute, and post videos to which they can add a choice of on-screen clickable icons which, when clicked, allow viewers to respond to the users call-to-action in real-time, in the video, while the video is playing, without leaving or stopping the video. For example, our technology allows a prospect or customer to click on a product they see featured in a video and impulse buy it, or to click on a calendar icon in the video to make an appointment with a salesperson, among many other novel features and functionalities designed to eliminate or reduce friction from the sales process for our users. The verbCRM app is designed to be easy to use and navigate, and takes little time and training for a user to begin using the app effectively. It usually takes less than four minutes for a novice user to create an interactive video from our app. Users can add interactive icons to pre-existing videos, as well as to newly created videos shot with practically any mobile device. verbCRM interactive videos can be distributed via email, text messaging, chat app, or posted to popular social media directly and easily from our app. No software download is required to view Verb interactive videos on virtually any mobile or desktop device, including smart TVs. verbLEARN is an interactive, video-based learning management system that incorporates all of the clickable in-video technology featured in our verbCRM application and adapts them for use by educators for video-based education. verbLEARN is used by enterprises seeking to educate a large sales team or a customer base about new products, or elicit feedback about existing products. It also incorporates Verbs proprietary data collection and analytics capabilities that inform users in real time when and for how long the viewers watched the video, how many times they watched it, and what they clicked on, in addition to adding gamification features that enhance the learning aspects of the application. verbLIVE builds on popular video-based platforms such as Facebook Live, Zoom, WebEx, and Go2Meeting, among others, by adding Verbs proprietary interactive in-video ecommerce capabilities including an in-video Shopify shopping cart integrated for Shopify account holders to our own live stream video broadcasting application. verbLIVE is a next-generation live stream platform that allows hosts to utilize a variety of novel sales-driving features, including placing interactive icons on-screen that appear on the screens of all viewers, providing in-video click-to-purchase capabilities for products or services featured in the live video broadcast, in real-time, driving friction-free selling. verbLIVE also provides the host with real-time viewer engagement data and interaction analytics. verbLIVE is entirely browser-based, allowing it to function easily and effectively on all devices without requiring the host or the viewers to download software, and is secured through end-to-end encryption. A mobile app-based version of verbLIVE, with enhanced features, is currently in development and is expected to be released in early second quarter of 2021. verbTEAMS is our interactive, video-based CRM for small-and medium-sized businesses and solopreneurs. verbTEAMS also incorporates verbLIVE as a bundled application. verbTEAMS incorporates self-sign-up, self-onboarding, self-configuring, content management system capabilities, user level administrative capabilities, and high-quality analytics capabilities in both mobile and desktop platforms that sync with one another. It also has a built-in one-click sync capability with Salesforce. 1 Impact of COVID-19 on Our Business and Industry In the three months ended June 30, 2021, the COVID-19 pandemic resulted in significant uncertainty and volatility in a wide variety of industries and markets, including in our industry, and prompted many federal, state, local, and foreign governments to implement various lock-down measures in an attempt to contain the spread and mitigate the impact of the disease. The initial implementation of such lock-down measures, and their re-introduction in response to a nation-wide resurgence of COVID-19 cases in late-2020, resulted in business closures, work stoppages, slowdowns and delays, work-from-home policies, travel restrictions and the cancellation or postponement of events. Despite recent approval and initial distribution of vaccines, both the pandemic and the containment and mitigation measures have had, and are likely to continue to have, an adverse impact on the global and U.S. economies, the severity and duration of which are uncertain. It is likely that government stabilization efforts will only partially mitigate the consequences to the economy. As such, both the pandemic and containment and mitigation measures may adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition by, among other things, reducing demand for our applications, impairing the productivity of our workforce, and reducing our access to capital. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will impact our business, financial conditions, and results of operations in the future remains uncertain and will be affected by a number of factors. These include the duration and extent of the pandemic, the duration and extent of imposed or recommended containment and mitigation measures, the extent, duration, and effective execution of government stabilization and recovery efforts, including those from the successful distribution of effective vaccines. The COVID-19 pandemic may have long-term effects on the nature of the office environment and remote working. This may present operational and workplace culture challenges that may adversely affect our business. However, we are committed to our employees returning to the workplace in the long-term. Throughout the year ended December 31, 2020 and through the filing of this Annual Report, we have encouraged safe practices designed to stem the infection and spread of COVID-19 within our workforce and beyond and to maintain the mental health and well-being of our employees. Beginning in March 2020, in an effort to protect our employees and comply with applicable government orders, we restricted non-essential employee travel and transitioned our employees to a remote work environment. We currently expect the majority of our employees will continue working remotely at least through the second quarter of 2021. Our workforce has continued to effectively develop and support our product and service offerings notwithstanding the current environment. We began the year ended December 31, 2020 with healthy demand for our products and services, many of which are designed to enable our customers to manage their businesses virtually. In the three months ended June 30, 2020, we experienced some uncertainty regarding whether there would be variability in demand for the services we provide on our platform after lock-down measures were implemented. We expect demand variability for our products and services may continue as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic; however, our sales team reported a higher level of interest in our products and services during the year ended December 31, 2020. Although the impact has not been material to date, a prolonged downturn in economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our customers and demand for our services. We continue to actively communicate with and listen to our customers to ensure we are responding to their needs in the current environment with innovative solutions that will not only be beneficial now but also over the long-term. We monitor developments related to COVID-19 and remain flexible in our response to the challenges presented by the pandemic. To mitigate the adverse impact COVID-19 may have on our business and operations, we implemented a number of measures in the year ended December 31, 2020 to protect the health and safety of our employees, as well as to strengthen our financial position. These efforts include eliminating, reducing, or deferring non-essential expenditures, as well as complying with local and state government recommendations to protect our workforce. The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic may also exacerbate other risks discussed in this Annual Report. For a complete description of the material risks we currently face, refer to the section entitled Risk Factors in this Annual Report. Verb Partnerships and Integrations We have completed and deployed the integration of verbLIVE into Salesforce and passed their security review process. In recent weeks we launched a joint marketing campaign with Salesforce to introduce the verbLIVE plug-in functionality to current Salesforce users. A verbCRM sync application for Salesforce users is currently being utilized by at least one of our large enterprise clients and the verbLIVE plug-in is now being offered to all Salesforce users on a monthly subscription fee basis. We have completed the integration of verbCRM into systems offered by 17 of the most popular direct sales back-office system providers, such as Direct Scale, Exigo, By Design, Thatcher, Multisoft, Xennsoft, and Party Plan. Direct sales back-office systems provide many of the support functions required for direct sales operations, including payroll, customer genealogy management, statistics, rankings, and earnings, among other direct sales financial tracking capabilities. The integration into these back-office providers, facilitated through our own API development, allows single sign-on convenience for users, as well as enhanced data analytics and reporting capabilities for all users. We believe that our integration into these back-end platforms accelerates the adoption of verbCRM by large direct sales enterprises that rely on these systems and as such, we believe this represents a competitive advantage. We are currently working to introduce an integration of our interactive video technology into Microsoft Outlook followed by a broad-scale launch in early 2021, pursuant to and in accordance with our existing Microsoft partnership agreement. We expect to follow the Microsoft Outlook integration with the integration into other Microsoft Office 365 products. Non-Digital Products and Services Historically, we have also provided certain non-digital services to some of our enterprise clients such as printing and fulfillment services. We designed and printed welcome kits and starter kits for their marketing needs and provided fulfillment services, which consisted of managing the preparation, handling and shipping of our clients custom-branded merchandise they use for marketing purposes at conferences and other events. We also managed the fulfillment of our clients product sample packs that verbCRM users order through the app for automated delivery and tracking to their customers and prospects. However, on May 20, 2020, we executed a contract with Range Printing (Range), a company in the business of providing enterprise class printing, sample assembly, warehousing, packaging, shipping, and fulfillment services. Pursuant to the contract, through an automated process we have established for this purpose, Range will receive orders for samples and merchandise from us as and when we receive them from our clients and users, and print, assemble, store, package and ship such samples and merchandise on our behalf. The Range contract provides for a revenue share arrangement based upon the specific services to be provided by Range that is designed to maintain our relationship with our clients by continuing to service their non-digital needs, while eliminating the labor and overhead costs associated with the provision of such services by us. The transition to Range Printing is now complete. 2 Our Market Our client base consists primarily of multi-national direct sales enterprises to whom we provide white-labeled, client-branded versions of our products. Our clients also include large professional associations and educational institutions, including school districts, auto sales, auto leasing, insurance, real estate, home security, not-for-profits, as well as clients in the health care industry, and the burgeoning CBD industry, among other business sectors. As of March 26, 2021, we provide subscription-based application services to approximately 140 enterprise clients for use in over 60 countries, in over 48 languages, which collectively account for a user base generated through more than 1.9 million downloads of our verbCRM application. Among the new business sectors targeted for this year are pharmaceutical sales, government institutions, small businesses and individual entrepreneurs. Revenue Generation We generate revenue from the following sources: recurring subscription fees paid by enterprise users and affiliates; recurring subscription fees paid by non-enterprise, small business, and individual users; recurring subscription fees paid by users who access in-app purchases of various premium services, features, functionality, and upgrades; recurring subscription fees paid by users who access in-app purchases of third-party software provider apps in our forthcoming app store; recurring subscription fees paid by users of Salesforce and Microsoft among others with whom we have executed partnership agreements, for access to our applications that we either have integrated or intend to integrate into these platforms, including recurring subscription fees paid by users who subscribe to bundled service offerings from these partners and/or their respective value-added resellers; recurring subscription fees paid by users for all of the foregoing products and services generated through our recently launched Japan operations; recurring subscription fees paid by users generated through our forthcoming reseller and affiliate distribution programs; and Fees paid by enterprise clients for non-digital products and services through our Range Printing venture. Distribution Methods We distribute our services through the following methods: Prospective customers and clients can subscribe to our applications on a monthly or annual contract through a simple, web-based sign-up form accessible on our website (https://www.verb.tech), as well as through interactive sign-up links that we distribute via email, text messaging and through social media; Enterprise users that subscribe to our verbCRM software service can distribute custom-branded sign-up links to their internal and external staff via email or other electronic means; We have entered into partnership agreements with other CRM providers to incorporate our interactive video technology into such other CRM providers software platforms to be offered to their existing and prospective client base for an additional monthly recurring fee, which fee is shared with us. In January 2018, we entered into such an agreement with Oracle America, Inc. to integrate our interactive video technology into their NetSuite platform on a revenue-share basis. In February 2018, we entered into a similar agreement with Adobe Marketo to integrate our interactive video technology into their platform on a revenue-share basis. On January 23, 2019, we entered into an agreement with Microsoft to integrate our interactive video technology into Microsofts Office 365 services product line, beginning with its email platform Outlook and their internal communications platform TEAMS. On February 4, 2019, we entered into a revenue share partnership agreement with Salesforce.com to integrate our interactive video technology into the Salesforce.com CRM platform. 3 We have entered into license and partnership agreements with digital marketing companies and advertising agencies to resell our Verb interactive video technology to their existing and prospective client bases for monthly fees which fees are shared with us. In March 2018, we entered into such an agreement with DR2Marketing, LLC to use and resell our applications to their clients on a revenue-share basis; We expect to enter into partnership agreements with large cloud services providers, to bundle our application with such providers other applications offered to their existing and prospective global customer base in order to generate greater utilization fees from such customers need for more data storage and bandwidth required by video-based applications. For example, under our agreement with Microsoft, their value-added cloud services resellers may choose to bundle our application for resale to their respective customer bases; and We employ a direct sales team, as well as outside sales consultants. Our Japan Operations In April 2020, we commenced local language sales, sales support, customer support, and marketing operations in Japan. In order to ensure compliance with Japans laws, rules and regulations, our operations were established pursuant to, and in accordance with, an exclusive reseller agreement with an existing Tokyo-based Japanese corporation operated by a team with over 30-years experience in the Japan direct sales industry. They operate and market our applications in Japan under the Verb brand. Japan represents the 3 rd largest global economy and the 5 th largest direct sales market. There are approximately four million direct sales representatives in Japan which accounted for approximately $16B in 2018 direct sales revenue. More than 50% of our current U.S.-based enterprise clients have a substantial number of sales representatives in Japan that currently do not subscribe to our application, with five of those clients generating the majority of their revenue from their Japan-based sales. We believe the in-country sales, sales support, and customer service we can provide through native language speaking staff in Japan represents a significant opportunity for us to grow our applications subscription business and enhance our clients Japan initiatives. Since we began operations, we have executed verbCRM subscription agreements with 6 Japanese enterprise clients. As of December 31, 2020, Japan isnt a significant source of revenue. We are exploring a similar expansion opportunity in Korea, which has the 3 rd largest direct sales market in the world. Our Historical Background We are a Nevada corporation originally formed as a limited liability company in 2012 as Cutaia Media Group, LLC, or CMG. In May 2014, CMG merged into bBooth, Inc., and in October 2014, bBooth, Inc. changed its name to bBooth (USA), Inc. In October 2014, bBooth (USA), Inc. was acquired by Global System Designs, Inc. In connection with the acquisition, Global Systems Design, Inc. changed its name to bBooth, Inc. In April 2017, we changed our name from bBooth, Inc. to nFsz, Inc, and in February 2019 we changed our name from nFsz, Inc. to Verb Technology Company, Inc. On February 1, 2019, we implemented a 1-for-15 reverse stock split of our common stock, $0.0001 par value per share, or common stock. As a result of the reverse stock split, every fifteen shares of our pre-split common stock were combined and reclassified into one share of our common stock. Our consolidated financial statements have been recast to reflect the 1-for-15 reverse stock split of our common stock. 4 In April 2019, we acquired Sound Concepts Inc. (Sound Concepts) pursuant to an agreement and plan of merger. As a result of the merger, Sound Concepts merged with and into our wholly owned subsidiary, NF Acquisition Company, LLC. Upon completion of the merger, NF Acquisition Company, LLC changed its name to Verb Direct, LLC (Verb Direct). On September 4, 2020, Verb Acquisition Co., LLC (Verb Acquisition), a subsidiary of the Company, entered into a Membership Interest Purchase Agreement (the Purchase Agreement) with Ascend Certification, LLC, dba SoloFire (SoloFire). Our common stock and common stock purchase warrants trade on The NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbols VERB and VERBW, respectively. Our Internet website address is https://www.verb.tech. Marketing We utilize our own proprietary interactive video platform as the foundation of our ongoing marketing initiatives. Our initiatives include, among other things, daily, broad-based social media engagement by a dedicated team of full-time employees and outside consultants; management of our interactive video-based website; and interactive video-based email campaigns and television commercials. In addition, the 17 direct sales back office systems providers with whom we have integrated verbCRM, market our applications to their customers and prospects in exchange for finders fees. Competition CRM software generated more than $48.2 billion in sales revenue throughout the world in 2018, has grown to become the largest software segment, overtaking data management software, and is expected to reach more than $80 billion in sales revenue by 2025. We compete in the CRM applications industry, as well as in the video conferencing/webinar industry. We believe that CRM applications that incorporate our proprietary Verb interactive video technology provide significant competitive advantages over the CRM applications that do not. Salesforce, Microsoft, Oracle, SAP, and Adobe, the long-term leaders in the CRM sector, collectively account for approximately 41% of industry sales. These companies, as well as many others, have numerous differences in feature sets and functionality, but all share certain basic attributes. Most of them were designed before the advent and proliferation of mobile phones, social media, and the technology behind the current ubiquity of video over the internet and more recently on mobile devices. While many of them have attempted to incorporate video capabilities into their respective CRM platforms, sometimes in bolt-on fashion, we do not believe any of them has done so in a manner that is as effective as our interactive in-video ecommerce platform that allows users to place clickable calls-to-action right in the video, including into users pre-existing sales and product videos. In addition, Verbs interactive videos are viewable on both mobile and desktop devices regardless of operating system and without the need to download a proprietary player or program. We also compete in the video webinar and ecommerce solution provider sectors. The webinar sector is dominated by Zoom, WebEx, and Go2Meeting, among others. The ecommerce solution provider sector is dominated by Shopify, among others. However, we believe our verbLIVE application provides a superior solution for users seeking to use video webinars as a sales tool because our in-video clickable icons provide seamless in-video ecommerce capabilities that are not offered by either Zoom (or other large webinar providers) or Shopify. We believe verbLIVE represents a unique solution that combines the best features of Zoom and Shopify in a single application, offering users a more friction-free and effective selling experience. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the market share, marketing strength, and established positions in the marketplace of our competitors may prevent us from obtaining a large share of these markets. Intellectual Property Our policy is to protect our technology through, among other things, a combination of patents, trade secrets and copyrights. We primarily rely upon trade secrets and copyrighted proprietary software, code, and know-how to protect our interactive video technology platform and associated applications. We have taken security measures to protect our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, to the extent possible. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not prove to be adequate and our competitors may independently develop technology or products that are similar to ours or that compete with ours. Trade secret and copyright laws afford only limited protection for our technology and products. The laws of many countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Third parties may also design around our proprietary rights, which may render our protected technology and products less valuable, if the design around is favorably received in the marketplace. 5 We recently filed a provisional patent application with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) with respect to providing interactive video streams involving interactive buttons which we utilize in our video products. However, our provisional patent application may not result in the issuance of a patent, or may result in narrow claims, which may limit the protection we are attempting to obtain. We also hold a number of granted patents in two families with pending continuations. A first family relates to systems and methods for enhanced networking, conversion tracking, and conversion attribution. This family contains two issued patents (U.S. Pat. No. 9,792,380, issued October 17, 2017; and U.S. Pat. No. 10,467,317, issued Nov. 5, 2019) and a pending continuation. A second family relates to systems and methods for generating a custom campaign. This family contains one issued patent (U.S. Pat. No. 10,643,247, issued May 5, 2020) and a pending continuation. These existing patents and any future patents that may be issued to us, may not protect commercially important aspects of our technology. Furthermore, the validity and enforceability of such patents may be challenged by third parties, which may result in our patents being invalidated or modified by the PTO, various legal actions against us, the need to develop or obtain alternative technology and/or obtain appropriate licenses under third party patents, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. Third parties may independently develop technology that is not covered by our patents, that is similar to, or competes with, our technology. In addition, our intellectual property may be infringed or misappropriated by third parties, particularly in foreign countries where the laws and governmental authorities may not protect our proprietary rights as effectively as those in the United States. There is a risk that our means of protecting our intellectual property rights may not be adequate, and weaknesses or failures in this area could adversely affect our business or reputation, financial condition, and/or operating results. We control access to our proprietary technology by entering into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, and confidentiality agreements with third parties. Despite our precautions, we cannot assure you that our technology platform and products do not infringe patents held by others or that they will not in the future. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement, invalidity, misappropriation, or other claims. Research and Development We incurred $7,933,000 and $4,312,000 of research and development expenses during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. These expenses were incurred for the development of our interactive video-based sales enablement platform and associated applications. Suppliers While most of our design, development, and engineering team is U.S.-based, we currently utilize a small group of dedicated full-time and part-time off-shore experienced professionals for some of the coding and maintenance of our software. We believe we have mitigated the risks associated with managing an external team of software development professionals by incorporating experienced internal management and oversight, as well as appropriate systems, protocols, controls, and procedures to ensure the protection and integrity of all our applications. We have also ensured access to additional qualified professionals to provide like or complementary services on an as-needed basis. Dependence on Key Customers Based on our current business and anticipated future activities as described in this Annual Report, we do not have any customers that represent more than 10% of our 2020 revenue. Government Regulation Our software and services are subject to certain legal, regulatory and other requirements. These laws are complex and evolving. Various U.S. federal and state laws govern many of our business activities, including, without limitation, the processing of payments and handling of consumer information. Despite our significant efforts to comply with all applicable requirements, there can be no guarantee that our efforts will be sufficient or that existing laws, rules or other requirements will not be interpreted, revised, augmented or rewritten in a way that adversely affects our regulated business activities, which comprise a significant majority of our overall business. For additional information related to these risk-related issues, refer to the section entitled Risk Factors within this Annual Report. 6 Employees As of March 26, 2020, we had 104 full-time statutory employees, four part-time employees, and 59 independent contractors. We engage independent contractors on an as-needed-basis to provide specific expertise in areas of software design, development and coding, content creation, audio and video editing, video production services, and other business functions, including marketing and accounting. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We have had no labor-related work stoppages and believe our relationship with our employees, consultants, and consultants, both full-time and part-time, is satisfactory. We believe our people are at the heart of our success and our customers success. We endeavor to not only attract and retain talented employees, but also to provide a challenging and rewarding environment to motivate and develop our valuable human capital. We look to our talented employees to lead and foster various initiatives that support our company culture including those related to diversity, equity and inclusion. In addition, we rely heavily on our talented team to execute our growth plans and achieve our long-term strategic objectives. We provide competitive compensation and benefits for our employees. Our compensation packages may include base salary, commission or annual performance-based bonuses, and stock-based compensation. We also offer general employee medical, dental, and vision insurance, health savings and flexible spending accounts, mental health resources, paid time off, paid family leave, life and disability insurance, and 401(k) plan matching contributions. These programs and our overall compensation packages seek to attract and retain talented employees. We take the health and welfare of our employees very seriously, and have encouraged safe practices designed to stem the infection and spread of COVID-19 within our workforce and beyond and to maintain the mental health and well-being of our employees. Beginning in March 2020, in an effort to protect our employees and comply with applicable government orders, we restricted non-essential employee travel and transitioned our employees to a remote work environment. We currently expect the majority of our employees will continue working remotely at least through the second quarter of 2021. We are committed to our employees returning to the workplace in the long-term. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our short and long-term success is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, many of which involve factors that are difficult to predict or beyond our control. As a result, investing in the Companys common stock involves substantial risk. The Companys stockholders should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, in addition to the other information contained in or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report, as well as the other information we file with the SEC from time to time. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations and financial results. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Our filings with the SEC also contain forward-looking statements that involve risks or uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated or contemplated by these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors, including the risks we face described below, as well as other variables that could affect our operating results. Past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks Related to Our Business We have incurred significant net losses and cannot assure you that we will achieve or maintain profitable operations. We have incurred recurring losses since inception. Our net loss was $24,956,000 for the year ended December 31, 2020 and $15,918,000 for the year ended December 31, 2019. We may continue to incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications, and delays, and other unknown events. We anticipate that our operating expenses will increase substantially in the foreseeable future as we undertake increased technology and production efforts to support our business and increase our marketing and sales efforts to drive an increase in the number of customers and clients utilizing our services. These expenditures may make it more difficult to achieve and maintain profitability. In addition, our efforts to grow our business may be more expensive than we expect, and we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to offset increased operating expenses. If we are forced to reduce our expenses, our growth strategy could be compromised. To offset these anticipated increased operating expenses, we will need to generate and sustain significant revenue levels in future periods in order to become profitable, and, even if we do, we may not be able to maintain or increase our level of profitability. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will achieve sustainable operating profits as we continue to expand our infrastructure, restructure our balance sheet, further develop our marketing efforts, and otherwise implement our growth initiatives. Any failure to achieve and maintain profitability would have a materially adverse effect on our ability to implement our business plan, our results and operations, and our financial condition, and could cause the value of our common stock, to decline, resulting in a significant or complete loss of your investment. 7 Our independent registered public accounting firms reports for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 have raised substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm indicated in its report on our audited consolidated financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. A going concern opinion indicates that the financial statements have been prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern and do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability and classification of assets, or the amounts and classification of liabilities that may result if we do not continue as a going concern. Therefore, you should not rely on our consolidated balance sheet as an indication of the amount of proceeds that would be available to satisfy claims of creditors, and potentially be available for distribution to stockholders, in the event of liquidation. The presence of the going concern note to our financial statements may have an adverse impact on the relationships we are developing and plan to develop with third parties as we continue the commercialization of our products and could make it challenging and difficult for us to raise additional financing, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our business and prospects and result in a significant or complete loss of your investment. There is no assurance that we will ever be profitable or that debt or equity financing will be available to us in the amounts, on terms, and at times deemed acceptable to us, if at all. The issuance of additional equity securities by us would result in a significant dilution in the equity interests of our current stockholders. Obtaining commercial loans, assuming those loans would be available, would increase our liabilities and future cash commitments. If we are unable to obtain financing in the amounts and on terms deemed acceptable to us, we may be unable to continue our business, as planned, and as a result may be required to scale back or cease operations for our business, the results of which would be that our stockholders would lose some or all of their investment. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability and classification of assets or the amounts and classifications of liabilities that may result should we be unable to continue as a going concern. Our ability to grow and compete in the future will be adversely affected if adequate capital is not available to us or not available on terms favorable to us. We have limited capital resources. We have financed our operations entirely through equity investments by founders and other investors and the incurrence of debt, and we expect to continue to finance our operations in the same manner in the foreseeable future. Our ability to continue our normal and planned operations, to grow our business, and to compete in our industry will depend on the availability of adequate capital. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain additional funding from those or other sources when or in the amounts needed, on acceptable terms, or at all. If we raise capital through the sale of equity, or securities convertible into equity, it would result in dilution to our then-existing stockholders, which could be significant depending on the price at which we may be able to sell our securities. If we raise additional capital through the incurrence of additional indebtedness, we would likely become subject to further covenants restricting our business activities, and holders of debt instruments may have rights and privileges senior to those of our then-existing stockholders. In addition, servicing the interest and principal repayment obligations under debt facilities could divert funds that would otherwise be available to support development of new programs and marketing to current and potential new clients. If we are unable to raise capital when needed or on attractive terms, we could be forced to delay, reduce, or eliminate development of new programs or future marketing efforts, or reduce or discontinue our operations. Any of these events could significantly harm our business, financial condition, and prospects. 8 The success of our business is dependent upon our ability to maintain and expand our customer base and our ability to convince our customers to increase the use of our services and/or platform. If we are unable to expand our customer base and/or the use of our services and/or platform by our customers declines, our business will be harmed. Our ability to expand and generate revenue depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and expand our relationships with existing customers and convince them to increase their use of our platform. If our customers do not increase their use of our platform, then our revenue may not grow and our results of operations may be harmed. It is difficult to predict customers usage levels accurately and the loss of customers or reductions in their usage levels may have a negative impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If a significant number of customers cease using, or reduce their usage of, our platform, then we may be required to spend significantly more on sales and marketing than we currently plan to spend in order to maintain or increase revenue. These additional expenditures could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Most of our customers do not have long-term contractual financial commitments to us and, therefore, most of our customers could reduce or cease their use of our platform at any time without penalty or termination charges. The market in which we operate is intensely competitive and, if we do not compete effectively, our operating results could be harmed. The market for CRM applications is intensely competitive and rapidly changing, barriers to entry are relatively low, and many of our competitors, including Salesforce.com, Microsoft, Oracle, SAP SE, and Adobe, which collectively account for approximately 41% of industry sales, have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, and larger marketing budgets, as well as substantially greater financial, technical, and other resources, than we do. In addition, many of our potential competitors have established marketing relationships and access to larger customer bases, and have major distribution agreements with consultants, system integrators, and resellers. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, or customer requirements. Furthermore, because of these advantages, even if our products and services are more effective than the products and services that our competitors offer, potential customers might accept competitive products and services in lieu of purchasing our products and services. If we do not compete effectively against our current and future competitors, our operating results could be harmed. We may not be able to increase the number of our strategic relationships or grow the revenues received from our current strategic relationships. We have entered into certain strategic relationships with other marketing and CRM platforms, such as Oracle NetSuite and Adobe Market, to incorporate and integrate our interactive video technology, and are actively seeking additional strategic relationships. There can be no assurance, however, that these strategic relationships will result in material revenues for us or that we will be able to generate any other meaningful strategic relationships. If we are not able to increase the number of our strategic relationships or grow the revenues received from our current strategic relationships, our operating results could be harmed. We may not be able to develop enhancements and new features to our existing service or acceptable new services that keep pace with technological developments. If we are unable to develop enhancements to, and new features for, our sales enablement applications that keep pace with rapid technological developments, such as verbLIVE, our business will be harmed. The success of enhancements, new features, and services depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction, and market acceptance of the feature or edition. Failure in this regard may significantly impair our revenue growth or harm our reputation. We may not be successful in either developing these modifications and enhancements or in timely bringing them to market at a competitive price or at all. Furthermore, uncertainties about the timing and nature of new network platforms or technologies, or modifications to existing platforms or technologies, could increase our research and development expenses. Any failure of our service to operate effectively with future network platforms and technologies could reduce the demand for our service, result in customer dissatisfaction, and harm our business. 9 Our ability to deliver our services is dependent on third party Internet providers. The Internets infrastructure is comprised of many different networks and services that, by design, are highly fragmented and distributed. This infrastructure is run by a series of independent, third-party organizations that work together to provide the infrastructure and supporting services of the Internet under the governance of the Internet Corporation for Assigned Numbers and Names (ICANN) and the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA), which is now related to ICANN. The Internet has experienced, and will continue to experience, a variety of outages and other delays due to damages to portions of its infrastructure, denial-of-service attacks, or related cyber incidents. These scenarios are not under our control and could reduce the availability of the Internet to us or our customers for delivery of our services. Any resulting interruptions in our services or the ability of our customers to access our services could result in a loss of potential or existing customers and harm our business. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information, proprietary business information of our customers, including, credit card and payment information, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees. The secure processing, maintenance, and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. As such, we are subject to federal, state, provincial and foreign laws regarding privacy and protection of data. Some jurisdictions have enacted laws requiring companies to notify individuals of data security breaches involving certain types of personal data and our agreements with certain customers require us to notify them in the event of a security incident. Evolving regulations regarding personal data and personal information, in the European Union and elsewhere, including, but not limited to, the General Data Protection Regulation, and the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, especially relating to classification of IP addresses, machine identification, location data and other information, may limit or inhibit our ability to operate or expand our business. Such laws and regulations require or may require us or our customers to implement privacy and security policies, permit consumers to access, correct or delete personal information stored or maintained by us or our customers, inform individuals of security incidents that affect their personal information, and, in some cases, obtain consent to use personal information for specified purposes. We believe that we take reasonable steps to protect the security, integrity and confidentiality of the information we collect, use, store, and disclose, and we take steps to strengthen our security protocols and infrastructure, however, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance, or other disruptions. We also could be negatively impacted by software bugs or other technical malfunctions, as well as employee error or malfeasance. Advanced cyber-attacks can be multi-staged, unfold over time, and utilize a range of attack vectors with military-grade cyber weapons and proven techniques, such as spear phishing and social engineering, leaving organizations and users at high risk of being compromised. Any such access, disclosure, or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, regulatory penalties, a disruption of our operations, damage to our reputation, a loss of confidence in our business, early termination of our contracts and other business losses, indemnification of our customers, liability for stolen assets or information, increased cybersecurity protection and insurance costs, financial penalties, litigation, regulatory investigations and other significant liabilities, any of which could materially harm our business any of which could adversely affect our business, revenues, and competitive position. Our success depends, in part, on the capacity, reliability, and security of our information technology hardware and software infrastructure, as well as our ability to adapt and expand our infrastructure. The capacity, reliability, and security of our information technology hardware and software infrastructure are important to the operation of our current business, which would suffer in the event of system failures. Likewise, our ability to expand and update our information technology infrastructure in response to our growth and changing needs is important to the continued implementation of our new service offering initiatives. Our inability to expand or upgrade our technology infrastructure could have adverse consequences, including the delayed provision of services or implementation of new service offerings, and the diversion of development resources. We rely on third parties for various aspects of our hardware and software infrastructure. Third parties may experience errors or disruptions that could adversely impact us and over which we may have limited control. Interruption and/or failure of any of these systems could disrupt our operations and damage our reputation, thus adversely impacting our ability to provide our products and services, retain our current users, and attract new users. In addition, our information technology hardware and software infrastructure may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses, or other events that could have a security impact. If one or more of such events occur, our customer and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our information technology hardware and software infrastructure, or otherwise, could be compromised, which could result in significant losses or reputational damage. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses, any of which could substantially harm our business and our results of operations. 10 We are dependent on third parties to, among other things, maintain our servers, provide the bandwidth necessary to transmit content, and utilize the content derived therefrom for the potential generation of revenues. We depend on third-party service providers, suppliers, and licensors to supply some of the services, hardware, software, and operational support necessary to provide some of our products and services. Some of these third parties do not have a long operating history or may not be able to continue to supply the equipment and services we desire in the future. If demand exceeds these vendors capacity, or if these vendors experience operating or financial difficulties or are otherwise unable to provide the equipment or services we need in a timely manner, at our specifications and at reasonable prices, our ability to provide some products and services might be materially adversely affected, or the need to procure or develop alternative sources of the affected materials or services might delay our ability to serve our users. These events could materially and adversely affect our ability to retain and attract users, and have a material negative impact on our operations, business, financial results, and financial condition. We may not be able to find suitable software developers at an acceptable cost. We currently rely on certain key suppliers and vendors in the coding and maintenance of our software. We will continue to require such expertise in the future. Due to the current demand for skilled software developers, we run the risk of not being able to find or retain suitable and qualified personnel at an acceptable price, or at all. Without these developers, we may not be able to further develop and maintain our software, which is the most important aspect of our business development. The success of our business is highly correlated to general economic conditions. Demand for our products and services is highly correlated with general economic conditions, as a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from discretionary spending by individuals, which typically declines during times of economic instability. Declines in economic conditions in the United States or in other countries in which we operate, including declines as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, and may operate in the future may adversely impact our financial results. Because such declines in demand are difficult to predict, we or our industry may have increased excess capacity as a result. An increase in excess capacity may result in declines in prices for our products and services. Our ability to grow or maintain our business may be adversely affected by sustained economic weakness and uncertainty, including the effect of wavering consumer confidence, high unemployment, and other factors. The inability to grow or maintain our business would adversely affect our business, financial conditions, and results of operations, and thereby an investment in our common stock. Our failure to adequately protect our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our products, weaken our competitive position and reduce our revenue, and infringement claims asserted against us or by us, could have a material adverse effect. We regard the protection of our intellectual property, which includes patents, trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks and domain names, as critical to our success. We strive to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on federal, state and common law rights, as well as contractual restrictions. We enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, and confidentiality agreements with parties with whom we conduct business in order to limit access to, and disclosure and use of, our proprietary information. However, these contractual arrangements and the other steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent the misappropriation of our proprietary information or deter independent development of similar technologies by others. 11 We have two patents related to our system for providing access to, storing and distributing content, and we recently filed a provisional patent application with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (PTO), with respect to our interactive video technology. We have one patent related to methods for generating a custom campaign, and one continuation with respect to the same. Our provisional patent application may not result in the issuance of a patent, or certain claims may be rejected or may need to be narrowed, which may limit the protection we are attempting to obtain. In addition, our existing patents and any future patents that may be issued to us, may not protect commercially important aspects of our technology. Furthermore, the validity and enforceability of our patents may be challenged by third parties, which may result in our patents being invalidated or modified by the PTO, various legal actions against us, the need to develop or obtain alternative technology, and/or obtain appropriate licenses under third party patents, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We have registered domain names and trademarks in the United States and may also pursue additional registrations both in and outside the United States. Effective trade secret, copyright, trademark, domain name and patent protection is expensive to develop and maintain, both in terms of initial and ongoing registration requirements and the costs of defending our rights. We may be required to protect our intellectual property in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and may not be successful or which we may not pursue in every location. Monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and costly. Our efforts to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property. Further, we may not be able to detect unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. In addition, our competitors may independently develop similar technology. The laws in the United States and elsewhere change rapidly, and any future changes could adversely affect us and our intellectual property. Our failure to meaningfully protect our intellectual property could result in competitors offering services that incorporate our most technologically advanced features, which could seriously reduce demand for our products. In addition, we may in the future need to initiate infringement claims or litigation. Litigation, whether we are a plaintiff or a defendant, can be expensive, time-consuming and may divert the efforts of our technical staff and managerial personnel, which could harm our business, whether or not such litigation results in a determination that is unfavorable to us. In addition, litigation is inherently uncertain, and thus we may not be able to stop its competitors from infringing upon our intellectual property rights. Natural disasters and other events beyond our control could materially adversely affect us. Natural disasters or other catastrophic events may cause damage or disruption to our operations, international commerce and the global economy, and thus could have a strong negative effect on us. Our business operations are subject to interruption by natural disasters, fire, power shortages, pandemics and other events beyond our control. Although we maintain crisis management and disaster response plans, such events could make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver our services to our customers and could decrease demand for our services. Our future success depends on our key executive officers and our ability to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. Our future success largely depends upon the continued services of our executive officers and management team, especially our Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of our board of directors, and President, Mr. Rory J. Cutaia. If one or more of our executive officers are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them readily, if at all. Additionally, we may incur additional expenses to recruit and retain new executive officers. If any of our executive officers joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose some or all of our customers. Finally, we do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our executive officers. Because of these factors, the loss of the services of any of these key persons could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations, and thereby an investment in our stock. 12 Our continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel will also be critical to our success because we will need to hire and retain additional personnel as our business grows. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain highly qualified personnel. We face significant competition for skilled personnel in our industries. This competition may make it more difficult and expensive to attract, hire, and retain qualified managers and employees. Because of these factors, we may not be able to effectively manage or grow our business, which could adversely affect our financial condition or business. As a result, the value of your investment could be significantly reduced or completely lost. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Securities Raising additional capital, including through future sales and issuances of our common stock, warrants or the exercise of rights to purchase common stock pursuant to our equity incentive plan could result in additional dilution of the percentage ownership of our stockholders, could cause our share price to fall and could restrict our operations . We expect that significant additional capital will be needed in the future to continue our planned operations, including any potential acquisitions, hiring new personnel and continuing activities as an operating public company. To the extent we seek additional capital through a combination of public and private equity offerings and debt financings, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership interest of our existing stockholders may be diluted, and the terms may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of our stockholders. Debt and receivables financings may be coupled with an equity component, such as warrants to purchase shares of our common stock, which could also result in dilution of our existing stockholders ownership. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased fixed payment obligations and could also result in certain restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional debt and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. A failure to obtain adequate funds may cause us to curtail certain operational activities, including sales and marketing, in order to reduce costs and sustain the business, and would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In addition, we have granted options to purchase shares of our common stock pursuant to our equity incentive plans and have registered 16,000,000 shares of common stock underlying options and shares granted pursuant to our equity incentive plans. Sales of shares issued upon exercise of options granted under our equity compensation plans may result in material dilution to our existing stockholders, which could cause our price of our common stock to fall. Our issuance of additional shares of preferred stock could adversely affect the market value of our common stock, dilute the voting power of common stockholders and delay or prevent a change of control. Our board of directors have the authority to cause us to issue, without any further vote or action by the stockholders, up to an additional 14,994,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series, to designate the number of shares constituting any series, and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions thereof, including dividend rights, voting rights, rights and terms of redemption, redemption price or prices and liquidation preferences of such series. As of March 26, 2021, we had 1,706 shares of preferred stock outstanding that are convertible into 1,550,909 shares of common stock. The issuance of shares of preferred stock with dividend or conversion rights, liquidation preferences or other economic terms favorable to the holders of preferred stock could adversely affect the market price for our common stock by making an investment in the common stock less attractive. For example, investors in the common stock may not wish to purchase common stock at a price above the conversion price of a series of convertible preferred stock because the holders of the preferred stock would effectively be entitled to purchase common stock at the lower conversion price causing economic dilution to the holders of common stock. 13 Further, the issuance of shares of preferred stock with voting rights may adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our other classes of voting stock either by diluting the voting power of our other classes of voting stock if they vote together as a single class, or by giving the holders of any such preferred stock the right to block an action on which they have a separate class vote even if the action were approved by the holders of our other classes of voting stock. The issuance of shares of preferred stock may also have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company without further action by the stockholders, even where stockholders are offered a premium for their shares. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, subject to substantial volatility. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including; volatility in the trading markets generally and in our particular market segment; limited trading of our common stock; actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations; the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in those projections, or our failure to meet those projections; announcements regarding our business or the business of our customers or competitors; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidelines, interpretations, or principles; actual or anticipated developments in our business or our competitors businesses or the competitive landscape generally; developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or our offerings, or third-party proprietary rights; announced or completed acquisitions of businesses or technologies by us or our competitors; new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; any major change in our board of directors or management; sales of shares of our common stock by us or by our stockholders; lawsuits threatened or filed against us; and other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism, pandemics (such as the COVID-19 pandemic) or responses to these events. Statements of, or changes in, opinions, ratings, or earnings estimates made by brokerage firms or industry analysts relating to the markets in which we operate or expect to operate could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market as a whole, as well as our particular market segment, has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which may affect the market price for the securities of many companies, and which often have appeared unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. Any of these factors could negatively affect our stockholders ability to sell their shares of common stock at the time and price they desire. 14 A decline in the price of our common stock could affect our ability to raise further working capital, which could adversely impact our ability to continue operations. A prolonged decline in the price of our common stock could result in a reduction in the liquidity of our common stock and a reduction in our ability to raise capital. We may attempt to acquire a significant portion of the funds we need in order to conduct our planned operations through the sale of equity securities; thus, a decline in the price of our common stock could be detrimental to our liquidity and our operations because the decline may adversely affect investors desire to invest in our securities. If we are unable to raise the funds we require for all of our planned operations, we may be forced to reallocate funds from other planned uses and may suffer a significant negative effect on our business plan and operations, including our ability to develop new products or services and continue our current operations. As a result, our business may suffer, and we may be forced to reduce or discontinue operations. We also might not be able to meet our financial obligations if we cannot raise enough funds through the sale of our common stock and we may be forced to reduce or discontinue operations. Because we do not intend to pay any cash dividends on our shares of common stock in the near future, our stockholders will not be able to receive a return on their shares unless and until they sell them. We intend to retain a significant portion of any future earnings to finance the development, operation and expansion of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the near future. The declaration, payment, and amount of any future dividends will be made at the discretion of our board of directors, and will depend upon, among other things, the results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition, operating and capital requirements, and other factors as our board of directors considers relevant. There is no assurance that future dividends will be paid, and, if dividends are paid, there is no assurance with respect to the amount of any such dividend. Unless our board of directors determines to pay dividends, our stockholders will be required to look to appreciation of our common stock to realize a gain on their investment. There can be no assurance that this appreciation will occur. Because our directors and executive officers are among our largest stockholders, they can exert significant control over our business and affairs and have actual or potential interests that may depart from those of investors. Certain of our executive officers and directors own a significant percentage of our outstanding capital stock. We estimate our executive officers and directors and their respective affiliates beneficially owned approximately 10.1% of our outstanding voting stock as of March 26, 2021. The holdings of our directors and executive officers may increase further in the future upon vesting or other maturation of exercise rights under any of the options or warrants they may hold or in the future be granted, or if they otherwise acquire additional shares of our common stock. The interests of such persons may differ from the interests of our other stockholders. As a result, in addition to their board seats and offices, such persons will have significant influence and control over all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, irrespective of how our other stockholders may vote, including the following actions: to elect or defeat the election of our directors; to amend or prevent amendment to our articles of incorporation or bylaws; to effect or prevent a merger, sale of assets or other corporate transaction; and to control the outcome of any other matter submitted to our stockholders for a vote. This concentration of ownership by itself may have the effect of impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover, or other business consolidation, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which in turn could reduce our stock price or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over our stock price. 15 Our common stock has been categorized as penny stock, which may make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares of common stock due to suitability requirements. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define a penny stock to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined) less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our securities are covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. The term accredited investor refers generally to institutions with assets in excess of $5,000,000 or individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 jointly with their spouse. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document in a form prepared by the SEC that provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customers account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customers confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchasers written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for the stock that is subject to these penny stock rules. Consequently, these penny stock rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to trade our securities. We believe that the penny stock rules discourage investor interest in and limit the marketability of our common stock. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. has adopted sales practice requirements that historically may have limited a stockholders ability to buy and sell our common stock, which could depress the price of our common stock. In addition to the penny stock rules described above, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) has adopted rules that require that, in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low-priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customers financial status, tax status, investment objectives, and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, FINRA believes that there is a high probability that speculative low-priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. Thus, the FINRA requirements historically has made it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which could limit your ability to buy and sell our common stock, have an adverse effect on the market for our shares, and thereby depress our price per share of common stock. The elimination of monetary liability against our directors, officers, and employees under Nevada law and the existence of indemnification rights for our obligations to our directors, officers, and employees may result in substantial expenditures by us and may discourage lawsuits against our directors, officers, and employees. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions permitting us to eliminate the personal liability of our directors and officers to us and our stockholders for damages for the breach of a fiduciary duty as a director or officer to the extent provided by Nevada law. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and officers to provide such indemnification rights. We may also have contractual indemnification obligations under any future employment agreements with our officers. The foregoing indemnification obligations could result in us incurring substantial expenditures to cover the cost of settlement or damage awards against directors and officers, which we may be unable to recoup. These provisions and the resulting costs may also discourage us from bringing a lawsuit against directors and officers for breaches of their fiduciary duties and may similarly discourage the filing of derivative litigation by our stockholders against our directors and officers even though such actions, if successful, might otherwise benefit us and our stockholders. 16 Anti-takeover effects of certain provisions of Nevada state law hinder a potential takeover of us. Nevada has a business combination law that prohibits certain business combinations between Nevada corporations and interested stockholders for three years after an interested stockholder first becomes an interested stockholder, unless the corporations board of directors approves the combination in advance. For purposes of Nevada law, an interested stockholder is any person who is (i) the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of ten percent or more of the voting power of the outstanding voting shares of the corporation or (ii) an affiliate or associate of the corporation and at any time within the three previous years was the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of ten percent or more of the voting power of the then-outstanding shares of the corporation. The definition of the term business combination is sufficiently broad to cover virtually any kind of transaction that would allow a potential acquirer to use the corporations assets to finance the acquisition or otherwise to benefit its own interests rather than the interests of the corporation and its other stockholders. The potential effect of Nevadas business combination law is to discourage parties interested in taking control of us from doing so if these parties cannot obtain the approval of our board of directors. Both of these provisions could limit the price investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our bylaws contain an exclusive forum provision, which could limit our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents. Our bylaws provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the state and federal courts in the State of Nevada shall be the exclusive forum for any litigation relating to our internal affairs, including, without limitation: (a) any derivative action brought on behalf of us, (b) any action asserting a claim for breach of fiduciary duty to us or our stockholders by any current or former officer, director, employee, or agent of us, or (c) any action against us or any current or former officer, director, employee, or agent of us arising pursuant to any provision of the Nevada Revised Statutes, the articles of incorporation, or the bylaws. For the avoidance of doubt, the exclusive forum provision described above does not apply to any claims arising under the Securities Act or Exchange Act. Section 27 of the Exchange Act creates exclusive federal jurisdiction over all suits brought to enforce any duty or liability created by the Exchange Act or the rules and regulations thereunder, and Section 22 of the Securities Act creates concurrent jurisdiction for federal and state courts over all suits brought to enforce any duty or liability created by the Securities Act or the rules and regulations thereunder. The choice of forum provision in our bylaws may limit our stockholders ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that they find favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers, employees and agents even though an action, if successful, might benefit our stockholders. The applicable courts may also reach different judgments or results than would other courts, including courts where a stockholder considering an action may be located or would otherwise choose to bring the action, and such judgments or results may be more favorable to us than to our stockholders. With respect to the provision making the state and federal courts in the State of Nevada the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions, stockholders who do bring a claim in the state and federal courts in the State of Nevada could face additional litigation costs in pursuing any such claim, particularly if they do not reside in or near Nevada. Finally, if a court were to find this provision of our bylaws inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could have a material adverse effect on us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Our California office is approximately 6,700 square feet and is located at 2210 Newport Blvd., Suite 200, Newport Beach, California 92663. Our office houses our executive and administrative operations under an operating lease that expires on May 31, 2027 for monthly rent of approximately $35,000. We believe that our facility is sufficient to meet our current needs and that suitable additional space will be available as and when needed. On April 12, 2019, the Company acquired four office and warehouse leases in American Fork, Utah related to the operation of Verb Direct with an aggregate lease payment of $31,000 per month. The lessor of the office and warehouse area is JMCC Properties, which is an entity owned and controlled by the former shareholders and certain current officers of Verb Direct. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS For a discussion of our legal proceedings, refer to Note 19 Commitments and Contingencies , in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements of this Annual Report. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 17 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Market Information Our common stock trades on The NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol VERB. Holders of Common Stock As of March 26, 2021, there were approximately 104 holders of record of our common stock. These holders of record include depositories that hold shares of stock for brokerage firms which, in turn, hold shares of stock for numerous beneficial owners. Dividends We have never declared or paid dividends. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future, but currently intend to retain any future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. The payment of dividends if any, on our common stock will rest solely within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend, among other things, upon our earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, and other relevant factors. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities During our fiscal year ended December 31, 2020, all sales of equity securities that were not registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, were previously reported in a Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or in a Current Report on Form 8-K. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers None. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Not applicable. ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our results of operations and financial condition for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes and the other financial information that are included elsewhere in this Annual Report. This discussion includes forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties, such as our plans, objectives, expectations, and intentions. The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties such as our plans, estimates, and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements below. Factors that could cause or contribute to those differences in our actual results include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and those discussed elsewhere within this Annual Report, particularly in the section entitled Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and the Item entitled Risk Factors. Overview We are a Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) applications platform developer. Our platform is comprised of a suite of interactive video-based sales enablement business software products marketed on a subscription basis. Our applications, available in both mobile and desktop versions, are offered as a fully integrated suite, as well as on a standalone basis, and include verbCRM, our white-labelled Customer Relationship Management (CRM) application for large sales-based enterprises; verbTEAMS, our CRM application for small-and medium-sized businesses and solopreneurs; verbLEARN, our Learning Management System application, and verbLIVE, our Live Stream eCommerce application. 18 Our Technology Our suite of applications can be distinguished from other sales enablement applications because our applications utilize our proprietary interactive video technology as the primary means of communication between sales and marketing professionals and their customers and prospects. Moreover, the proprietary data collection and analytics capabilities of our applications inform our users on their devices in real time , when and for how long their prospects have watched a video, how many times such prospects watched it, and what they clicked on, which allows our users to focus their time and efforts on hot leads or interested prospects rather than on those that have not seen such video or otherwise expressed interest in such content. Users can create their hot lead lists by using familiar, intuitive swipe left/swipe right on-screen navigation. Our clients report that these capabilities provide for a much more efficient and effective sales process, resulting in increased sales conversion rates. We developed the proprietary patent-pending interactive video technology, as well as several other patent-issued and patent-pending technologies that serve as the unique foundation for all our platform applications. Our Products verbCRM combines the capabilities of CRM lead-generation, content management, and in-video ecommerce capabilities in an intuitive, yet powerful tool for both inexperienced as well as highly skilled sales professionals. verbCRM allows users to quickly and easily create, distribute, and post videos to which they can add a choice of on-screen clickable icons which, when clicked, allow viewers to respond to the users call-to-action in real-time, in the video, while the video is playing, without leaving or stopping the video. For example, our technology allows a prospect or customer to click on a product they see featured in a video and impulse buy it, or to click on a calendar icon in the video to make an appointment with a salesperson, among many other novel features and functionalities designed to eliminate or reduce friction from the sales process for our users. The verbCRM app is designed to be easy to use and navigate, and takes little time and training for a user to begin using the app effectively. It usually takes less than four minutes for a novice user to create an interactive video from our app. Users can add interactive icons to pre-existing videos, as well as to newly created videos shot with practically any mobile device. verbCRM interactive videos can be distributed via email, text messaging, chat app, or posted to popular social media directly and easily from our app. No software download is required to view Verb interactive videos on virtually any mobile or desktop device, including smart TVs. verbLEARN is an interactive, video-based learning management system that incorporates all of the clickable in-video technology featured in our verbCRM application and adapts them for use by educators for video-based education. verbLEARN is used by enterprises seeking to educate a large sales team or a customer base about new products, or elicit feedback about existing products. It also incorporates Verbs proprietary data collection and analytics capabilities that inform users in real time when and for how long the viewers watched the video, how many times they watched it, and what they clicked on, in addition to adding gamification features that enhance the learning aspects of the application. verbLIVE builds on popular video-based platforms such as Facebook Live, Zoom, WebEx, and Go2Meeting, among others, by adding Verbs proprietary interactive in-video ecommerce capabilities including an in-video Shopify shopping cart integrated for Shopify account holders - to our own live stream video broadcasting application. verbLIVE is a next-generation live stream platform that allows hosts to utilize a variety of novel sales-driving features, including placing interactive icons on-screen that appear on the screens of all viewers, providing in-video click-to-purchase capabilities for products or services featured in the live video broadcast, in real-time, driving friction-free selling. verbLIVE also provides the host with real-time viewer engagement data and interaction analytics. verbLIVE is entirely browser-based, allowing it to function easily and effectively on all devices without requiring the host or the viewers to download software, and is secured through end-to-end encryption. A mobile app-based version of verbLIVE, with enhanced features, is currently in development and is expected to be released in early second quarter of 2021. verbTEAMS is our interactive, video-based CRM for small-and medium-sized businesses and solopreneurs. verbTEAMS also incorporates verbLIVE as a bundled application. verbTEAMS incorporates self-sign-up, self-onboarding, self-configuring, content management system capabilities, user level administrative capabilities, and high-quality analytics capabilities in both mobile and desktop platforms that sync with one another. It also has a built-in one-click sync capability with Salesforce. 19 Verb Partnerships and Integrations We have completed and deployed the integration of verbLIVE into Salesforce and passed their security review process. In recent weeks we launched a joint marketing campaign with Salesforce to introduce the verbLIVE plug-in functionality to current Salesforce users. A verbCRM sync application for Salesforce users is currently being utilized by at least one of our large enterprise clients and the verbLIVE plug-in is now being offered to all Salesforce users on a monthly subscription fee basis. We have completed the integration of verbCRM into systems offered by 17 of the most popular direct sales back-office system providers, such as Direct Scale, Exigo, By Design, Thatcher, Multisoft, Xennsoft, and Party Plan. Direct sales back-office systems provide many of the support functions required for direct sales operations, including payroll, customer genealogy management, statistics, rankings, and earnings, among other direct sales financial tracking capabilities. The integration into these back-office providers, facilitated through our own API development, allows single sign-on convenience for users, as well as enhanced data analytics and reporting capabilities for all users. We believe that our integration into these back-end platforms accelerates the adoption of verbCRM by large direct sales enterprises that rely on these systems and as such, we believe this represents a competitive advantage. We are currently working to introduce an integration of our interactive video technology into Microsoft Outlook followed by a broad-scale launch in early 2021, pursuant to and in accordance with our existing Microsoft partnership agreement. We expect to follow the Microsoft Outlook integration with the integration into other Microsoft Office 365 products. Non-Digital Products and Services Historically, we have also provided certain non-digital services to some of our enterprise clients such as printing and fulfillment services. We designed and printed welcome kits and starter kits for their marketing needs and provided fulfillment services, which consisted of managing the preparation, handling and shipping of our clients custom-branded merchandise they use for marketing purposes at conferences and other events. We also managed the fulfillment of our clients product sample packs that verbCRM users order through the app for automated delivery and tracking to their customers and prospects. However, in May 2020, we executed a contract with Range Printing (Range), a company in the business of providing enterprise class printing, sample assembly, warehousing, packaging, shipping, and fulfillment services. Pursuant to the contract, through an automated process we have established for this purpose, Range will receive orders for samples and merchandise from us as and when we receive them from our clients and users, and print, assemble, store, package and ship such samples and merchandise on our behalf. The Range contract provides for a revenue share arrangement based upon the specific services to be provided by Range that is designed to maintain our relationship with our clients by continuing to service their non-digital needs, while eliminating the labor and overhead costs associated with the provision of such services by us. The transition to Range Printing is now virtually complete. Our Market Our client base consists primarily of multi-national direct sales enterprises to whom we provide white-labeled, client-branded versions of our products. Our clients also include large professional associations, educational institutions, including school districts, auto sales, auto leasing, insurance, real estate, home security, not-for-profits, as well as clients in the health care industry, and the burgeoning CBD industry, among other business sectors. As of March 26, 2021, we provide subscription-based application services to approximately 140 enterprise clients for use in over 60 countries, in over 48 languages, which collectively account for a user base generated through more than 1.9 million downloads of our verbCRM application. Among the new business sectors targeted for this year are pharmaceutical sales, government institutions, small businesses and individual entrepreneurs. 20 Revenue Generation We generate revenue from the following sources: recurring subscription fees paid by enterprise users and affiliates; recurring subscription fees paid by non-enterprise, small business, and individual users; recurring subscription fees paid by users who access in-app purchases of various premium services, features, functionality, and upgrades; recurring subscription fees paid by users who access in-app purchases of third-party software provider apps in our forthcoming app store; recurring subscription fees paid by users of Salesforce and Microsoft among others with whom we have executed partnership agreements, for access to our applications that we either have integrated or intend to integrate into these platforms, including recurring subscription fees paid by users who subscribe to bundled service offerings from these partners and/or their respective value-added resellers; recurring subscription fees paid by users for all of the foregoing products and services generated through our recently launched Japan operations; recurring subscription fees paid by users generated through our forthcoming reseller and affiliate distribution programs; and Fees paid by enterprise clients for non-digital products and services through our Range Printing venture. Recent Developments verbLIVE Marketing and Monetization Strategies Salesforce verbLIVE is available to Salesforce users in the Salesforce App Exchange Marketplace under the Salesforce partner program. For a monthly subscription fee of $24.99 per user per month, every Salesforce user that subscribes will have the ability to click on their contacts icon in their Salesforce dashboard and from the drop-down menu they will see a verbLIVE icon. By clicking that, Salesforce users will be able to launch their own verbLIVE live stream ecommerce session and invite people to participate directly from their Salesforce contacts list. We worked with Salesforce to develop a marketing campaign to promote verbLIVE within the Salesforce ecosystem that launched in October 2020. verbLIVE Pre-Sales As previously disclosed, 17 of our existing clients have signed up for verbLIVE during the pre-launch marketing last quarter. We believe that these corporate clients have a combined potential individual user base of 465,350 users which represent the total addressable market among the existing clients that have already signed on. Historically, our penetration rates among our existing corporate clients vary but on the low end it is approximately 10%. Adopting that 10% rate, we believe that we have the potential to attract 46,000 users to subscribe and pay for verbLIVE. Currently, we charge $9.99 to $14.99 per user per month for verbLIVE depending on the features and package for existing verbCRM users, though at launch, we may charge a lower price, including a free trial period. Applying the lower price of $9.99 per user and a penetration rate of 10% for this analysis, we believe that we could potentially capture approximately $0.5 million of SaaS recurring revenue per month - or approximately $5.5 million of annual recurring revenue. We are encouraged by the fact that many of these prospective users already have our verbCRM app on their mobile device which allows us to send very targeted marketing messages promoting verbLIVE, including video demonstrations explaining what verbLIVE could do for their business. In addition, our platform is already integrated into many of our clients back-office providers making adoption for these clients and users much faster and easier. This is a small part of our internal modeling and should not be interpreted by anyone as a guarantee of performance or results. Notwithstanding the foregoing, which is an example only, our current projected usage models forecast far greater numbers than the 10% penetration rates for our existing signed customers, which we projected earlier this year, and much greater numbers still when we add anticipated adoption rates from the as yet untapped market outside our existing business. 21 For the quarter ended September 30, 2020, we reported that we were working diligently to ramp up capacity before a larger launch to ensure that we do not face service outages from overloaded servers. Notwithstanding these efforts, we may nevertheless experience server overloads as it is difficult to predict the rate of adoption and usage. We have begun final testing on the platform enhancements that have been designed and built to accommodate tens of thousands of simultaneous live streams, logins, viewers, and interactions on a global basis. Upon satisfactory completion of the testing, we will begin satisfying our existing back-log of current verbCRM users as discussed above. We also intend to release a new small business-focused version of our interactive video CRM application, that incorporates verbLIVE which we expect to release before year-end. This new application, called verbTEAMS, is designed to appeal to a larger target market than our verbCRM application as it incorporates self-sign-up, self-onboarding, self-configuring, content management system capabilities, user level administrative capabilities, and high quality analytics capabilities in both mobile and desktop platforms that sync with one another. It also has a built-in one-click synch capability with Salesforce. verbTEAMS is designed for small businesses and entrepreneurs with a feature set we believe is highly scalable and unique in the marketplace, that will be very competitive with the most popular CRM systems available today. SoloFire Acquisition In September 2020 we completed the acquisition of Ascend Certification, LLC, dba SoloFire (SoloFire). SoloFire develops and markets leading SaaS-based sales enablement applications for sales representatives of medical device, diagnostics and life sciences companies. SoloFires platform empowers sales and marketing teams by allowing them to efficiently find, show, share and track regulatory and industry compliant, accurate and up-to-date content. With SoloFire, content can be locally stored, making it accessible without Wi-fi or mobile data, which is often a challenge in hospital environments. The sales tools can be tailored to a companys unique medical products, while creating personalized sales conversations with physicians and other stakeholders. In addition, insights from in-depth analytics capabilities enable sales and marketing teams to identify and replicate the content that most resonates with clients, driving higher conversion rates. We have begun combining VERBs sales enablement solutions, including our interactive video and interactive livestream ecommerce features, with the SoloFire mobile and desktop applications to provide even more powerful tools for this exciting new target market. Impact of COVID-19 on Our Business and Industry In the three months ended June 30, 2021, the COVID-19 pandemic resulted in significant uncertainty and volatility in a wide variety of industries and markets, including in our industry, and prompted many federal, state, local, and foreign governments to implement various lock-down measures in an attempt to contain the spread and mitigate the impact of the disease. The initial implementation of such lock-down measures, and their re-introduction in response to a nation-wide resurgence of COVID-19 cases in late-2020, resulted in business closures, work stoppages, slowdowns and delays, work-from-home policies, travel restrictions and the cancellation or postponement of events. Despite recent approval and initial distribution of vaccines, both the pandemic and the containment and mitigation measures have had, and are likely to continue to have, an adverse impact on the global and U.S. economies, the severity and duration of which are uncertain. It is likely that government stabilization efforts will only partially mitigate the consequences to the economy. As such, both the pandemic and containment and mitigation measures may adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition by, among other things, reducing demand for our applications, impairing the productivity of our workforce, and reducing our access to capital. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will impact our business, financial conditions, and results of operations in the future remains uncertain and will be affected by a number of factors. These include the duration and extent of the pandemic, the duration and extent of imposed or recommended containment and mitigation measures, the extent, duration, and effective execution of government stabilization and recovery efforts, including those from the successful distribution of effective vaccines. The COVID-19 pandemic may have long-term effects on the nature of the office environment and remote working. This may present operational and workplace culture challenges that may adversely affect our business. However, we are committed to our employees returning to the workplace in the long-term. Throughout the year ended December 31, 2020 and through the filing of this Annual Report, we have encouraged safe practices designed to stem the infection and spread of COVID-19 within our workforce and beyond and to maintain the mental health and well-being of our employees. Beginning in March 2020, in an effort to protect our employees and comply with applicable government orders, we restricted non-essential employee travel and transitioned our employees to a remote work environment. We currently expect the majority of our employees will continue working remotely at least through the second quarter of 2021. Our workforce has continued to effectively develop and support our product and service offerings notwithstanding the current environment. We began the year ended December 31, 2020 with healthy demand for our products and services, many of which are designed to enable our customers to manage their businesses virtually. In the three months ended June 30, 2020, we experienced some uncertainty regarding whether there would be variability in demand for the services we provide on our platform after lock-down measures were implemented. We expect demand variability for our products and services may continue as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic; however, our sales team reported a higher level of interest in our products and services during the year ended December 31, 2020. Although the impact has not been material to date, a prolonged downturn in economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our customers and demand for our services. We continue to actively communicate with and listen to our customers to ensure we are responding to their needs in the current environment with innovative solutions that will not only be beneficial now but also over the long-term. We monitor developments related to COVID-19 and remain flexible in our response to the challenges presented by the pandemic. To mitigate the adverse impact COVID-19 may have on our business and operations, we implemented a number of measures in the year ended December 31, 2020 to protect the health and safety of our employees, as well as to strengthen our financial position. These efforts include eliminating, reducing, or deferring non-essential expenditures, as well as complying with local and state government recommendations to protect our workforce. Results of Operations Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2020 compared to the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2019 The following is a comparison of the results of our operations for the year ended December 31, 2020 and 2019. Year Ended December 31, 2020 Year Ended December 31, 2019 Change Revenue SaaS recurring subscription revenue $ 5,114,000 $ 2,815,000 2,299,000 Other digital revenue 1,384,000 1,425,000 (41,000 ) Design, printing, and fulfillment 2,744,000 3,913,000 (1,169,000 ) Shipping 723,000 947,000 (224,000 ) Total revenue 9,965,000 9,100,000 865,000 Cost of Revenue Digital 1,416,000 660,000 756,000 Design, printing, and fulfillment 2,701,000 3,273,000 (572,000 ) Shipping 684,000 937,000 (253,000 ) Total cost of revenue 4,801,000 4,870,000 (69,000 ) Gross margin 5,164,000 4,230,000 934,000 Operating expenses Research and development 7,933,000 4,312,000 3,621,000 Depreciation and amortization 1,510,000 1,042,000 468,000 General and administrative 20,458,000 14,710,000 5,748,000 Total operating expenses 29,901,000 20,064,000 9,837,000 Loss from operations (24,737,000 ) (15,834,000 ) (8,903,000 ) Other income (expense), net Other income (expense) 102,000 (11,000 ) 113,000 Financing costs (248,000 ) (1,625,000 ) 1,377,000 Interest expense - amortization of debt discount (493,000 ) (1,658,000 ) 1,165,000 Change in fair value of derivative liability 574,000 1,862,000 (1,288,000 ) Debt extinguishment, net - 1,536,000 (1,536,000 ) Interest expense (153,000 ) (186,000 ) 33,000 Total other expense, net (218,000 ) (82,000 ) (136,000 ) Income tax provision 1,000 2,000 (1,000 ) Net loss (24,956,000 ) (15,918,000 ) 9,038,000 Deemed dividend to Series A preferred stockholders (3,951,000 ) - (3,951,000 ) Net loss to common stockholders $ (28,907,000 ) $ (15,918,000 ) $ (12,989,000 ) 22 Revenue Total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020 was $10.0 million, compared to $9.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase in revenue is attributed to the addition of new clients and the expansion of existing clients for access to one or more of our suite of software products on our sales enablement platform. Those products now include verbCRM, verbLEARN, verb TEAMS, and verbLIVE. The revenue we derive from these products is divided into two main categories: digital revenue and non-digital revenue. Within the digital revenue category, we have two forms of revenue. The first is SaaS recurring digital revenue based on contract-based subscriptions to our products and platform services. The second is non-SaaS, non-recurring digital revenue which is revenue generated by use of our apps and in-app purchases, such as sampling and other services obtained through the app. Non-digital revenue is revenue we generate from non-app, non-digital sources through ancillary services we provide as an accommodation to our clients and customers. These include printing and shipping services which we now outsource to a strategic partner as part of a cost reduction plan we instituted in 2020. Total digital revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020 was $6.5 million, compared to $4.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. This consisted of SaaS recurring subscription-based revenue associated with our verbCRM, verbLEARN, and verbTEAMS applications of $5.1 million compared to $2.8 million in 2019. There was no revenue for verbLIVE in 2020 as it was launched commercially in 2021. Non-subscription digital revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020 was virtually flat compared to December 31, 2019. Total non-digital revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020 was $3.5 million, compared to $4.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. Total non-digital revenue for 2020 consisted of revenue generated from the design and printing of welcome kits/starter kits that our clients use for new sales reps, fulfillment of various custom products our clients use for marketing purposes and at conferences of $2.7 million; and shipping fees associated with client welcome kits and fulfillment of $723,000. The table below sets forth our quarterly revenues from the quarter ended March 31, 2019 through the quarter ended December 31, 2020, which reflects the trend of revenue since our acquisition of Verb Direct in April 2019: 2019 Quarterly Revenue 2020 Quarterly Revenue Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 SaaS recurring subscription revenue $ 9,000 $ 858,000 $ 953,000 $ 995,000 1,057,000 1,274,000 1,478,000 1,305,000 * Other digital revenue - 596,000 485,000 344,000 400,000 406,000 360,000 218,000 Total digital revenue $ 9,000 $ 1,454,000 $ 1,438,000 $ 1,339,000 1,457,000 1,680,000 1,838,000 1,523,000 Design, printing, and fulfillment - 1,784,000 1,164,000 965,000 728,000 713,000 836,000 467,000 Shipping - 495,000 271,000 181,000 169,000 259,000 186,000 109,000 Total non-digital revenue $ - $ 2,279,000 $ 1,435,000 $ 1,146,000 897,000 972,000 1,022,000 576,000 Grand total $ 9,000 $ 3,733,000 $ 2,873,000 $ 2,485,000 2,354,000 2,652,000 2,860,000 2,099,000 * The decrease in digital revenue is primarily attributed to the impact of COVID-19 on many of our customers, which magnified what is traditionally a business slowdown during holiday season. We also experienced an unusual loss of several customers which had a direct impact on our 4th quarter recurring revenue. Notably, however, as the year drew to a close, as of December 31, 2020, we had begun to see a meaningful uptick and return to more normalized business and sales activity with 14 new clients under contract that will launch in 2021, at which time we will recognize that revenue. Overall, we signed 62 new clients in 2020, representing approximately $3.0 million of minimum contract value. Cost of Revenue Total cost of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020 was $4.8 million, compared to $4.9 million for 2019. The decrease in cost of revenue is primarily attributed by lower non-digital revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020 versus December 31, 2019 offset by an increase in digital cost of revenue attributed to additional enterprise customers on the platform and increased users within our existing customer base. 23 Gross Margin The shift in resources to our SaaS recurring subscription revenue reflects an increase in gross margin to 52% for the year ended December 31, 2020 versus 46% for the year ended December 31, 2019. The shift had a material impact on as gross margin increased $934,000, while gross revenue increased $865,000 for the year ended December 31, 2020 versus December 31, 2019. Operating Expenses Research and development expenses were $7.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, as compared to $4.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. Research and development expenses primarily consisted of fees paid to employees and vendors contracted to perform research projects and develop technology. The increase in research and development is attributed the development of verbLIVE, plus enhancements to verbCRM and our core platform to facilitate native integrations with Salesforce, Microsoft, and other channel partners. Depreciation and amortization expenses were $1.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, as compared to $1.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase is associated with an additional three months of amortization in 2020 related to the intangible asset recorded as part of the acquisition of Verb Direct in April 2019, amortization of SoloFire intangible assets, and amortization of leasehold improvements related to our California office. General and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2020 were $20.5 million, as compared to $14.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase in general and administrative expenses is primarily related to general and administration expenses attributed to an increase in stock compensation expense of $1.9 million, an additional quarter of operations in 2020 for Verb Direct of $1.1 million, expenses from SoloFire of $809,000 primarily driven by retention bonuses, plus increases to support growth driven by labor related costs of $697,000, professional services of $631,000, marketing and promotion of $493,000, and increased facility costs associated with our California office of $175,000. Other income (expense), net, for the year ended December 31, 2020 was ($218,000), which was attributed to interest expense for amortization of debt discount of ($493,000), financing costs of ($248,000), and interest expense of ($153,000), offset by a change in the fair value of derivative liability of $574,000 and other income (expense), net of $102,000. Other income (expense), net, for the year ended December 31, 2019 was ($82,000), which was attributed to interest expense for amortization of debt discount of ($1.7) million, financing costs of ($1.6) million, interest expense of ($186,000), other income (expense), net of ($11,000), offset by a change in the fair value of derivative liability of $1.9 million, and debt extinguishment of $1.5 million. 24 Use of Non-GAAP Measures - Modified EBITDA In addition to our results under generally accepted accounted principles (GAAP), we present Modified EBITDA as a supplemental measure of our performance. However, Modified EBITDA is not a recognized measurement under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to net income, income from operations or any other performance measure derived in accordance with GAAP or as an alternative to cash flow from operating activities as a measure of liquidity. We define Modified EBITDA as net income (loss), plus interest expense, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation, financing costs and changes in fair value of derivative liability. Management considers our core operating performance to be that which our managers can affect in any particular period through their management of the resources that affect our underlying revenue and profit generating operations that period. Non-GAAP adjustments to our results prepared in accordance with GAAP are itemized below. You are encouraged to evaluate these adjustments and the reasons we consider them appropriate for supplemental analysis. In evaluating Modified EBITDA, you should be aware that in the future we may incur expenses that are the same as or similar to some of the adjustments in this presentation. Our presentation of Modified EBITDA should not be construed as an inference that our future results will be unaffected by unusual or non-recurring items. Year Ended December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 Net loss $ (24,956,000 ) $ (15,918,000 ) Adjustments Other expense (102,000 ) 11,000 Stock compensation expense 6,119,000 4,178,000 Financing costs 248,000 1,625,000 Amortization of debt discount 493,000 1,658,000 Change in fair value of derivative liability (574,000 ) (1,862,000 ) Debt extinguishment, net - (1,536,000 ) Interest expense 153,000 186,000 Depreciation and amortization 1,510,000 1,042,000 Income tax provision 1,000 2,000 Total EBITDA adjustments 7,848,000 5,304,000 Modified EBITDA $ (17,108,000 ) $ (10,614,000 ) The $6.5 million decrease in modified EBITDA for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to the same period in 2019, resulted from increased research and development, expenses related to SoloFire primarily driven by retention bonuses, an increase in professional services primarily attributed to the acquisition of SoloFire, labor related costs to support growth, marketing and promotion, increased facility costs associated with our California office, and twelve months of Verb Direct general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2020 versus the nine months of Verb Direct results in 2019, offset by an increase in gross margin. We present Modified EBITDA because we believe it assists investors and analysts in comparing our performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that we do not believe are indicative of our core operating performance. In addition, we use Modified EBITDA in developing our internal budgets, forecasts and strategic plan; in analyzing the effectiveness of our business strategies in evaluating potential acquisitions; and in making compensation decisions and in communications with our board of directors concerning our financial performance. Modified EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool, which includes, among others, the following: Modified EBITDA does not reflect our cash expenditures, or future requirements, for capital expenditures or contractual commitments; Modified EBITDA does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs; Modified EBITDA does not reflect future interest expense, or the cash requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments, on our debts; and Although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized will often have to be replaced in the future, and Modified EBITDA does not reflect any cash requirements for such replacements. 25 Liquidity and Capital Resources Going Concern We have incurred operating losses and negative cash flows from operations since inception. We incurred a net loss of $24,956,000 during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020. We also utilized cash in operations of $16,294,000 during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020. As a result, our continuation as a going concern is dependent on our ability to obtain additional financing until we can generate sufficient cash flows from operations to meet our obligations. We intend to continue to seek additional debt or equity financing to continue our operations. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, which implies we may not continue to meet our obligations and continue our operations for the next twelve months. Our continuation as a going concern is dependent upon our ability to obtain necessary debt or equity financing to continue operations until we begin generating positive cash flow. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm, in its report on our December 31, 2020 consolidated financial statements, has raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. There is no assurance that we will ever be profitable or that debt or equity financing will be available to us in the amounts, on terms, and at times deemed acceptable to us, if at all. The issuance of additional equity securities by us would result in a significant dilution in the equity interests of our current stockholders. Obtaining commercial loans, assuming those loans would be available, would increase our liabilities and future cash commitments. If we are unable to obtain financing in the amounts and on terms deemed acceptable to us, we may be unable to continue our business, as planned, and as a result may be required to scale back or cease operations for our business, the results of which would be that our stockholders would lose some or all of their investment. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability and classification of assets or the amounts and classifications of liabilities that may result should we be unable to continue as a going concern. Overview As of December 31, 2020, we had cash of $1,815,000. We estimate our operating expenses for the next twelve months may continue to exceed any revenue we generate, and we may need to raise capital through either debt or equity offerings to continue operations. Due to market conditions and the early stage of our operations, there is considerable risk that we will not be able to raise such financings at all, or on terms that are not dilutive to our existing stockholders. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to raise such funds. If we are unable to raise the funds we require for all of our planned operations, we may be forced to reallocate funds from other planned uses and may suffer a significant negative effect on our business plan and operations, including our ability to develop new products and continue our current operations. As a result, our business may suffer, and we may be forced to reduce or discontinue operations. In April 2019, we closed our public offering that provided us with gross proceeds of approximately $20,500,000 before deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and other estimated offering expenses payable by us. The proceeds were used to pay the $15,000,000 cash portion of the acquisition price for Sound Concepts (now, Verb Direct), pay principal and interest amounts outstanding under convertible debt in the amount of $2,025,000, pay commissions and other offering expenses related to the public offering in the amount of $2,100,000, and pay other operating expenses. On August 14, 2019, we entered into a purchase agreement with investors, pursuant to which we agreed to issue and sell up to an aggregate of 6,000 shares of our Series A Preferred Stock and the warrants to purchase an aggregate of up to 3.87 million shares of common stock (an amount equivalent to the number of shares of common stock into which the Series A Preferred Stock is initially convertible). Each share of Series A Preferred Stock is convertible, at any time and from time to time from and after the issuance date, at the holders option into that number of shares of common stock equal to the stated value per share (or $1,000) divided by the conversion price (initially, $1.55); thus, initially, each share of Series A Preferred Stock is convertible into approximately 645 shares of common stock. The warrants have an initial exercise price of $1.88 per share, subject to customary adjustments, are exercisable from and after six months after the date of issuance, and will expire five years from the date of issuance. We closed the offering on August 14, 2019, and issued 5,030 shares of Series A Preferred Stock and issued warrants to purchase up to 3,245,162 shares of common stock in connection therewith. We received gross proceeds equal to $5,030,000 On February 5, 2020, we initiated our private placement, which is for the sale and issuance of up to five million shares of our common stock at a per-share price of $1.20, which amount represents a 20% discount to the $1.50 closing price of our common stock on that day, and is memorialized by a subscription agreement. On March 31, 2020 we closed our private placement. In total we issued 4,237,833 shares of common stock and netted $4.4 million after fees and expenses. On April 17, 2020, we received loan proceeds in the amount of approximately $1,218,000 under the Paycheck Protection Program (PPP). The PPP, established as part of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act, provides for loans to qualifying businesses for amounts up to 2.5 times of the average monthly payroll expenses of the qualifying business. The loans and accrued interest are forgivable after eight weeks as long as the borrower uses the loan proceeds for eligible purposes, including payroll, benefits, rent and utilities, and maintains its payroll levels. The amount of loan forgiveness will be reduced if the borrower terminates employees or reduces salaries during the eight-week period. Subsequent to December 31, 2020 the entire note and accrued interest was forgiven. 26 On July 24, 2020, the Company concluded its public offering pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-239055) and issued and sold 12,545,453 shares of common stock (which included 1,636,363 shares of common stock sold pursuant to the exercise by the underwriters of an overallotment option). The net proceeds to the Company, after deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions and direct offering expenses was $12,337,000 On March 15, 2021 the Company completed a registered direct offering with institutional investors for the purchase and sale of 9,375,000 shares of common stock at a purchase price of $1.60 per share. Net proceeds were approximately $14,000,000 The following is a summary of our cash flows from operating, investing, and financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019: Year Ended December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 Cash used in operating activities $ (16,294,000 ) $ (8,118,000 ) Cash used in investing activities (88,000 ) (14,589,000 ) Cash provided by financing activities 17,214,000 23,056,000 Increase in cash $ 832,000 $ 349,000 Cash Flows Operating For the year ended December 31, 2020, our cash flows used in operating activities amounted to $16.3 million, compared to cash used for the year ended December 31, 2019 of $8.1 million. The change is attributed to the growth of the business, product development, inclusion of Verb Direct and SoloFire operating expenses, professional services, and a change in accounts payable, accrued expenses, and accrued interest of ($1.3) million, prepaid expenses of ($474,000) compared to December 31, 2019, offset by an increase in gross margin, a change in accounts receivable of $820,000, deferred revenue and customer deposits of $302,000, compared to December 31, 2019. Cash Flows Investing For the year ended December 31, 2020, our cash flows used from investing activities amounted to $88,000, which was primarily attributed to fixed asset purchases of $317,000, offset by $229,000 of cash acquired from the acquisition of Solofire. For the year ended December 31, 2019, our cash flows used from investing activities amounted to $14.6 million, which was primarily attributed to the net cash paid as part of the acquisition of Verb Direct in April 2019 of $14.4 million, plus fixed asset purchases of $146,000. Cash Flows Financing Our cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2020 amounted to $17.2 million, which represented $16.8 million of net proceeds from the issuance of shares of our common stock, proceeds from warrant exercises of $2.2 million, a paycheck protection program loan of $1.2 million, advances on future receipts of $728,000, and an economic injury disaster loan of $150,000, all offset by ($1.9) million of an acquisition note payable for Solofire, ($1.8) million of payments against advance on future receipts, a ($100,000) principal payment on related party debt. Our cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2019 amounted to $23.0 million, which represented $18.5 million of net proceeds from the issuance of shares of our Common Stock, $4.7 million of net proceeds from the issuance of shares of our Series A Preferred Stock, $1.3 million of proceeds from notes payable, advances on future receipts of $728,000, $432,000 of proceeds from the issuance of convertible debt, $58,000 of unsecured related party debt, and $45,000 of proceeds from warrant exercises, partially offset by ($2.0) million paid in connection with convertible notes outstanding, ($630,000) paid in connection with notes outstanding, and ($58,000) paid in connection with related party notes outstanding, and ($7,000) of payments against advance on future receipts. 27 Notes Payable Related Parties We had the following related parties notes payable as of December 31, 2020: Note Issuance Date Maturity Date Interest Rate Original Borrowing Balance at December 31, 2020 Note (A) December 1, 2015 February 8, 2021 12.0 % $ 1,249,000 $ 725,000 Note (B) December 1, 2015 April 1, 2017 12.0 % 112,000 112,000 Note (C) April 4, 2016 June 4, 2021 12.0 % 343,000 240,000 Total notes payable related parties, net 1,077,000 Non-current - Current $ 1,077,000 (A) On December 1, 2015, we issued a convertible note payable to Rory J. Cutaia, our Chief Executive Officer and then-majority stockholder, to consolidate all loans and advances made by Mr. Cutaia to our company as of that date. The note bears interest at a rate of 12% per annum, is secured by our assets, and will mature on February 8, 2021, as amended. A total of 30% of the original note balance or $375,000 was convertible to common stock and was converted in 2018 while the remaining note balance of $825,000 is not convertible. Subsequent to December 31, 2020 the Company extended the note to February 8, 2023. (B) On December 1, 2015, we issued a note payable to a former member of our board of directors, in the amount of $112,000 representing unpaid consulting fees as of November 30, 2015. The note is unsecured, bears interest rate of 12% per annum, and matured in April 2017. As of December 31, 2020, the outstanding principal balance of the note was equal to $112,000. (C) On April 4, 2016, we issued a convertible note to Mr. Cutaia, in the amount of $343,000, to consolidate all advances made by Mr. Cutaia to our company during the period December 2015 through March 2016. A total of 30% of the original note balance or $103,000 was convertible to common stock and was converted in 2018 while the remaining note balance of $240,000 is not convertible. The note, as amended, bears interest at a rate of 12% per annum, is secured by our assets, and will mature on June 4, 2021. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we recorded total interest expense of $141,000 pursuant to the terms of the notes and paid $100,000 of principal on note (A) and paid $120,000 of interest. Deferred Incentive Compensation Note Issuance Date Maturity Date Balance at December 31, 2020 Rory J. Cutaia (A) December 23, 2019 50% on January 10, 2021 and 50% on January 10, 2022 $ 430,000 Rory J. Cutaia (B) December 23, 2019 50% on January 10, 2021 and 50% on January 10, 2022 324,000 Jeff Clayborne (A) December 23, 2019 50% on January 10, 2021 and 50% on January 10, 2022 125,000 Jeff Clayborne (B) December 23, 2019 50% on January 10, 2021 and 50% on January 10, 2022 163,000 Total deferred compensation payable related parties, net 1,042,000 Non-current (521,000 ) Current $ 521,000 (A) On December 23, 2019, we awarded Rory Cutaia, our Chief Executive Officer and Jeff Clayborne, our Chief Financial Officer annual incentive compensation of $430,000 and $125,000, respectively, for services rendered. We have determined that it is in our best interest and in the best interest of our stockholders to defer payments to Messrs. Cutaia and Clayborne. We will pay 50% of the annual incentive compensation on January 10, 2021 and the remaining 50% on January 10, 2022. Subsequent to December 31, 2020, the Company paid $215,000 of the amount due and will pay the remaining $63,000 during 2021. (B) On December 23, 2019, we awarded Rory Cutaia, our Chief Executive Officer and Jeff Clayborne, our Chief Financial Officer a bonus for the successful up-listing to The NASDAQ Capital Market and the acquisition of Verb Direct totaling $324,000 and $162,000, respectively. We have determined that it is in our best interest and in the best interest of our stockholders to defer payments to Messrs. Cutaia and Clayborne. We will pay 50% of these awards on January 10, 2021 and the remaining 50% on January 10, 2022. Subsequent to December 31, 2020, the Company paid $162,000 of the amount due and will pay the remaining $82,000 during 2021. 28 Advance on Future Receipts We had the following related parties notes payable as of December 31, 2020: Note Issuance Date Maturity Date Interest Rate Original Borrowing Balance at December 31, 2020 Note 3 (A) June 30, 2020 February 25, 2021 10 % $ 506,000 $ 89,000 Note 4 (A) June 30, 2020 February 25, 2021 10 % 506,000 88,000 Total $ 1,012,000 177,000 Debt discount (67,000 ) Net $ 110,000 (A) On June 30, 2019, we received two secured advances from an unaffiliated third party totaling $727,000 for the purchase of future receipts/revenues of $1,012,000 Pursuant to the terms of the agreement the unaffiliated third-party will auto withdraw an aggregate of $6,000 from our operating account each banking day. The term of the agreement extends until the advances are paid in full. We may pay off either note for $446,000 if paid within 30 days of funding; for $465,000 if paid between 31 and 60 days of funding; or for $484,000 if paid within 61 to 90 days of funding. Critical Accounting Policies Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP, which require that we make certain assumptions and estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of net revenue and expenses during each reporting period. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported periods. Significant estimates include valuation of derivative liability, valuation of debt and equity instruments, share-based compensation arrangements and long-lived assets. Amounts could materially change in the future. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company evaluates its financial instruments to determine if such instruments are derivatives or contain features that qualify as embedded derivatives. For derivative financial instruments that are accounted for as liabilities, the derivative instrument is initially recorded at its fair value and is then re-valued at each reporting date, with changes in the fair value reported in the consolidated statements of operations. The classification of derivative instruments, including whether such instruments should be recorded as liabilities or as equity, is evaluated at the end of each reporting period. Derivative instrument liabilities are classified in the balance sheet as current or non-current based on whether or not net-cash settlement of the derivative instrument could be required within 12 months of the balance sheet date. We use Level 2 inputs for our valuation methodology for the derivative liabilities as their fair values were determined by using a Binomial pricing model. Our derivative liabilities are adjusted to reflect fair value at each period end, with any increase or decrease in the fair value being recorded in results of operations as adjustments to fair value of derivatives. 29 Share Based Payment We issue stock options, common stock, and equity interests as share-based compensation to employees and non-employees. We account for our share-based compensation to employees in accordance with FASB ASC 718 Compensation Stock Compensation. Stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date, based on the estimated fair value of the award, and is recognized as expense over the requisite service period. We value stock compensation based on the market price on the measurement date. We value stock options using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. Assumptions used in the Black-Scholes model to value options issued during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 are as follows: Year Ended Year Ended December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 Expected life in years 3.0, 4.0 and 5.0 1.0, 2.0 and 5.0 Stock price volatility 255%-271 % 180%-414 % Risk free interest rate 0.17-0.39 % 1.51-2.75 % Expected dividends 0 % 0 % Forfeiture rate 21.2 21.3 % 22.48 % The risk-free interest rate was based on rates established by the Federal Reserve Bank. We use the historical volatility of our common stock to estimate the future volatility for our common stock. The expected dividend yield was based on the fact that we have not customarily paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends in the future. 30 Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements For a summary of our recent accounting policies, please refer to Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to Financial Statements commencing on page F-10 of this Annual Report for managements discussion as to the impact of recent accounting pronouncements.