Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of this Form 10-Q. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as may, will, should, could, predicts, potential, continue, expects, anticipates, future, intends, plans, believes, estimates, and similar expressions. These forward-looking statements involve certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, levels of activity, performance, achievements, and events to differ materially from those implied by such forward-looking statements, including but not limited to those discussed in this report under the section entitled Risk Factors and elsewhere, and in other reports we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), specifically the most recent Form 10-K for fiscal 2020 (the 2020 Form 10-K) and in other reports we file with the SEC, each as it may be amended from time to time. These forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We reserve the right to update these forward-looking statements for any reason, including the occurrence of material events, but assume no duty to update these statements to reflect subsequent events. ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates during the first quarter of fiscal 2021. For a complete discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates, refer to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of the 2020 Form 10-K. 17 Table of Content s RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS For a summary of recent accounting pronouncements applicable to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, refer to Note 1 Overview and Accounting Policies of this Form 10-Q. EXECUTIVE LEVEL OVERVIEW We are a leading provider of technology solutions that enable professionals and field mobile workers to improve or transform their work processes. Our comprehensive work process solutions are used across a range of industries including architecture, building construction, civil engineering, geospatial, survey and mapping, agriculture, natural resources, utilities, transportation, and government. Our representative customers include construction owners, contractors, engineering and construction firms, surveying companies, farmers and agricultural companies, energy and utility companies, trucking companies, and state, federal, and municipal governments. Our growth strategy is centered on multiple elements: Executing on our Connect and Scale 2025 strategy; Focus on attractive markets with significant growth and profitability potential; Domain knowledge and technological innovation that benefit a diverse customer base; Increasing focus on software and services; Geographic expansion with localization strategy; Optimized go-to-market strategies to best access our markets; and Strategic acquisitions. Our focus on these growth drivers has led over time to growth in revenue and profitability and an increasingly diversified business model. We continue to experience a shift in revenue towards a more significant mix of software, recurring revenue, and services, which represented 56% of total revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2021 and is leading to improved visibility in our businesses. Additionally, our success in driving annualized recurring revenue (ARR) (1) growth of 9% year-over-year for fiscal 2021 has positively impacted our revenue mix and growth over time. As our solutions have expanded, our go-to-market model has also evolved with a balanced mix between direct, distribution, and OEM customers as well as an increasing number of enterprise level customer relationships. We continue to experience strong demand for our hardware and associated software offerings. However, due to global supply chain issues including part shortages, increased freight costs, and labor constraints caused by the lingering impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, we are experiencing extended delivery times for key components of our hardware products and increased costs. To the extent that these supply chain issues continue to exist, our costs will increase, and we may experience delays in shipping our products, which may reduce our revenue. (1) Refer to Supplemental Disclosure of Annualized Recurring Revenue and Non-GAAP Financial Measures section of this Form 10-Q for definition. COVID-19 UPDATE For a discussion of the impacts on and risks to our business from COVID-19, refer to Risk Factors section of the 2020 Form 10-K. 18 Table of Content s RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview The following table shows revenue by category, gross margin and gross margin as a percentage of revenue, operating income and operating income as a percentage of revenue, diluted earnings per share, and annualized recurring revenue compared for the periods indicated: First Quarter of 2021 2020 Change (In millions, except per share amounts) Revenue: Product $ 539.4 $ 463.8 16% Service 162.3 162.4 % Subscription 184.8 166.1 11% Total revenue $ 886.5 $ 792.3 12% Gross margin $ 493.3 $ 441.0 12% Gross margin as a % of revenue 55.6 % 55.7 % Operating income $ 140.9 $ 98.3 43% Operating income as a % of revenue 15.9 % 12.4 % Diluted earnings per share $ 0.45 $ 0.25 80% Non-GAAP revenue (1) $ 886.7 $ 794.0 12% Non-GAAP operating income (1) $ 209.2 $ 161.2 30% Non-GAAP operating income as a % of Non-GAAP Revenue (1) 23.6 % 20.3 % Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share (1) $ 0.66 $ 0.49 35% Annualized Recurring Revenue (ARR) (1) $ 1,319.2 $ 1,215.0 9% (1) Refer to Supplemental Disclosure of Annualized Recurring Revenue and Non-GAAP Financial Measures of this Form 10-Q for definitions. First Quarter of Fiscal Year 2021 Compared with First Quarter of Fiscal Year 2020 Revenue During the first quarter of fiscal 2021, total revenue increased $94.2 million or 12%. By revenue category, product revenue increased $75.6 million or 16%, service revenue decreased $0.1 million or less than 1%, and subscription revenue increased $18.7 million or 11%. Product revenue increased due to strong hardware and related software sales in Buildings and Infrastructure, Geospatial, and Resources and Utilities across many regions, partially offset by a decrease in Transportation sales. Service revenue was relatively flat. Subscription revenue increased primarily due to strong growth in Building and Infrastructure and to a lesser extent, Resources and Utilities, partially offset by a decrease in Transportation. 19 Table of Content s Gross Margin Gross margin increased $52.3 million or 12% and, as a percentage of total revenue, was 55.6% compared to 55.7%. Gross margin increased due to revenue growth; however, as a percentage of revenue, it was relatively flat. Continuing product mix and pricing pressure in Transportation was largely offset by Buildings and Infrastructure improved revenue mix, including increased higher margin software and subscription sales. Operating Income Operating income increased $42.6 million or 43% and, as a percentage of total revenue, was 15.9% compared to 12.4%. Both increases were primarily due to revenue expansion in Buildings and Infrastructure, Geospatial, and Resources and Utilities, strong operating expense control across all segments, partially offset by reduced sales and gross margin compression in Transportation. Research and Development, Sales and Marketing, and General and Administrative Expense The following table shows research and development (R&D), sales and marketing (S&M), and general and administrative (G&A) expense and expense as a percentage of revenue compared for the periods indicated: First Quarter of 2021 2020 Change (In millions) Research and development $ 129.4 $ 118.2 9% Percentage of revenue 14.6 % 14.9 % Sales and marketing $ 122.4 $ 131.7 (7)% Percentage of revenue 13.8 % 16.6 % General and administrative $ 85.4 $ 73.0 17% Percentage of revenue 9.6 % 9.2 % Total $ 337.2 $ 322.9 4% First Quarter of Fiscal Year 2021 Compared with First Quarter of Fiscal Year 2020 Overall R&D, S&M, and G&A expenses increased by $14.3 million or 4%. R&D expense increased $11.2 million or 9% primarily due to higher compensation expense, including incentive compensation, and unfavorable impacts from foreign currency exchange. We believe that the development and introduction of new solutions are critical to our future success, and we expect to continue the active development of new products. S&M expense decreased $9.3 million or 7% primarily due to lower advertising costs and travel reductions, partially offset by higher compensation expense, including incentive compensation, and unfavorable impacts from foreign currency exchange. G&A expense increased $12.4 million or 17% primarily due to higher compensation expense, including incentive compensation, partially offset by lower bad debt expense. 20 Table of Content s Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets First Quarter of 2021 2020 Change (In millions) Cost of sales $ 22.1 $ 23.5 (6)% Operating expenses 13.7 16.9 (19)% Total amortization expense of purchased intangibles $ 35.8 $ 40.4 (11)% Total amortization expense of purchased intangibles as a percentage of revenue 4 % 5 % Total amortization expense of purchased intangibles decreased due to the expiration of prior year acquisitions' amortization. Non-operating Expense, Net The components of Non-operating expense, net, were as follows: First Quarter of 2021 2020 Change (In millions) Interest expense, net $ (16.9) $ (20.5) (18)% Income from equity method investments, net 11.8 9.4 26% Other income (expense), net 1.6 (7.8) (121)% Total non-operating expense, net $ (3.5) $ (18.9) (81)% Non-operating expense, net decreased $15.4 million or 81% due to fluctuations in our deferred compensation plan assets included in Other income (expense), net, lower interest costs associated with a decrease in our outstanding debt, and increased joint venture profitability. Income Tax Provision Our effective income tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2021 was 16.6% as compared to 22.0% in the corresponding period in fiscal 2020. The decrease in our effective income tax rate was primarily due to a one-time tax benefit from foreign income tax refunds and a change in the geographic mix of income. Results by Segment We report our financial performance, including revenue and operating income, based on four reportable segments: Buildings and Infrastructure, Geospatial, Resources and Utilities, and Transportation. Our Chief Executive Officer (chief operating decision maker) views and evaluates operations based on the results of our reportable operating segments under our management reporting system. For additional discussion of our segments, refer to Note 5 Segment Information of this Form 10-Q. 21 Table of Content s The following table is a summary of revenue and operating income by segment compared for the periods indicated: First Quarter of 2021 2020 Change (In millions) Buildings and Infrastructure Segment revenue $ 343.1 $ 296.9 16% Segment revenue as a percent of total revenue 39 % 37 % Segment operating income $ 96.4 $ 60.8 59% Segment operating income as a percent of segment revenue 28.1 % 20.5 % Geospatial Segment revenue $ 181.7 $ 146.2 24% Segment revenue as a percent of total revenue 20 % 18 % Segment operating income $ 48.7 $ 30.5 60% Segment operating income as a percent of segment revenue 26.8 % 20.9 % Resources and Utilities Segment revenue $ 205.2 $ 180.3 14% Segment revenue as a percent of total revenue 23 % 23 % Segment operating income $ 80.1 $ 66.9 20% Segment operating income as a percent of segment revenue 39.0 % 37.1 % Transportation Segment revenue $ 156.7 $ 170.6 (8)% Segment revenue as a percent of total revenue 18 % 21 % Segment operating income $ 8.4 $ 16.9 (50)% Segment operating income as a percent of segment revenue 5.4 % 9.9 % 22 Table of Content s The following table is a reconciliation of our consolidated segment operating income to consolidated income before taxes: First Quarter of 2021 2020 (In millions) Consolidated segment operating income $ 233.6 $ 175.1 Unallocated general corporate expenses (24.4) (13.9) Acquired deferred revenue adjustment (0.2) (1.7) Amortization of acquired capitalized commissions 1.2 1.5 Amortization of purchased intangible assets (35.8) (40.4) Acquisition / divestiture items (3.5) (10.8) Stock-based compensation / deferred compensation (28.7) (4.5) Restructuring and other exit costs (1.5) (3.2) COVID-19 expenses 0.2 (3.8) Consolidated operating income 140.9 98.3 Total non-operating expense, net (3.5) (18.9) Consolidated income before taxes $ 137.4 $ 79.4 Buildings and Infrastructure Buildings and Infrastructure revenue increased $46.2 million or 16%. Segment operating income increased $35.6 million or 59%. Revenue increased across many regions due in equal parts to hardware and related software sales in civil engineering and construction, resulting from strong residential construction spend and higher subscription revenue in our software businesses. The increase in subscription revenue resulted from the cumulative effect of conversions from perpetual licenses to subscription offerings for existing customers, as well as new sales to existing and new customers. Segment operating income and operating income as a percentage of revenue increased primarily due to revenue and gross margin expansion, including a higher mix of software and subscription revenue, as well as operating expense control. Geospatial Geospatial revenue increased $35.5 million or 24%. Segment operating income increased $18.2 million or 60%. Revenue increased primarily driven by geospatial survey new product introductions and strong markets across major regions. Segment operating income and segment operating income as a percentage of revenue increased primarily due to strong revenue expansion and operating expense control. Resources and Utilities Resources and Utilities revenue increased $24.9 million or 14%. Segment operating income increased by $13.2 million or 20%. Revenue increased due to agriculture business strength in the reseller and OEM channels across major regions. Strong market fundamentals, including favorable commodity prices, government stimulus programs, and robust new tractor sales, fueled growth. Segment operating income and segment operating income as a percentage of revenue increased primarily due to strong agriculture revenue and operating expense control. Transportation Transportation revenue decreased $13.9 million or 8%. Segment operating income decreased $8.5 million or 50%. Revenue decreased due in part to lower hardware and subscription revenue in our mobility business resulting from competitive product performance challenges, which resulted in lower prices and a declining subscriber count. Additionally, a divestiture impacted year-over-year segment revenue trends. These declines were partially offset by subscription growth in our enterprise software business. Segment operating income and segment operating income as a percentage of revenue decreased primarily due to revenue and gross margin compression, partially offset by cost reductions. 23 Table of Content s LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES First Quarter of Fiscal Year End As of 2021 2020 Change (In millions, except percentages) Cash and cash equivalents $ 264.6 $ 237.7 $ 26.9 As a percentage of total assets 3.9 % 3.5 % Principal balance of outstanding debt $ 1,397.6 $ 1,555.9 $ (158.3) First Quarter of 2021 2020 Change (In millions) Cash provided by operating activities $ 228.2 $ 155.7 $ 72.5 Cash used in investing activities (9.2) (214.4) $ 205.2 Cash (used in) provided by financing activities (186.9) 99.6 $ (286.5) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (5.2) (13.3) $ 8.1 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 26.9 $ 27.6 $ (0.7) Cash and Cash Equivalents Our ability to continue to generate cash from operations will depend in large part on profitability, the rate of collections of accounts receivable, our inventory turns, and our ability to manage other areas of working capital. Our cash and cash equivalents are maintained with several financial institutions. Deposits held with banks may exceed the amount of insurance provided on such deposits. Generally, these deposits may be redeemed upon demand and are maintained with financial institutions considered to be of reputable credit and to present little credit risk. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents and borrowings, as described below under the heading Debt, along with cash provided by operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs, debt service, any stock repurchases under the stock repurchase program, and planned capital expenditures in the next twelve months. Operating Activities The increase in cash provided by operating activities of $72.5 million was primarily driven by higher net income adjusted for non-cash items and positive working capital changes, including lower inventory, accounts payable, and accrued compensation and benefits requirements. Investing Activities The decrease of cash used in investing activities of $205.2 million was primarily due to the Kuebix acquisition included in the prior year. Financing Activities The increase in cash used in financing activities of $286.5 million was primarily driven by a decrease in debt proceeds, net of debt repayments, partially offset by a decrease in repurchases of common stock. Debt During the first quarter of fiscal 2021, we repaid $154.9 million of debt, net of debt proceeds. Each of our debt agreements requires us to maintain compliance with certain debt covenants, all of which we were in compliance with at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2021. Refer to Note 6 Debt of this Form 10-Q for more information regarding our debt. Off Balance Sheet Financing and Liabilities As of the end of the first quarter of 2021, other than inventory purchases and other commitments incurred in the normal course of business, we did not have any off-balance sheet financing arrangements or liabilities. In the normal course of business to facilitate sales of our products, we indemnify other parties, including customers, lessors and parties to other transactions with us, with respect to certain matters. We may agree to hold the other party harmless against losses arising from a breach of representations or covenants, or out of intellectual property infringement or other claims made against certain parties. These agreements may limit the time within which an indemnification claim can be made and the amount of the 24 Table of Content s claim. In connection with divesting some of our businesses or assets, we may also indemnify purchasers for certain matters in the normal course of business, such as breaches of representations, covenants, or excluded liabilities. In addition, we entered into indemnification agreements with our officers and directors, and our bylaws contain similar indemnification obligations to our agents. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments made by us under these agreements were not material, and no liabilities have been recorded for these obligations on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet s at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2021 and fiscal 2020. SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE OF ANNUALIZED RECURRING REVENUE AND NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES To supplement our condensed consolidated financial information, we believe that the following information is helpful to gain an overall understanding of our past financial performance and prospects for the future. Our non-GAAP measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures. The non-GAAP financial measures and detailed explanations to the adjustments to comparable GAAP measures are below. First Quarter of 2021 2020 Dollar % of Dollar % of (In millions, except per share amounts) Amount Revenue Amount Revenue REVENUE: GAAP revenue: $ 886.5 $ 792.3 Acquired deferred revenue adjustment (A) 0.2 1.7 Non-GAAP revenue: $ 886.7 $ 794.0 GROSS MARGIN: GAAP gross margin: $ 493.3 55.6 % $ 441.0 55.7 % Acquired deferred revenue adjustment (A) 0.2 1.7 Amortization of purchased intangible assets (C) 22.1 23.5 Acquisition / divestiture items (D) 1.7 Stock-based compensation / deferred compensation (E) 2.0 0.7 Restructuring and other exit costs (F) 0.3 Non-GAAP gross margin: $ 517.6 58.4 % $ 468.9 59.1 % OPERATING EXPENSES: GAAP operating expenses: $ 352.4 39.8 % $ 342.7 43.3 % Amortization of acquired capitalized commissions (B) 1.2 1.5 Amortization of purchased intangible assets (C) (13.7) (16.9) Acquisition / divestiture items (D) (3.5) (9.1) Stock-based compensation / deferred compensation (E) (26.7) (3.8) Restructuring and other exit costs (F) (1.5) (2.9) COVID-19 expenses (G) 0.2 (3.8) Non-GAAP operating expenses: $ 308.4 34.8 % $ 307.7 38.8 % OPERATING INCOME: GAAP operating income: $ 140.9 15.9 % $ 98.3 12.4 % Acquired deferred revenue adjustment (A) 0.2 1.7 Amortization of acquired capitalized commissions (B) (1.2) (1.5) Amortization of purchased intangible assets (C) 35.8 40.4 Acquisition / divestiture items (D) 3.5 10.8 Stock-based compensation / deferred compensation (E) 28.7 4.5 Restructuring and other exit costs (F) 1.5 3.2 COVID-19 expenses (G) (0.2) 3.8 Non-GAAP operating income: $ 209.2 23.6 % $ 161.2 20.3 % NON-OPERATING EXPENSE, NET: GAAP non-operating expense, net: $ (3.5) $ (18.9) Acquisition / divestiture items (D) (2.1) Deferred compensation (E) (1.5) 6.2 Non-GAAP non-operating expense, net: $ (7.1) $ (12.7) 25 Table of Content s GAAP and Non-GAAP Tax Rate % GAAP and Non-GAAP Tax Rate % (J) (J) INCOME TAX PROVISION: GAAP income tax provision: $ 22.8 16.6 % $ 17.5 22.0 % Non-GAAP items tax effected (H) 10.7 15.2 Difference in GAAP and Non-GAAP tax rate (I) 1.5 (6.7) Non-GAAP income tax provision: $ 35.0 17.3 % $ 26.0 17.5 % NET INCOME: GAAP net income attributable to Trimble Inc.: $ 114.5 $ 61.9 Acquired deferred revenue adjustment (A) 0.2 1.7 Amortization of acquired capitalized commissions (B) (1.2) (1.5) Amortization of purchased intangible assets (C) 35.8 40.4 Acquisition / divestiture items (D) 1.4 10.8 Stock-based compensation / deferred compensation (E) 27.2 10.7 Restructuring and other exit costs (F) 1.5 3.2 COVID-19 expenses (G) (0.2) 3.8 Non-GAAP tax adjustments (H) - (I) (12.2) (8.5) Non-GAAP net income attributable to Trimble Inc.: $ 167.0 $ 122.5 DILUTED NET INCOME PER SHARE: GAAP diluted net income per share attributable to Trimble Inc.: $ 0.45 $ 0.25 Acquired deferred revenue adjustment (A) 0.01 Amortization of acquired capitalized commissions (B) (0.01) Amortization of purchased intangible assets (C) 0.14 0.16 Acquisition / divestiture items (D) 0.04 Stock-based compensation / deferred compensation (E) 0.11 0.04 Restructuring and other exit costs (F) 0.01 0.01 COVID-19 expenses (G) 0.02 Non-GAAP tax adjustments (H) - (I) (0.05) (0.03) Non-GAAP diluted net income per share attributable to Trimble Inc.: $ 0.66 $ 0.49 ADJUSTED EBITDA: GAAP net income attributable to Trimble Inc.: $ 114.5 $ 61.9 Non-operating expense, net, income tax provision, and net gain attributable to noncontrolling interests 26.4 36.4 GAAP operating income: 140.9 98.3 Acquired deferred revenue adjustment (A) 0.2 1.7 Amortization of acquired capitalized commissions (B) (1.2) (1.5) Amortization of purchased intangible assets (C) 35.8 40.4 Acquisition / divestiture items (D) 3.5 10.8 Stock-based compensation / deferred compensation (E) 28.7 4.5 Restructuring and other exit costs (F) 1.5 3.2 COVID-19 expenses (G) (0.2) 3.8 Non-GAAP operating income: 209.2 161.2 Depreciation expense 10.3 9.8 Income from equity method investments, net 11.8 9.4 Adjusted EBITDA $ 231.3 $ 180.4 26 Table of Content s Annualized Recurring Revenue Explanation In addition to providing non-GAAP financial measures, we provide an annualized recurring revenue (ARR) performance measure in order to provide investors with a supplementary indicator of the value of the Company's current recurring revenue contracts. ARR represents the estimated annualized value of recurring revenue, including subscription, maintenance and software revenue, and term license contracts for the quarter. ARR is calculated by adding the portion of the contract value of all of our term licenses attributable to the current quarter to our non-GAAP recurring revenue for the current quarter and dividing that sum by the number of days in the quarter and then multiplying that quotient by 365. ARR should be viewed independently of revenue and deferred revenue as it is a performance measure and is not intended to be combined with or to replace either of those items. Non-GAAP Explanations Non-GAAP revenue We believe this measure helps investors understand the performance of our business, as non-GAAP revenue excludes the effects of certain acquired deferred revenue that was written down to fair value in purchase accounting. Management believes that excluding fair value purchase accounting adjustments more closely correlates with the ordinary and ongoing course of the acquired companys operations and facilitates analysis of revenue growth and trends. Non-GAAP gross margin We believe our investors benefit by understanding our non-GAAP gross margin as a way of understanding how product mix, pricing decisions, and manufacturing costs influence our business. Non-GAAP gross margin excludes the effects of certain acquired deferred revenue, amortization of purchased intangible assets, acquisition/divestiture items, stock-based compensation, deferred compensation, and restructuring and other exit costs. We believe that these adjustments offer investors additional information that may be useful to view trends in our gross margin performance. Non-GAAP operating expenses We believe this measure is important to investors evaluating our non-GAAP spending in relation to revenue. Non-GAAP operating expenses exclude the effects of certain acquired capitalized commissions that were eliminated in purchase accounting, amortization of purchased intangible assets, acquisition/divestiture items, stock-based compensation, deferred compensation, restructuring and other exit costs, and COVID-19 expenses. We believe that these adjustments offer investors supplemental information to facilitate comparison of our operating expenses to our prior results and trends. Non-GAAP operating income We believe our investors benefit by understanding our non-GAAP operating income trends, which are driven by revenue, gross margin, and spending. Non-GAAP operating income excludes the effects of purchase accounting adjustments to certain acquired deferred revenue and acquired capitalized commissions, amortization of purchased intangible assets, acquisition/divestiture items, stock-based compensation, deferred compensation, restructuring and other exit costs, and COVID-19 expenses. We believe that these adjustments offer a supplemental means for our investors to evaluate current operating performance compared to prior results and trends. Non-GAAP non-operating expense, net We believe this measure helps investors evaluate our non-operating income trends. Non-GAAP non-operating expense, net, excludes acquisition/divestiture items, and deferred compensation. We believe that these exclusions provide investors with a supplemental view of our ongoing financial results. Non-GAAP income tax provision We believe this measure helps investors because it provides for consistent treatment of excluded items in our non-GAAP presentation and a difference in the GAAP and non-GAAP tax rates. The non-GAAP tax rate excludes charges and benefits such as net deferred tax impacts results from the non-U.S. intercompany transfer of intellectual property, tax law changes, and significant one-time reserve releases upon statute of limitations expirations. Non-GAAP net income This measure provides a supplemental view of net income trends, which are driven by non-GAAP income before taxes and our non-GAAP tax rate. Non-GAAP net income excludes the effects of purchase accounting adjustments to certain acquired deferred revenue and acquired capitalized commissions, amortization of purchased intangible assets, acquisition/divestiture items, stock-based compensation, restructuring and other exit costs, COVID-19 expenses, and non-GAAP tax adjustments. We believe our investors benefit from understanding these adjustments and from an alternative view of our net income performance as compared to prior periods and trends. 27 Table of Content s Non-GAAP diluted net income per share We believe our investors benefit by understanding our non-GAAP operating performance as reflected in a per share calculation as a way of measuring non-GAAP operating performance by ownership in the company. Non-GAAP diluted net income per share excludes the effects of purchase accounting adjustments to certain acquired deferred revenue and acquired capitalized commissions, amortization of purchased intangible assets, acquisition/divestiture items, stock-based compensation, restructuring and other exit costs, COVID-19 expenses, and non-GAAP tax adjustments. We believe that these adjustments offer investors a useful view of our diluted net income per share as compared to our prior periods and trends. Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA is a performance measure that we believe offers a useful view of the overall operations of our business. We believe it is useful because it facilitates company-to-company operating performance comparisons by removing potential differences caused by variations unrelated to operating performance, such as capital structures (interest expense), income taxes, depreciation and amortization expenses. We define Adjusted EBITDA as non-GAAP operating income plus depreciation expense and income from equity method investments, net. Other companies define Adjusted EBITDA differently and so our measure may not be directly comparable to similarly titled measures. Our investors should consider the limitations of using Adjusted EBITDA, including the fact that this measure does not provide a complete measure of our operating performance. Adjusted EBITDA is not intended to purport to be an alternative to net income or operating income as a measure of operating performance or to cash flow from operating activities as a measure of liquidity. In particular, Adjusted EBITDA is not intended to be a measure of cash flow available for our discretionary expenditures, as this measure does not consider certain cash requirements, such as restructuring and other exit costs, acquisition and divestiture items, interest payments, tax payments, and other debt service requirements. These non-GAAP measures can be used to evaluate our historical and prospective financial performance, as well as our performance relative to competitors. We believe some of our investors track our "core operating performance" as a means of evaluating our performance in the ordinary, ongoing, and customary course of our operations. Core operating performance excludes items that are non-cash, not expected to recur, or not reflective of ongoing financial results. Management also believes that looking at our core operating performance provides a supplemental way to provide consistency in period to period comparisons. Accordingly, management excludes from non-GAAP the effects of purchase accounting adjustments to certain acquired deferred revenue and acquired capitalized commissions, amortization of purchased intangible assets, acquisition/divestiture items, stock-based compensation, deferred compensation, restructuring and other exit costs, COVID-19 expenses, and non-GAAP tax adjustments. (A). Acquired deferred revenue adjustment . Purchase accounting generally requires us to write-down acquired deferred revenue to fair value. Our GAAP revenue includes the fair value impact from purchase accounting for post-contract support and subscriptions contracts assumed in connection with our acquisitions. The non-GAAP adjustment to our revenue is intended to reflect the full amount of such revenue. We believe this adjustment is useful to investors as a measure of the ongoing performance of our business and facilitates analysis of revenue growth and business trends. (B). Amortization of acquired capitalized commissions . Purchase accounting generally requires us to eliminate capitalized sales commissions balances as of the acquisition date. Our GAAP sales and marketing expenses generally do not reflect the amortization of these capitalized sales commissions balances. The non-GAAP adjustment to increase our sales and marketing expenses is intended to reflect the full amount of amortization related to such balances as though the acquired companies operated independently in the periods presented. We believe this adjustment to sales and marketing expenses is useful to investors as a measure of the ongoing performance of our business. (C). Amortization of purchased intangible assets . Included in our GAAP presentation of cost of sales and operating expenses is amortization of purchased intangible assets. We believe that by excluding the amortization of purchased intangible assets, which primarily represents technology and/or customer relationships already developed, this provides an alternative way for investors to compare our operations pre-acquisition to those post-acquisition and to those of our competitors that have pursued internal growth strategies. However, we note that companies that grow internally will incur costs to develop intangible assets that will be expensed in the period incurred, which may make a direct comparison more difficult. (D). Acquisition / divestiture items . Included in our GAAP presentation of cost of sales and operating expenses, acquisition costs consist of external and incremental costs resulting directly from merger and acquisition and strategic investment activities such as legal, due diligence, integration, and other closing costs including the acceleration of acquisition stock options and adjustments to the fair value of earn-out liabilities. Included in our GAAP presentation of non-operating expense, net, acquisition/divestiture items includes unusual acquisition, investment, and/or divestiture gains/losses. Although we do numerous acquisitions, the costs that have been excluded from the non-GAAP measures are costs specific 28 Table of Content s to particular acquisitions. These are one-time costs that vary significantly in amount and timing and are not indicative of our core operating performance. (E). Stock-based compensation / deferred compensation . Included in our GAAP presentation of cost of sales and operating expenses are stock-based compensation consists of expenses for employee stock options and awards and purchase rights under our employee stock purchase plan. Additionally, included in our GAAP presentation of cost of sales and operating expenses are income or expense associated with movement in our non-qualified deferred compensation plan liabilities. Changes in non-qualified deferred compensation plan assets, included in non-operating expense, net, offset the income or expense in the plan liabilities. We exclude them from our non-GAAP measures because some investors may view it as not reflective of our core operating performance as they are a non-cash item. (F). Restructuring and other exit costs. Included in our GAAP presentation of cost of sales and operating expenses, restructuring and other exit costs are recorded for termination benefits related to reductions in employee headcount, including executive severance agreements, the closure or exit of facilities, and cancellation of certain contracts. We exclude restructuring and other exit costs from our non-GAAP measures because we believe they do not reflect expected future operating expenses, they are not indicative of our core operating performance, and they are not meaningful in comparison to our past operating performance. Furthermore, these costs can vary significantly, thus exclusion from our non-GAAP results is useful to investors because it allows for period-over-period comparability. (G). COVID-19 expenses. Included in our GAAP presentation of operating expenses, COVID-19 expenses consist of costs incurred as a direct impact from the COVID-19 virus pandemic, such as cancellation fees of trade shows due to public safety issues, additional costs for disinfecting facilities, and personal protective equipment. We exclude COVID-19 expenses from our non-GAAP measures because we believe they are one-time costs that vary significantly in amount and timing and are not indicative of our core operating performance. (H). Non-GAAP items tax effected . This amount adjusts the provision for income taxes to reflect the effect of the non-GAAP items (A) - (G) on non-GAAP net income. We believe this information is useful to investors because it provides for consistent treatment of the excluded items in this non-GAAP presentation. (I). Difference in GAAP and Non-GAAP tax rate . This amount represents the difference between the GAAP and non-GAAP tax rates applied to the non-GAAP operating income plus the non-GAAP non-operating expense, net. The non-GAAP tax rate excludes charges and benefits such as net deferred tax impacts resulting from a non-U.S. intercompany transfer of intellectual property and significant one-time reserve releases upon statute of limitations expirations. We believe that investors benefit from excluding this amount from our non-GAAP income tax provision because it facilitates a comparison of the non-GAAP tax provision in the current and prior periods. (J). GAAP and non-GAAP tax rate percentages . These percentages are defined as GAAP income tax provision as a percentage of GAAP income before taxes and non-GAAP income tax provision as a percentage of non-GAAP income before taxes. We believe that investors benefit from a presentation of non-GAAP tax rate percentage as a way of facilitating a comparison to non-GAAP tax rates in prior periods.