Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as "may, " "will, " "should, " "could, " "predicts, " "potential, " "continue, " "expects, " "anticipates, " "future, " "intends, " "plans, " "believes, " "estimates, " and similar expressions. These forward-looking statements involve certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, levels of activity, performance, achievements, and events to differ materially from those implied by such forward-looking statements, including but not limited to those discussed in "Risk Factors" below and elsewhere in this report, as well as in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year 2016 and in other reports Trimble files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, each as it may be amended from time to time. These forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We reserve the right to update these forward-looking statements for any reason, including the occurrence of material events, but assume no duty to update these statements to reflect subsequent events. ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable. Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact the company in the future, actual results may be different from the estimates. Management believes that there have been no significant changes during the first quarter of fiscal 2017 to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting policies and estimates in the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS For a summary of recent accounting pronouncements applicable to our Consolidated Financial Statements, see Note 2 to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1, which is incorporated herein by reference. EXECUTIVE LEVEL OVERVIEW Trimble began operations in 1978 and was originally incorporated in California as Trimble Navigation Limited in 1981. On October 1, 2016, Trimble Navigation Limited changed its name to Trimble Inc. ("Trimble" or the "Company") and changed its state of incorporation from the State of California to the State of Delaware. In March 2017, we changed the reporting of our segment financial results to better reflect our customer base and end markets. Beginning with the first quarter of fiscal 2017, we are reporting our financial performance, including revenues and operating 21 Table of Contents income, based on four new reportable segments: Buildings and Infrastructure, Geospatial, Resources and Utilities, and Transportation. Comparative period financial information by reportable segment has been recast to conform with the current presentation. The Buildings and Infrastructure segment primarily serves customers working in architecture, engineering, construction and operations and maintenance. The Geospatial segment primarily serves customers working in surveying, engineering, government and land management. The Resources and Utilities segment primarily serves customers working in agriculture, forestry, and utilities. The Transportation segment primarily serves customers working in transportation, including transportation and logistics, automotive, rail and military aviation. Trimble is a leading provider of technology solutions that optimize the work processes of office and mobile field professionals around the world. Our comprehensive work process solutions are used across a range of industries including agriculture, architecture, civil engineering, construction, government, natural resources, transportation and utilities. Representative Trimble customers include engineering and construction firms, contractors, surveying companies, farmers and agricultural companies, transportation and logistics companies, energy, mining and utility companies, and state, federal and municipal governments. Trimble focuses on integrating its broad technological and application capabilities to create vertically-focused, system-level solutions that transform how work is done within the industries we serve. The integration of sensors, software, connectivity, and information in our portfolio gives us the unique ability to provide an information model specific to the customers workflow. For example, in construction, our strategy is centered on the concept of a constructible model which is at the center of our Connected Construction Site solutions which provide real-time, connected, and cohesive information environments for the design, build, and operational phases of projects. In agriculture, we continue to develop Connected Farm solutions to optimize operations across the agriculture workflow. In transportation and logistics, our Connected Fleet solutions provide transportation companies with tools to enhance fuel efficiency, safety, and transparency through connected vehicles and fleets across the enterprise. Our growth strategy is centered on multiple elements: Focus on attractive markets with significant growth and profitability potential - We focus on large markets historically underserved by technology that offer significant potential for long-term revenue growth, profitability and market leadership. Our core industries such as construction, agriculture, and transportation markets are each multi-trillion dollar global industries which operate in increasingly demanding environments with technology adoption in the early phases relative to other industries. With the emergence of mobile computing capabilities, the increasing technological know-how of end users and the compelling return on investment to our customers, we believe many of our markets are ripe for substituting Trimbles technology and solutions in place of traditional operating methods. Domain knowledge and technological innovation that benefit a diverse customer base - We have over time redefined our technological focus from hardware-driven point solutions to integrated work process solutions by developing domain expertise and heavily reinvesting in R&D and acquisitions. We have been spending approximately 14% to 15% of revenue over the past several years on R&D and currently have over 1,200 unique patents. We intend to continue to take advantage of our technology portfolio and deep domain knowledge to quickly and cost-effectively deliver specific, targeted solutions to each of the vertical markets we serve. We look for opportunities where the opportunity for technological change is high and which have a requirement for the integration of multiple technologies into complete vertical solutions. Increasing focus on software and services - Software and services are increasingly important elements of our solutions and are core to our growth strategy. Trimble has an open application programming interface ("API") philosophy and open vendor environment which leads to increased adoption of our software offerings. We believe that increased recurring revenue from these solutions will provide us with enhanced business visibility over time. Professional services constitute an additional growth channel that helps our customers integrate and optimize the use of our offerings in their environment. Geographic expansion with localization strategy - We view international expansion as an important element of our strategy and we continue to position ourselves in geographic markets that will serve as important sources of future growth. We currently have a physical presence in over 35 countries and distribution channels in over 100 countries. In first quarter of 2017 , over 50% of our sales were to customers located in countries outside of the U.S. Optimized go to market strategies to best access our markets - We utilize vertically-focused distribution channels that leverage domain expertise to best serve the needs of individual markets domestically and abroad. These channels include independent dealers, joint ventures, original equipment manufacturers ("OEM") sales, and distribution alliances with key partners, such as CNH Global, Caterpillar, and Nikon, as well as direct sales to end-users, that provide us with broad market reach and localization capabilities to effectively serve our markets. Strategic acquisitions - Organic growth continues to be our primary focus, while acquisitions serve to enhance our market position. We acquire businesses that bring domain expertise, technology, products, or distribution capabilities that augment our portfolio and allow us to penetrate existing markets more effectively, or to establish a market beachhead. Our success in targeting and effectively integrating acquisitions is an important aspect of our growth strategy. 22 Table of Contents Trimbles focus on these growth drivers has led over time to growth in revenue and profitability as well as an increasingly diversified business model. Software and services growth is driving increased recurring revenue, leading to improved visibility in some of our businesses. As our solutions have expanded, our go to market model has also evolved, with a balanced mix between direct, distribution and OEM customers, and an increasing number of enterprise level customer relationships. For the first quarter of fiscal 2017 , total revenue increased by $30.9 million compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2016 . By geography, North America and Europe were slightly up and Asia-Pacific and the rest of the world were up year over year. We continue to experience a shift in revenue towards a more significant mix of software, recurring revenue, and services, driven both by organic growth and acquisitions. During the first quarter of fiscal 2017 , we acquired three businesses, with total cash consideration of $98.7 million , in our Transportation and Resources and Utilities segment. The largest acquisition was a manufacturer of vision-based automatic wayside inspection systems for the railroad industry. Our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income include the operating results of the businesses from the dates of acquisition. In addition, in the first quarter of 2017 , we sold our ThingMagic business. Our ThingMagic business provided ultra high frequency radio frequency identification ("RFID") modules and finished RFID readers to OEMs in the medical and advanced industrial markets and was part of the Geospatial segment. The sale resulted in a $10.6 million gain in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 that was included in Other income, net on our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. Seasonality of Business Construction purchases, within our Buildings and Infrastructure segment, tend to occur in early spring, and U.S. governmental agencies tend to utilize funds available at the end of the governments fiscal year for additional purchases at the end of our third fiscal quarter in September of each year. Our agricultural equipment business revenues, within our Resources and Utilities segment, have historically been the highest in the first quarter, followed by the second quarter, reflecting buying in anticipation of the spring planting season in the Northern hemisphere. However, overall as a company, as a result of diversification of our business across segments and the increased impact of subscription revenues, we may experience less seasonality in the future. Changes in global macroeconomic conditions could also impact the level of seasonality we experience. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview The following table is a summary of revenue, gross margin and operating income for the periods indicated and should be read in conjunction with the narrative descriptions below. First Quarter of 2017 2016 (In millions) Revenue: Product $ 405.4 $ 393.6 Service 106.8 101.6 Subscription 101.7 87.8 Total revenue $ 613.9 $ 583.0 Gross margin $ 326.6 $ 300.6 Gross margin % 53.2 % 51.6 % Operating income $ 56.6 $ 29.9 Operating income % 9.2 % 5.1 % Revenue In the first quarter of fiscal 2017 , total revenue increased $30.9 million or 5% compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2016 . Product revenue increased $11.8 million or 3% , service revenue increased $5.2 million or 5% , and subscription revenue increased $13.9 million or 16% . The product, service and subscription revenue increases were primarily due to organic growth in Buildings and 23 Table of Contents Infrastructure and Transportation and to a lesser extent, Resources and Utilities. These increases in revenue were partially offset by a decrease in Geospatial revenues, primarily due to divestitures. On a segment basis, Buildings and Infrastructure revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 increased $14.4 million or 8% , Resources and Utilities revenue increased $6.1 million or 5% , Transportation revenue increased $12.8 million or 9% , partially offset by a decrease in Geospatial revenue of $2.4 million or 2% , compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2016 . Buildings and Infrastructure revenue increased primarily due to buildings software and civil engineering and construction organic growth. Resources and Utilities revenue increased due to strong performance in agriculture and correction services. Transportation revenue increased due to continued growth in the transportation and logistics market. Geospatial revenue decreased for the first quarter mainly due to divestitures. Gross Margin Gross margin varies due to a combination of factors including product mix, pricing, distribution channel, production volumes and foreign currency translations. Gross margin increased by $26.0 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2016 . Gross margin as a percentage of total revenue was 53.2% for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 , compared to 51.6% for the corresponding period in fiscal 2016 . The increase was primarily attributable to lower intangibles amortization due to fully amortized intangibles from prior acquisitions and an increase in sales of higher margin products, primarily software, maintenance, and subscription revenue due to organic growth, particularly in Resources and Utilities and to a lesser extent, in Buildings and Infrastructure. Operating Income Operating income increased by $26.7 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2016 . Operating income as a percentage of total revenue was 9.2% for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 , compared to 5.1% for the corresponding period in fiscal 2016 . The increases to operating income and operating income percentage for the first quarter were attributable to revenue increases across segments, excluding Geospatial, and strong operating expense control as well as lower amortization of purchased intangible assets, partially offset by continued investments in growth opportunities in Transportation. Results by Segment In March 2017, we changed the reporting of our segment financial results to better reflect our customer base and end markets. Beginning with the first quarter of fiscal 2017, we are reporting our financial performance, including revenues and operating income, based on four new reportable segments: Buildings and Infrastructure, Geospatial, Resources and Utilities, and Transportation. Comparative period financial information by reportable segment has been recast to conform with the current presentation. Operating income is revenue less cost of sales and operating expense, excluding unallocated corporate expenses, restructuring charges, amortization of purchased intangible assets, stock-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up, acquisition and divestiture items and executive transition costs. 24 Table of Contents The following table is a summary of revenue and operating income by segment: First Quarter of 2017 2016 (In millions) Buildings and Infrastructure Revenue $ 188.1 $ 173.7 Segment revenue as a percent of total revenue 31 % 30 % Operating income $ 32.7 $ 22.4 Operating income as a percent of segment revenue 17 % 13 % Geospatial Revenue $ 149.8 $ 152.2 Segment revenue as a percent of total revenue 24 % 26 % Operating income $ 27.9 $ 26.1 Operating income as a percent of segment revenue 19 % 17 % Resources and Utilities Revenue $ 119.9 $ 113.8 Segment revenue as a percent of total revenue 20 % 19 % Operating income $ 42.2 $ 34.9 Operating income as a percent of segment revenue 35 % 31 % Transportation Revenue $ 156.1 $ 143.3 Segment revenue as a percent of total revenue 25 % 25 % Operating income $ 24.8 $ 23.8 Operating income as a percent of segment revenue 16 % 17 % A reconciliation of our consolidated segment operating income to consolidated income before taxes follows: First Quarter of 2017 2016 (In millions) Consolidated segment operating income $ 127.6 $ 107.2 Unallocated corporate expense (18.4 ) (18.7 ) Restructuring charges (3.4 ) (2.1 ) Amortization of purchased intangible assets (33.3 ) (40.3 ) Stock-based compensation (13.7 ) (13.7 ) Amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up (0.1 ) Acquisition and divestiture items (2.1 ) (1.6 ) Executive transition costs (0.9 ) Consolidated operating income 56.6 29.9 Non-operating income (expense), net: 9.0 (0.5 ) Consolidated income before taxes $ 65.6 $ 29.4 Buildings and Infrastructure Buildings and Infrastructure revenue increased by $14.4 million or 8% for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2016 . Segment operating income increased $10.3 million or 46% for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2016 . The revenue increase for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to strong performance in buildings software, including growth in architecture and design products as well as BIM software. Growth in civil engineering and construction products continued to be driven by strong OEM sales, as well as new product introductions. Operating income increased for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 , primarily due to revenue growth and operating expense control across all businesses. 25 Table of Contents Geospatial Geospatial revenue decreased $2.4 million or 2% for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2016 . Segment operating income increased by $1.8 million or 7% for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2016 . Geospatial revenue decreased for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 primarily due to divestitures, including ThingMagic, Advanced Public Safety and Gatewing. Excluding the impact of divestitures, revenue increased primarily due to inertial product sales, used for mobile georeferencing applications, and timing component sales. Geospatial optical and Global Navigation Satellite System ("GNSS") product sales grew slightly. The newly introduced SX10 product, which combined imaging, survey and 3D scanning capabilities, contributed to growth as well. An area of weakness continued in GIS product sales. Operating income was up for the first quarter due to slightly higher margin product mix and expense control across all businesses. Resources and Utilities Resources and Utilities revenue increased by $6.1 million or 5% for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2016 . Segment operating income increased $7.3 million or 21% for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2016 . Resources and Utilities revenue increased for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 primarily due to strong performance in agriculture and correction services. Agriculture experienced growth in markets such as Europe, Russia and Brazil, as well as North America which provided slight growth. New agriculture OEM relationships also contributed to growth. Operating income increased for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 primarily due to stronger results in agriculture and correction services and operating expense control across all businesses. Transportation Transportation revenue increased by $12.8 million or 9% for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2016 . Segment operating income increased by $1.0 million or 4% for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2016 . Transportation revenue increased for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 primarily due to continued organic growth in the transportation and logistics business, particularly in North America due to the Electronic Logging Device government mandate as well as complementary product sales such as video cameras. Operating income was flat for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 . Although revenue was up, operating income was flat due to continued investments in discrete new initiatives, such as a truck driver communities, as well as a reduction in gross margin due to product mix. Research and Development, Sales and Marketing and General and Administrative Expense Research and development (R&D), sales and marketing (S&M) and general and administrative (G&A) expense are summarized in the following table: First Quarter of 2017 2016 (In millions) Research and development $ 88.7 $ 87.7 Percentage of revenue 15 % 15 % Sales and marketing $ 94.8 $ 96.7 Percentage of revenue 15 % 16 % General and administrative $ 69.3 $ 68.3 Percentage of revenue 11 % 12 % Total $ 252.8 $ 252.7 Percentage of revenue 41 % 43 % Overall, R&D, S&M and G&A expense increased by approximately $0.1 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2016 . Research and development expense increased by $1.0 million or 1% for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2016 primarily due to a $1.8 million increase in compensation expense and a $1.2 million increase in consulting expense, partially offset by a $0.9 million decrease due to favorable foreign exchange rates and a $1.1 million decrease 26 Table of Contents in other expense. Overall, research and development spending was both 15% of revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 and 2016 . We believe that the development and introduction of new products are critical to our future success, and we expect to continue active development of new products. Sales and marketing expense decreased by $1.9 million or 2.0% for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2016 primarily due to a $1.2 million decrease in travel expense, a $1.0 million decrease due to favorable foreign exchange rates, and a $0.9 million decrease in compensation expense, partially offset by $0.8 million in expense from acquisitions not applicable in the prior corresponding period and a $0.4 million increase in other expense. Overall, spending for sales and marketing was 15% of revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 , compared to approximately 16% in the corresponding period of fiscal 2016 . General and administrative expense increased by a $1.0 million , or 1% for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2016 primarily due to a $2.7 million increase in compensation expense, partially offset by a $1.0 million decrease due to facilities consolidation and a $0.7 million decrease due to travel and other expense. Overall, general and administrative spending was 11% of revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 , compared to approximately 12% in the corresponding period of fiscal 2016 . Restructuring charges Restructuring charges primarily consist of severance and benefits, resulting from employee headcount reductions in connection with our restructuring programs related to decisions to streamline processes and reduce the cost structure. As of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2017 , our restructuring liability was $2.8 million, which is expected to be substantially settled by the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Restructuring liabilities are reported within Other current liabilities on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets Amortization of purchased intangible assets was $33.3 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 , compared to $40.3 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 . Of the total $33.3 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 , $14.3 million is presented as a separate line within Operating expense and $19.0 million is presented as a separate line within Cost of sales in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. Of the total $40.3 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 , $16.2 million is presented as a separate line within Operating expense and $24.1 million is presented as a separate line within Cost of sales in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. Amortization in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 reflects acquisitions not included in the corresponding period of fiscal 2016 offset by the fully amortized intangibles from prior acquisitions. As of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2017 future amortization of intangible assets is expected to be $102.2 million during the remainder of fiscal 2017 , $110.0 million during 2018 , $70.4 million during 2019 , $42.9 million during 2020 , $22.1 million during 2021 and $14.0 million thereafter. Non-operating Income (Expense), Net The components of Non-operating income (expense), net, were as follows: First Quarter of 2017 2016 (In millions) Interest expense, net $ (6.1 ) $ (6.6 ) Foreign currency transaction gain (loss), net 1.4 (0.1 ) Income from equity method investments, net 4.2 2.9 Other income, net 9.5 3.3 Total non-operating income (expense), net $ 9.0 $ (0.5 ) Non-operating income (expense), net increased $9.5 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2016 . The increase for the first quarter was primarily due to divestiture gains, and, to a lesser extent, the favorable impact from foreign currency exchange and an increase in profitability from joint ventures. Income Tax Provision 27 Table of Contents Our effective income tax rate, after including discrete items, for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 was 23% , compared to 33% in the corresponding period in fiscal 2016 . The rate decrease in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to a change in the geographic mix of pre-tax income and stock-based compensation tax benefits. This compared to a rate increase in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 primarily due to an increase in nondeductible expenses and other discrete items. Historically, our effective tax rate has been lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to the favorable tax rates associated with certain earnings from operations in lower-tax jurisdictions. We have not provided for U.S. taxes on such earnings due to the indefinite reinvestment of such earnings outside the U.S. OFF-BALANCE SHEET FINANCINGS AND LIABILITIES Other than lease commitments incurred in the normal course of business, we do not have any off-balance sheet financing arrangements or liabilities, guarantee contracts, retained or contingent interests in transferred assets, or any obligation arising out of a material variable interest in an unconsolidated entity. We do not have any majority-owned subsidiaries that are not included in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Additionally, we do not have any interest in, or relationship with, any special purpose entities. In the normal course of business to facilitate sales of our products, we indemnify other parties, including customers, lessors and parties to other transactions with us, with respect to certain matters. We have agreed to hold the other party harmless against losses arising from a breach of representations or covenants, or out of intellectual property infringement or other claims made against certain parties. These agreements may limit the time within which an indemnification claim can be made and the amount of the claim. From time to time, in connection with divesting some of our businesses or assets, we may also indemnify purchasers for certain matters in the normal course of business, such as breaches of representations, covenants or excluded liabilities. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our officers and directors, and our bylaws contain similar indemnification obligations to our agents. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments made by us under these agreements were not material and no liabilities have been recorded for these obligations on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2017 and fiscal year end 2016 . LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES First Quarter of Fiscal Year End As of 2017 2016 (In millions, except par value) Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments $ 422.6 $ 327.2 As a percentage of total assets 10.8 % 8.9 % Principal balance of outstanding debt 652.8 624.8 First Quarter of 2017 2016 (In millions, except par value) Cash provided by operating activities $ 102.9 $ 114.4 Cash used in investing activities (94.5 ) (8.3 ) Cash provided by (used in) financing activities 51.3 (51.1 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 5.0 3.7 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 64.7 $ 58.7 Cash and Cash Equivalents and Short-Term Investments As of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2017 , cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments totaled $422.6 million compared to $327.2 million as of fiscal year end 2016 . We had a principal balance of outstanding debt of $652.8 million as of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2017 , compared to $624.8 million as of fiscal year end 2016 . Our ability to continue to generate cash from operations will depend in large part on profitability, the rate of collections of accounts receivable, our inventory turns and our ability to manage other areas of working capital. 28 Table of Contents Our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are maintained with several financial institutions. Deposits held with banks may exceed the amount of insurance provided on such deposits. Generally, these deposits may be redeemed upon demand and are maintained with financial institutions considered to be of reputable credit and to present little credit risk. Our investment policy requires the portfolio to include only securities with high credit quality and a weighted average maturity not to exceed 6 months, with the main objective of preserving capital and maintaining liquidity. We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. We classify our investments as short-term investments based on their nature and their availability for use in current operations. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and borrowings under our 2014 Credit Facility as described below under the heading "Debt", will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs, debt service, planned capital expenditures, acquisitions and stock repurchases under the stock repurchase program for at least the next twelve months. Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities was $102.9 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 , compared to $114.4 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 . The decrease of $11.5 million was primarily driven by an increase in working capital requirements, particularly accounts receivable. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities was $94.5 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 , compared to $8.3 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 . The increase of $86.2 million was primarily due to increased spending for business acquisitions and purchases of available-for-sale investments, partially offset by proceeds from sales of businesses . Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities was $51.3 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 , compared to cash used in financing activities of $51.1 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 . The increase of cash provided by financing activities of $102.4 million was primarily driven by an increase in issuance of common stock and proceeds on debt and revolving credit lines. Accounts Receivable and Inventory Metrics First Quarter of Fiscal Year End As of 2017 2016 Accounts receivable days sales outstanding 59 55 Inventory turns per year 5.0 4.8 Accounts receivable days sales outstanding were up to 59 days as of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2017 , compared to 55 days as of the end of fiscal 2016 . Our accounts receivable days sales outstanding are calculated based on ending accounts receivable, net, divided by revenue for the corresponding fiscal quarter, times a quarterly average of 91 days. Our inventory turns were 5.0 as of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2017 , compared to 4.8 as of the end of fiscal 2016 . Our inventory turnover is calculated based on total cost of sales for the most recent twelve months divided by average ending inventory, net, for this same twelve month period. Debt Notes In November 2014, we issued $400.0 million of Senior Notes (the "Notes") in a public offering registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Notes mature on December 1, 2024 and accrue interest at a rate of 4.75% per annum, payable semiannually in arrears in cash on December 1 and June 1 of each year. In connection with the Notes offering, we entered into an Indenture with U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee. We may redeem the Notes at our option at any time, in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the Indenture. Further details regarding the terms of the Notes, including the redemption rights, and the Indenture, are provided in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2016. 2014 Credit Facility In November 2014, we entered into a five-year credit agreement with a group of lenders, which provides for an unsecured revolving loan facility of $1.0 billion (the "2014 Credit Facility"). Under the 2014 Credit Facility, we may borrow, repay and reborrow funds under the revolving loan facility until its maturity on November 24, 2019, at which time the revolving facility will terminate, and all outstanding loans, together with all accrued and unpaid interest, must be repaid. The interest rate on the non-current debt outstanding under the 2014 Credit Facility was 2.03% and 1.80% at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2017 and fiscal year end 2016 , respectively, and is payable on a quarterly basis. Amounts not borrowed under the revolving facility will be subject to a commitment fee. In 29 Table of Contents February 2016, we entered into an amendment to the 2014 Credit Facility to facilitate our proposed reincorporation from California to Delaware and to effect other non-financial terms. In August 2016, we entered into a second amendment to revise a definition used in determining when a change of control of the Company may occur. We were in compliance with all covenants pertaining to the 2014 Credit Facility at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2017. Uncommitted Facilities We also have two $75 million revolving credit facilities which are uncommitted (the "Uncommitted Facilities"). The Uncommitted Facilities may be called by the lenders at any time, have no covenants and no specified expiration date. The $138.0 million outstanding at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2017 and the $130.0 million outstanding at the end of fiscal 2016 under the Uncommitted Facilities are considered short-term. The weighted average interest rate on the Uncommitted Facilities was 1.85% at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2017 and 1.65% at the end of fiscal 2016 . Promissory Notes and Other Debt At the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2017 and the end of fiscal 2016 , we had promissory notes and other notes payable totaling approximately $0.8 million for each period, of which $0.5 million for each period was classified as long-term in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. For additional discussion of our debt, see Note 7 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Repatriation of Foreign Earnings and Income Taxes As of the first quarter of fiscal 2017 , $398.2 million of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investment was held by our foreign subsidiaries, of which $15.3 million was borrowed from the U.S. under intercompany financing arrangements. If these loaned funds are needed for our operations in the U.S., we would not be required to accrue and pay U.S. federal and state taxes to repatriate the loaned funds. To the extent of other repatriation of cash held by foreign entities, we generally would be required to pay U.S. federal and state taxes. While a significant portion of our foreign earnings continue to be permanently reinvested in our foreign subsidiaries, it is anticipated this reinvestment will not impede cash needs at the parent company level. However, if we were to make significant acquisitions or stock repurchases, we may be required to increase our outstanding indebtedness, which could result in increased borrowing costs. In our determination of which foreign earnings are permanently reinvested, we consider numerous factors, including the financial requirements of the U.S. parent company, the financial requirements of the foreign subsidiaries, and the tax consequences of remitting the foreign earnings back to the U.S. There are no other material impediments to our ability to access sources of liquidity and our resulting ability to meet short and long-term liquidity needs, other than in the event we are not in compliance with the covenants under our 2014 Credit Facility or the potential tax costs of remitting foreign earnings back to the U.S. RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES Our non-GAAP measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures. The non-GAAP financial measures included in the following tables as well as detailed explanations to the adjustments to comparable GAAP measures, are set forth below: Non-GAAP gross margin We believe our investors benefit by understanding our non-GAAP gross margin as a way of understanding how product mix, pricing decisions and manufacturing costs influence our business. Non-GAAP gross margin excludes restructuring charges, amortization of purchased intangible assets, stock-based compensation and amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up from GAAP gross margin. We believe that these exclusions offer investors additional information that may be useful to view trends in our gross margin performance. Non-GAAP operating expenses We believe this measure is important to investors evaluating our non-GAAP spending in relation to revenue. Non-GAAP operating expenses exclude restructuring charges, amortization of purchased intangible assets, stock-based compensation, acquisition/divestiture costs associated with external and incremental costs resulting directly from merger and acquisition activities such as legal, due diligence, and integration costs, and executive transition costs from GAAP operating expenses. We believe that these exclusions offer investors supplemental information to facilitate comparison of our operating expenses to our prior results. Non-GAAP operating income We believe our investors benefit by understanding our non-GAAP operating income trends which are driven by revenue, gross margin, and spending. Non-GAAP operating income excludes restructuring charges, amortization of purchased intangible assets, stock-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up, acquisition/divestiture costs associated with 30 Table of Contents external and incremental costs resulting directly from merger and acquisition activities such as legal, due diligence, and integration costs, and executive transition costs. We believe that these exclusions offer an alternative means for our investors to evaluate current operating performance compared to results of other periods. Non-GAAP non-operating income (expense), net We believe this measure helps investors evaluate our non-operating income trends. Non-GAAP non-operating income (expense), net excludes acquisition/divestiture gains/losses associated with unusual acquisition related items such as intangible asset impairment charges and gains or losses related to the acquisition or sale of certain businesses and investments. We believe that these exclusions provide investors with a supplemental view of our ongoing financial results. Non-GAAP income tax provision We believe that providing investors with the non-GAAP income tax provision is beneficial because it provides for consistent treatment of the excluded items in our non-GAAP presentation. Non-GAAP net income This measure provides a supplemental view of net income trends which are driven by non-GAAP income before taxes and our non-GAAP tax rate. Non-GAAP net income excludes restructuring charges, amortization of purchased intangible assets, stock-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up, acquisition/divestiture costs, executive transition costs, and non-GAAP tax adjustments from GAAP net income. We believe our investors benefit from understanding these exclusions and from an alternative view of our net income performance compared to our past net income performance. Non-GAAP diluted net income per share We believe our investors benefit by understanding our non-GAAP operating performance as reflected in a per share calculation as a way of measuring non-GAAP operating performance by ownership in the company. Non-GAAP diluted net income per share excludes restructuring charges, amortization of purchased intangible assets, stock-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up, acquisition/divestiture costs, executive transition costs, and non-GAAP tax adjustments from GAAP diluted net income per share. We believe that these exclusions offer investors a useful view of our diluted net income per share compared to our past diluted net income per share. These non-GAAP measures can be used to evaluate our historical and prospective financial performance, as well as our performance relative to competitors. We believe some of our investors track our ""core operating performance"" as a means of evaluating our performance in the ordinary, ongoing, and customary course of our operations. Core operating performance excludes items that are non-cash, not expected to recur or not reflective of ongoing financial results. Management also believes that looking at our core operating performance provides a supplemental way to provide consistency in period to period comparisons. Accordingly, management excludes from non-GAAP those items relating to restructuring charges, amortization of purchased intangible assets, stock-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up, acquisition/divestiture costs, executive transition costs, and non-GAAP tax adjustments. For detailed explanations of the adjustments made to comparable GAAP measures, see items ( A ) - ( I ) below. (In millions, except per share amounts) First Quarter 2017 2016 Dollar % of Dollar % of Amount Revenue Amount Revenue GROSS MARGIN: GAAP gross margin: $ 326.6 53.2 % $ 300.6 51.6 % Restructuring charges ( A ) 0.5 0.1 % 0.3 0.1 % Amortization of purchased intangible assets ( B ) 19.0 3.1 % 24.1 4.0 % Stock-based compensation ( C ) 0.8 0.1 % 1.0 0.2 % Amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up ( D ) 0.1 % % Non-GAAP gross margin: $ 347.0 56.5 % $ 326.0 55.9 % OPERATING EXPENSES: GAAP operating expenses: $ 270.0 44.0 % $ 270.7 46.4 % Restructuring charges ( A ) (2.9 ) (0.6 )% (1.8 ) (0.3 )% Amortization of purchased intangible assets ( B ) (14.3 ) (2.3 )% (16.2 ) (2.8 )% Stock-based compensation ( C ) (12.9 ) (2.1 )% (12.7 ) (2.2 )% 31 Table of Contents Acquisition / divestiture items ( E ) (2.1 ) (0.3 )% (1.6 ) (0.3 )% Executive transition costs ( F ) % (0.9 ) (0.1 )% Non-GAAP operating expenses: $ 237.8 38.7 % $ 237.5 40.7 % OPERATING INCOME: GAAP operating income: $ 56.6 9.2 % $ 29.9 5.1 % Restructuring charges ( A ) 3.4 0.7 % 2.1 0.4 % Amortization of purchased intangible assets ( B ) 33.3 5.4 % 40.3 6.8 % Stock-based compensation ( C ) 13.7 2.2 % 13.7 2.4 % Amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up ( D ) 0.1 % % Acquisition / divestiture items ( E ) 2.1 0.3 % 1.6 0.3 % Executive transition costs ( F ) % 0.9 0.1 % Non-GAAP operating income: $ 109.2 17.8 % $ 88.5 15.1 % NON-OPERATING INCOME (EXPENSE), NET: GAAP non-operating income (expense), net: $ 9.0 $ (0.5 ) Acquisition / divestiture items ( E ) (8.1 ) (3.1 ) Non-GAAP non-operating income (expense), net: $ 0.9 $ (3.6 ) GAAP and Non-GAAP Tax Rate % ( I ) GAAP and Non-GAAP Tax Rate % INCOME TAX PROVISION: GAAP income tax provision: $ 15.1 23 % $ 9.7 33 % Non-GAAP items tax effected ( G ) 10.2 18.3 Difference in GAAP and Non-GAAP tax rate ( H ) (7.5 ) Non-GAAP income tax provision: $ 25.3 23 % $ 20.5 24 % NET INCOME: GAAP net income attributable to Trimble Inc. $ 50.5 $ 19.8 Restructuring charges ( A ) 3.4 2.1 Amortization of purchased intangible assets ( B ) 33.3 40.3 Stock-based compensation ( C ) 13.7 13.7 Amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up ( D ) 0.1 Acquisition / divestiture items ( E ) (6.0 ) (1.5 ) Executive transition costs ( F ) 0.9 Non-GAAP tax adjustments ( G ) + ( H ) (10.2 ) (10.8 ) Non-GAAP net income attributable to Trimble Inc. $ 84.8 $ 64.5 DILUTED NET INCOME PER SHARE: GAAP diluted net income per share attributable to Trimble Inc. $ 0.20 $ 0.08 Restructuring charges ( A ) 0.01 0.01 Amortization of purchased intangible assets ( B ) 0.13 0.16 Stock-based compensation ( C ) 0.05 0.05 Amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up ( D ) Acquisition / divestiture items ( E ) (0.02 ) (0.01 ) Executive transition costs ( F ) Non-GAAP tax adjustments ( G ) + ( H ) (0.04 ) (0.04 ) Non-GAAP diluted net income per share attributable to Trimble Inc. $ 0.33 $ 0.25 A. Restructuring charges. Included in our GAAP presentation of cost of sales and operating expenses, restructuring charges recorded are primarily for employee compensation resulting from reductions in employee headcount in connection with our company restructurings. We exclude restructuring charges from our non-GAAP measures because we believe they do not reflect expected future operating expenses, they are not indicative of our core operating performance, and they are not meaningful in comparisons to our past operating performance. We have incurred restructuring expense in each of the periods presented. However the amount incurred can vary significantly based on whether a restructuring has occurred in the period and the timing of headcount reductions. 32 Table of Contents B. Amortization of purchased intangible assets. Included in our GAAP presentation of gross margin and operating expenses is amortization of purchased intangible assets. U.S. GAAP accounting requires that intangible assets are recorded at fair value and amortized over their useful lives. Consequently, the timing and size of our acquisitions will cause our operating results to vary from period to period, making a comparison to past performance difficult for investors. This accounting treatment may cause differences when comparing our results to companies that grow internally because the fair value assigned to the intangible assets acquired through acquisition may significantly exceed the equivalent expenses that a company may incur for similar efforts when performed internally. Furthermore, the useful life that we use to amortize our intangible assets over may be substantially different from the time period that an internal growth company incurs and recognizes such expenses. We believe that by excluding the amortization of purchased intangible assets, which primarily represents technology and/or customer relationships already developed, it provides an alternative way for investors to compare our operations pre-acquisition to those post-acquisitions and to those of our competitors that have pursued internal growth strategies. However, we note that companies that grow internally will incur costs to develop intangible assets that will be expensed in the period incurred, which may make a direct comparison more difficult. C. Stock-based compensation. Included in our GAAP presentation of cost of sales and operating expenses, stock-based compensation consists of expenses for employee stock options and awards and purchase rights under our employee stock purchase plan. We exclude stock-based compensation expense from our non-GAAP measures because some investors may view it as not reflective of our core operating performance as it is a non-cash expense. For the first quarter of fiscal years 2017 and 2016, stock-based compensation was allocated as follows: First Quarter (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 Cost of sales $ 0.8 $ 1.0 Research and development 2.4 2.3 Sales and Marketing 2.2 2.0 General and administrative 8.3 8.4 $ 13.7 $ 13.7 D. Amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up. The purchase accounting entries associated with our business acquisitions require us to record inventory at its fair value, which is sometimes greater than the previous book value of the inventory. Included in our GAAP presentation of cost of sales, the increase in inventory value is amortized to cost of sales over the period that the related product is sold. We exclude inventory step-up amortization from our non-GAAP measures because it is a non-cash expense that we do not believe is indicative of our ongoing operating results. We further believe that excluding this item from our non-GAAP results is useful to investors in that it allows for period-over-period comparability. E. Acquisition / divestiture items. Included in our GAAP presentation of operating expenses, acquisition costs consist of external and incremental costs resulting directly from merger and acquisition and strategic investment activities such as legal, due diligence, and integration costs, as well as adjustments to the fair value of earn-out liabilities. Included in our GAAP presentation of non-operating income (expense), net, acquisition / divestiture items includes unusual acquisition, investment, and/or divestiture gains/losses. Although we do numerous acquisitions, the costs that have been excluded from the non-GAAP measures are costs specific to particular acquisitions. These are one-time costs that vary significantly in amount and timing and are not indicative of our core operating performance. F. Executive transition costs. Included in our GAAP presentation of operating expenses are amounts paid to the Company's former CFO upon his departure under the terms of his executive severance agreement. We excluded these payments from our non-GAAP measures because they represent non-recurring expenses and are not indicative of our ongoing operating expenses. We further believe that excluding the executive transition costs from our non-GAAP results is useful to investors in that it allows for period-over-period comparability. G. Non-GAAP items tax effected. This amount adjusts the provision for income taxes to reflect the effect of the non-GAAP items ( A ) - ( F ) on non-GAAP net income. We believe this information is useful to investors because it provides for consistent treatment of the excluded items in this non-GAAP presentation. H. Difference in GAAP and Non-GAAP tax rate. This amount represents the difference between the GAAP and Non-GAAP tax rates applied to the Non-GAAP operating income plus the Non-GAAP non-operating income (expense), net. 33 Table of Contents I. GAAP and non-GAAP tax rate %. These percentages are defined as GAAP income tax provision as a percentage of GAAP income before taxes and non-GAAP income tax provision as a percentage of non-GAAP income before taxes. We believe that investors benefit from a presentation of non-GAAP tax rate percentage as a way of facilitating a comparison to non-GAAP tax rates in prior periods. Non-GAAP Operating Income Non-GAAP operating income increased by $20.6 million or 23% for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2016 . Non-GAAP operating income as a percentage of total revenue was 17.8% for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 , compared to 15.1% for the corresponding period in fiscal 2016 . Non-GAAP operating income and Non-GAAP operating income percentage for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 increased primarily due to revenue increases across segments, excluding Geospatial, and strong operating expense control, partially offset by continued investments in growth opportunities in Transportation.