Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as "may, " "will, " "should, " "could, " "predicts, " "potential, " "continue, " "expects, " "anticipates, " "future, " "intends, " "plans, " "believes, " "estimates, " and similar expressions. These forward-looking statements involve certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, levels of activity, performance, achievements, and events to differ materially from those implied by such forward-looking statements, including but not limited to those discussed in "Risk Factors" below and elsewhere in this report, as well as in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year 2018 and in other reports Trimble files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, each as it may be amended from time to time. These forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We reserve the right to update these forward-looking statements for any reason, including the occurrence of material events, but assume no duty to update these statements to reflect subsequent events. ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable. Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact the company in the future, actual results may be different from the estimates. Management believes that, except for the adoption of the new lease standard as discussed in Note 2 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, there have been no significant changes during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting policies and estimates in the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS For a summary of recent accounting pronouncements applicable to our Consolidated Financial Statements, see Note 2 of the Notes to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1, which is incorporated herein by reference. 19 Table of Contents EXECUTIVE LEVEL OVERVIEW Trimble began operations in 1978 and was originally incorporated in California as Trimble Navigation Limited in 1981. On October 1, 2016, Trimble Navigation Limited changed its name to Trimble Inc. and changed its state of incorporation from the State of California to the State of Delaware. Trimble is a leading provider of technology solutions that optimize the work processes of office and mobile field professionals around the world. Our comprehensive work process solutions are used across a range of industries including agriculture, architecture, civil engineering, construction, government, natural resources, transportation, and utilities. Representative Trimble customers include engineering and construction firms, contractors, surveying companies, farmers and agricultural companies, long haul trucking companies, energy, utility companies, and state, federal, and municipal governments. Trimble focuses on integrating its broad technological and application capabilities to create vertically-focused, system-level solutions that transform how work is done within the industries we serve. The integration of sensors, software, connectivity, and information in our portfolio gives us the unique ability to provide an information model specific to the customers workflow. For example, in construction, our strategy is centered on the concept of a constructible model that is at the center of our Connected Construction solutions, which provide real-time, connected, and cohesive information environments for the design, build, and operational phases of construction projects. In agriculture, we continue to develop Connected Farm solutions to optimize operations across the agriculture workflow. In long haul trucking, our Connected Fleet solutions provide transportation companies with tools to enhance fuel efficiency, safety, and transparency through connected vehicles and fleets across the enterprise. Our growth strategy is centered on multiple elements: Focus on attractive markets with significant growth and profitability potential - We focus on large markets historically underserved by technology that offer significant potential for long-term revenue growth, profitability, and market leadership. Our core industries such as construction, agriculture, and transportation markets are each multi-trillion dollar global industries that operate in increasingly demanding environments with technology adoption in the early phases relative to other industries. With the emergence of mobile computing capabilities, the increasing technological know-how of end users, and the compelling return on investment to our customers, we believe many of our markets are attractive for substituting Trimbles technology and solutions in place of traditional operating methods. Domain knowledge and technological innovation that benefit a diverse customer base - We have redefined our technological focus from hardware-driven point solutions to integrated work process solutions by developing domain expertise and heavily reinvesting in R&D and acquisitions. We have been spending approximately 15% of revenue over the past two years on R&D and currently have over 1,200 unique patents. We intend to continue to take advantage of our technology portfolio and deep domain knowledge to quickly and cost-effectively deliver specific, targeted solutions to each of the vertical markets we serve. We look for opportunities where the opportunity for technological change is high and that have a requirement for the integration of multiple technologies into complete vertical solutions. Increasing focus on software and subscription offerings - Software and subscription services are increasingly important elements of our solutions and are core to our growth strategy. Trimble has an open application programming interface philosophy and open vendor environment, which leads to increased adoption of our software and subscription offerings. We believe that increased recurring revenue from these solutions will provide us with enhanced business visibility over time. Professional services constitute an additional growth channel that helps our customers integrate and optimize the use of our offerings in their environment. Geographic expansion with localization strategy - We view international expansion as an important element of our strategy, and we continue to position ourselves in geographic markets that will serve as important sources of future growth. We currently have a physical presence in over 40 countries and distribution channels in over 100 countries. Optimized go to market strategies to best access our markets - We utilize vertically-focused distribution channels that leverage domain expertise to best serve the needs of individual markets domestically and abroad. These channels include independent dealers, joint ventures, original equipment manufacturers ("OEM") sales and distribution alliances with key partners, such as CNH Global, Caterpillar, and Nikon, as well as direct sales to end-users, that provide us with broad market reach and localization capabilities to effectively serve our markets. Strategic acquisitions - Organic growth continues to be our primary focus, while acquisitions serve to enhance our market position. We acquire businesses that bring domain expertise, technology, products, or distribution capabilities that augment our portfolio and allow us to penetrate existing markets more effectively, or to establish a market beachhead. Our success in targeting and effectively integrating acquisitions is an important aspect of our growth strategy. Trimbles focus on these growth drivers has led over time to growth in revenue and profitability as well as an increasingly diversified business model. Software and subscription growth is driving increased recurring revenue, leading to improved visibility in some of our businesses. As our solutions have expanded, our go to market model has also evolved, with a balanced mix between direct, distribution, and OEM customers, and an increasing number of enterprise level customer relationships. 20 Table of Contents For the first quarter of fiscal 2019 , total revenue increased by $59.4 million compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018 . By geography, North America and Europe were up, and to a lesser extent, rest of world. Asia Pacific was slightly down year over year. We continue to experience a shift in revenue towards a more significant mix of software, recurring revenue and services, driven both by organic growth and acquisitions. During fiscal 2018, we acquired six businesses, with total cash consideration of $1.8 billion. The largest acquisition was Viewpoint, which we acquired in the third quarter of 2018 with total cash consideration of $1.2 billion. Viewpoint is a provider of construction management software, which integrates a contractors financial and resource management to their project operations in the field. The acquisition is highly complementary to our construction technology portfolio and positions us to further our strategy to lead the industry's transformation. With Viewpoint, we offer customers a central workflow platform for delivering integrated end-to-end construction management, while further enabling connectivity across the complete construction lifecycle. Our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income includes the operating results of the businesses from the date of acquisition. Seasonality of Business Construction equipment revenue, within our Buildings and Infrastructure segment, historically has been higher in early spring. Our agricultural equipment revenue, within our Resources and Utilities segment, has historically been the highest in the first quarter, followed by the second quarter, reflecting buying in anticipation of the spring planting season in the Northern hemisphere. However, overall as a company, as a result of diversification of our business across segments and the increased impact of subscription revenues, we may experience less seasonality in the future. Changes in global macroeconomic conditions could also impact the level of seasonality we experience. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview The following table is a summary of revenue, gross margin, and operating income for the periods indicated and should be read in conjunction with the narrative descriptions below: First Quarter of 2019 2018 (In millions) Revenue: Product $ 488.4 $ 497.8 Service 159.2 128.8 Subscription 154.0 115.6 Total revenue 801.6 742.2 Gross margin $ 438.3 $ 396.2 Gross margin % 54.7 % 53.4 % Operating income $ 86.3 $ 64.2 Operating income % 10.8 % 8.6 % Diluted earnings per share $ 0.25 $ 0.23 Total non-GAAP revenue * $ 804.5 $ 745.1 Non-GAAP operating income * $ 152.9 $ 141.9 Non-GAAP operating income % * 19.0 % 19.0 % Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share * $ 0.45 $ 0.45 * See SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES for a reconciliation of our GAAP results to our non-GAAP measures. Revenue Total revenue increased $59.4 million or 8% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018 . Excluding unfavorable foreign current impacts of approximately 2%, revenue increased due to the Viewpoint acquisition and, to a lesser extent, organic growth in Buildings and Infrastructure, Transportation, and Resources and Utilities. The increases 21 Table of Contents were partially offset by Geospatial, which was down. We consider organic growth to include revenue from acquisitions completed in, or before, the corresponding prior year period. By revenue category, for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, product revenue decreased $9.4 million or 2% , service revenue increased $ 30.4 million or 24% , and subscription revenue increased $38.4 million or 33% , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. Product revenue decreased primarily due to weakness in our Geospatial OEM hardware sales in Asia Pacific and, to a lesser extent, prior year higher hardware demand in Transportation due to Electronic Logging Device (ELD) regulatory deadlines. Service and subscription revenue were significantly up due to Viewpoint software maintenance and subscription revenue and, to a lesser extent, organic growth, particularly in Buildings and Infrastructure and Transportation subscription revenue. Gross Margin Gross margin varies due to a combination of factors including product mix, pricing, distribution channel, and production volumes. Gross margin increased by $42.1 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018 , primarily due to the Viewpoint acquisition and increased revenue growth in Buildings and Infrastructure and Transportation. Gross margin as a percentage of total revenue was 54.7% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 , compared to 53.4% for the corresponding period in fiscal 2018 , primarily due to improved revenue mix across all segments, with the exception of Geospatial, which was down due to revenue declines. Operating Income Operating income increased by $22.1 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018 . Operating income as a percentage of total revenue was 10.8% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 , compared to 8.6% for the corresponding period in fiscal 2018 . For the first quarter of fiscal 2019 , the increase in operating income was primarily attributable to organic revenue and gross margin expansion, and operating expense control in Buildings and Infrastructure, including the civil and building construction product families, the Viewpoint acquisition, and lower corporate expense, as the prior year included compensation expense related to the acceleration of acquisition stock options. The operating income increase was partially offset by Geospatial, which was down due to revenue declines. Research and Development, Sales and Marketing and General and Administrative Expense Research and development (R&D), sales and marketing (S&M) and general and administrative (G&A) expense are summarized in the following table: First Quarter of 2019 2018 (In millions) Research and development $ 118.2 $ 109.3 Percentage of revenue 15 % 15 % Sales and marketing $ 127.4 $ 122.1 Percentage of revenue 16 % 16 % General and administrative $ 82.8 $ 81.6 Percentage of revenue 10 % 11 % Total $ 328.4 $ 313.0 Overall, R&D, S&M and G&A expense increased by approximately $15.4 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018 . Research and development expense increased by $8.9 million or 8% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018 . As compared to the prior year, the increase in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was primarily due to the impact of Viewpoint expense not applicable in the prior corresponding period, and to a lesser extent, increased compensation expense associated with increased headcount, particularly in Transportation, partially offset by favorable foreign currency impacts. Overall, research and development spending was 15% of revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and 2018 . We believe that the development and introduction of new products are critical to our future success and we expect to continue active development of new products. 22 Table of Contents Sales and marketing expense increased by $5.3 million or 4% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018 . As compared to the prior year, the increase in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to the impact of Viewpoint expense not applicable in the prior corresponding period, partially offset by lower compensation expense and favorable foreign currency impacts. Overall, spending for sales and marketing was 16% of revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and 2018 . General and administrative expense increased by $1.2 million , or 1% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018 . As compared to the prior year, the increase in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to the impact of Viewpoint expense not applicable in the prior corresponding period, partially offset by lower compensation and stock based compensation expense, as well as lower consulting costs. Overall, general and administrative spending was 10% of revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 , compared to 11% in the corresponding period in fiscal 2018 . Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets First Quarter of 2019 2018 (In millions) Cost of sales $ 24.2 $ 23.1 Operating expenses 20.1 17.4 Total amortization expense of purchased intangibles $ 44.3 $ 40.5 Total amortization expense of purchased intangibles represented 6% of revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and 2018. The expense for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was higher as compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018 due to new acquisitions amortization, primarily the Viewpoint acquisition, which was not applicable in the prior year, partially offset by the expiration of prior acquisitions' amortization. Non-operating Income (Expense), Net The components of Non-operating income (expense), net, were as follows: First Quarter of 2019 2018 (In millions) Interest expense, net $ (21.9 ) $ (9.5 ) Foreign currency transaction gain (loss), net (0.9 ) 3.7 Income from equity method investments, net 8.8 4.9 Other income, net 2.9 3.4 Total non-operating income (expense), net $ (11.1 ) $ 2.5 Non-operating income (expense), net decreased by $13.6 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018 . The decrease for the first quarter was primarily due to higher interest costs associated with increased debt, and to a lesser extent, fluctuations in foreign currency transaction gain/(loss), partially offset by an increase in joint venture profitability. Income Tax Provision Our effective income tax rate, after including discrete items, for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was 17% , compared to 12% in the corresponding period in fiscal 2018 , primarily due to a one-time tax benefit from foreign deferred tax adjustments in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Our effective tax rate is lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% primarily due to favorable tax rates associated with certain earnings from operations in lower-tax jurisdictions, a benefit from U.S. federal R&D credit and stock-based compensation deductions. 23 Table of Contents Results by Segment Our Chief Executive Officer (chief operating decision maker) views and evaluates operations based on the results of our reportable operating segments under our management reporting system. For additional discussion of our segments, see Note 6 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table is a summary of revenue and operating income by segment: First Quarter of 2019 2018 (In millions) Buildings and Infrastructure Segment revenue $ 292.0 $ 224.7 Segment revenue as a percent of total revenue 36 % 30 % Segment operating income $ 61.4 $ 43.5 Segment operating income as a percent of segment revenue 21 % 19 % Geospatial Segment revenue $ 161.2 $ 174.5 Segment revenue as a percent of total revenue 20 % 24 % Segment operating income $ 29.4 $ 37.3 Segment operating income as a percent of segment revenue 18 % 21 % Resources and Utilities Segment revenue $ 159.3 $ 159.2 Segment revenue as a percent of total revenue 20 % 21 % Segment operating income $ 51.0 $ 51.7 Segment operating income as a percent of segment revenue 32 % 32 % Transportation Segment revenue $ 189.1 $ 183.8 Segment revenue as a percent of total revenue 24 % 25 % Segment operating income $ 31.2 $ 30.4 Segment operating income as a percent of segment revenue 16 % 17 % 24 Table of Contents A reconciliation of our consolidated segment operating income to consolidated income before taxes follows: First Quarter of 2019 2018 (In millions) Consolidated segment operating income $ 174.2 $ 165.3 Unallocated corporate expense (21.3 ) (23.4 ) Restructuring charges (3.7 ) (1.4 ) Acquired deferred revenue adjustment (2.9 ) (2.9 ) Amortization of purchased intangible assets (44.3 ) (40.5 ) Stock-based compensation (16.3 ) (17.4 ) Amortization of acquired capitalized commissions 1.7 0.5 Acquisition / divestiture items (1.1 ) (16.0 ) Consolidated operating income 86.3 64.2 Non-operating income (expense), net: (11.1 ) 2.5 Consolidated income before taxes $ 75.2 $ 66.7 Buildings and Infrastructure Buildings and Infrastructure revenue increased by $67.3 million or 30% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018 . Segment operating income increased $17.9 million or 41% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 , compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018 . For the first quarter of fiscal 2019, excluding unfavorable foreign currency impacts of approximately 3%, revenue increased due to the Viewpoint acquisition, including software maintenance and subscription revenue, and to a lesser extent, organic growth driven primarily by increased software and subscription revenue. Building construction, including e-Builder, experienced organic growth in North America, and to a lesser extent, Europe, and Asia Pacific. Civil engineering and construction experienced organic growth in North America due to software and subscription growth; although hardware machine sales were flat, lower U.S. government demand was primarily offset by channel growth reflecting the relative strength of our distribution network and new product introductions. Segment operating income increased for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 primarily due to organic revenue growth and gross margin expansion due to higher software and subscription product mix, as well as the Viewpoint acquisition. Geospatial Geospatial revenue decreased $13.3 million or 8% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018 . Segment operating income decreased by $7.9 million or 21% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 , compared to the corresponding periods in fiscal 2018 . For the first quarter of fiscal 2019, excluding unfavorable foreign currency impacts of approximately 2%, revenue was down due to weakness in our OEM hardware sales in Asia Pacific. The OEM hardware weakness was partially offset by core geospatial product sales which were up in Europe, partially offset by North America sales which were down. Segment operating income decreased for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 primarily due to the revenue decline. Resources and Utilities Resources and Utilities revenue increased $0.1 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018 . Segment operating income decreased by $0.7 million or 1% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018 . For the first quarter of fiscal 2019, excluding unfavorable foreign currency impacts of approximately 3%, revenue was up due to organic precision agriculture hardware sales. The reseller channel in Europe as well as the OEM channel were up. The reseller channel in North America was down due to continuing market uncertainties, including China soybean tariffs on U.S goods. Segment operating income for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was slightly down, due to increased operating expense. 25 Table of Contents Transportation Transportation revenue increased by $5.3 million or 3% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018 . Segment operating income increased $0.8 million or 3% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018 . For the first quarter of fiscal 2019, excluding unfavorable foreign currency impacts of approximately 1%, revenue was up due to continued subscription growth from new and existing transportation and logistics customers due to the ELD regulatory mandate as well as subscription growth of our mapping products. Year over year growth was partially offset by higher hardware demand in the prior year due to ELD regulatory deadlines. Segment operating income and operating income percentage increased for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 primarily due to revenue growth and gross margin expansion due to higher subscription product mix, partially offset by increased research and development investments. OFF-BALANCE SHEET FINANCINGS AND LIABILITIES We do not have any off-balance sheet financing arrangements or liabilities, guarantee contracts, retained or contingent interests in transferred assets or any obligation arising out of a material variable interest in an unconsolidated entity. We do not have any majority-owned subsidiaries that are not included in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Additionally, we do not have any interest in, or relationship with, any special purpose entities. In the normal course of business to facilitate sales of our products, we indemnify other parties, including customers, lessors and parties to other transactions with us, with respect to certain matters. We have agreed to hold the other party harmless against losses arising from a breach of representations or covenants, or out of intellectual property infringement or other claims made against certain parties. These agreements may limit the time within which an indemnification claim can be made and the amount of the claim. From time to time, in connection with divesting some of our businesses or assets, we may also indemnify purchasers for certain matters in the normal course of business, such as breaches of representations, covenants or excluded liabilities. In addition, we entered into indemnification agreements with our officers and directors, and our bylaws contain similar indemnification obligations to our agents. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments made by us under these agreements were not material and no liabilities have been recorded for these obligations on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and fiscal year end 2018 . LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES First Quarter of Fiscal Year End As of 2019 2018 (In millions, except percentages) Cash and cash equivalents $ 216.7 $ 172.5 As a percentage of total assets 3.7 % 3.0 % Principal balance of outstanding debt $ 1,907.1 $ 1,981.9 First Quarter of 2019 2018 (In millions) Cash provided by operating activities $ 147.6 $ 82.9 Cash used in investing activities (9.6 ) (353.5 ) Cash used in financing activities (94.3 ) 180.3 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 0.5 6.3 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 44.2 $ (84.0 ) Cash and Cash Equivalents and Short-Term Investments As of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2019 , cash and cash equivalents totaled $216.7 million compared to $172.5 million as of fiscal year end 2018 . 26 Table of Contents We believe that our cash and cash equivalents, together with our borrowings under the commitments for our credit facilities and senior notes, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs, debt service, and planned capital expenditures in the next twelve months. Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities was $147.6 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 , compared to $82.9 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 . The increase of $64.7 million was primarily driven by increased net income, after adjusting for non-cash items, and a decrease working capital requirements, particularly inventory purchases and timing of accounts receivable payments. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities was $9.6 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 , compared to $353.5 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 . The decrease of cash used in investing activities of $343.9 million was primarily due to the purchase of e-Builder for $485.5 million, partially offset by proceeds from the sale of short-term investments in the prior year. Financing Activities Cash used by financing activities was $94.3 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 , compared to cash provided by financing activities of $180.3 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 . The decrease in cash provided (used) by financing activities of $274.6 million was primarily driven by the repayment of debt, net of borrowings, as compared to the increase in debt proceeds, net of repayments, in the prior year used to fund the e-Builder acquisition. Accounts Receivable and Inventory Metrics First Quarter of Fiscal Year End As of 2019 2018 Accounts receivable days sales outstanding 60 59 Inventory turns per year 5.1 4.9 Accounts receivable days sales outstanding was 60 days as of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2019 , compared to 59 days as of the end of fiscal 2018 . Our accounts receivable days sales outstanding are calculated based on ending accounts receivable, net, divided by revenue for the corresponding fiscal quarter, times a quarterly average of 91 days. Our inventory turns were 5.1 as of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2019 , compared to 4.9 as of the end of fiscal 2018 . Our inventory turnover is calculated based on total cost of sales for the most recent twelve months divided by average ending inventory, net, for this same twelve month period. Debt During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we repaid $72.8 million of debt, net of borrowings. Each of our debt agreements requires us to maintain compliance with certain debt covenants, all of which we were in compliance with at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2019. Refer to Note 7 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding our debt. SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES To supplement our condensed consolidated financial information, we believe that the following information is helpful to an overall understanding of our past financial performance and prospects for the future. Our non-GAAP measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures. The non-GAAP financial measures and detailed explanations to the adjustments to comparable GAAP measures are below. First Quarter 2019 2018 Dollar % of Dollar % of (In millions, except per share amounts) Amount Revenue Amount Revenue REVENUE: GAAP revenue: $ 801.6 $ 742.2 Acquired deferred revenue adjustment ( A ) 2.9 2.9 Non-GAAP Revenue: $ 804.5 $ 745.1 GROSS MARGIN: 27 Table of Contents GAAP gross margin: $ 438.3 54.7 % $ 396.2 53.4 % Acquired deferred revenue adjustment ( A ) 2.9 2.9 Restructuring charges ( B ) 0.2 (0.2 ) Amortization of purchased intangible assets ( C ) 24.2 23.1 Stock-based compensation ( D ) 1.3 1.1 Acquisition / divestiture items ( E ) 2.0 Non-GAAP gross margin: $ 466.9 58.0 % $ 425.1 57.1 % OPERATING EXPENSES: GAAP operating expenses: $ 352.0 43.9 % $ 332.0 44.7 % Restructuring charges ( B ) (3.5 ) (1.6 ) Amortization of purchased intangible assets ( C ) (20.1 ) (17.4 ) Stock-based compensation ( D ) (15.0 ) (16.3 ) Acquisition / divestiture items ( E ) (1.1 ) (14.0 ) Amortization of acquired capitalized commissions ( F ) 1.7 $ 0.5 Non-GAAP operating expenses: $ 314.0 39.0 % $ 283.2 38.0 % OPERATING INCOME: GAAP operating income: $ 86.3 10.8 % $ 64.2 8.6 % Acquired deferred revenue adjustment ( A ) 2.9 2.9 Restructuring charges ( B ) 3.7 1.4 Amortization of purchased intangible assets ( C ) 44.3 40.5 Stock-based compensation ( D ) 16.3 17.4 Acquisition / divestiture items ( E ) 1.1 16.0 Amortization of acquired capitalized commissions ( F ) (1.7 ) (0.5 ) Non-GAAP operating income: $ 152.9 19.0 % $ 141.9 19.0 % NON-OPERATING INCOME (EXPENSE), NET: GAAP non-operating income (expense), net: $ (11.1 ) $ 2.5 Acquisition / divestiture items ( E ) 0.3 (2.8 ) Non-GAAP non-operating expense, net: $ (10.8 ) $ (0.3 ) GAAP and Non-GAAP Tax Rate % GAAP and Non-GAAP Tax Rate % ( I ) ( I ) INCOME TAX PROVISION: GAAP income tax provision: $ 12.8 17 % $ 8.0 12 % Non-GAAP items tax effected ( G ) 11.4 9.0 Difference in GAAP and Non-GAAP tax rate ( H ) 4.2 9.9 Non-GAAP income tax provision: $ 28.4 20 % $ 26.9 19 % NET INCOME: GAAP net income attributable to Trimble Inc.: $ 62.3 $ 58.5 Acquired deferred revenue adjustment ( A ) 2.9 2.9 Restructuring charges ( B ) 3.7 1.4 Amortization of purchased intangible assets ( C ) 44.3 40.5 Stock-based compensation ( D ) 16.3 17.4 Acquisition / divestiture items ( E ) 1.4 13.2 28 Table of Contents Amortization of acquired capitalized commissions ( F ) (1.7 ) (0.5 ) Non-GAAP tax adjustments ( G ) + ( H ) (15.6 ) (18.9 ) Non-GAAP net income attributable to Trimble Inc.: $ 113.6 $ 114.5 DILUTED NET INCOME PER SHARE: GAAP diluted net income per share attributable to Trimble Inc.: $ 0.25 $ 0.23 Acquired deferred revenue adjustment ( A ) 0.01 0.01 Restructuring charges ( B ) 0.02 Amortization of purchased intangible assets ( C ) 0.17 0.16 Stock-based compensation ( D ) 0.06 0.07 Acquisition / divestiture items ( E ) 0.01 0.05 Amortization of acquired capitalized commissions ( F ) (0.01 ) Non-GAAP tax adjustments ( G ) + ( H ) (0.06 ) (0.07 ) Non-GAAP diluted net income per share attributable to Trimble Inc.: $ 0.45 $ 0.45 ADJUSTED EBITDA: Non-GAAP operating income: $ 152.9 $ 141.9 Depreciation expense 10.2 8.5 Income from equity method investments, net 8.8 4.9 Adjusted EBITDA $ 171.9 $ 155.3 Non-GAAP Revenue and Operating Income Results Non-GAAP revenue increased by $59.4 million or 8% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 , compared to the corresponding periods in fiscal 2018 . Excluding unfavorable foreign current impacts of approximately 2%, revenue increased approximately 10% primarily due to the Viewpoint acquisition and to a lesser extent, organic growth in Buildings and Infrastructure, Transportation, and Resources and Utilities. The increases were partially offset by Geospatial revenue declines. Non-GAAP operating income increased by $11.0 million or 8% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 , compared to the corresponding periods in fiscal 2018 , primarily due to organic growth and operating expense control in Buildings and Infrastructure, including civil and building construction product families, and to a lesser extent, the Viewpoint acquisition, partially offset by Geospatial revenue declines. Non-GAAP operating income as a percentage of total revenue was 19.0% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and was flat, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. Non-GAAP Explanations Non-GAAP revenue We believe this measure helps investors understand the performance of our business as non-GAAP revenue excludes the effects of certain acquired deferred revenue that was written down to fair value in purchase accounting. Management believes that excluding fair value purchase accounting adjustments more closely correlates with the ordinary and ongoing course of the acquired companys operations and facilitates analysis of revenue growth and business trends. Non-GAAP gross margin We believe our investors benefit by understanding our non-GAAP gross margin as a way of understanding how product mix, pricing decisions and manufacturing costs influence our business. Non-GAAP gross margin excludes the effects of certain acquired deferred revenue that was written down to fair value in purchase accounting, restructuring charges, amortization of purchased intangible assets, stock-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up, and acquisition/divestiture items associated with the acceleration of acquisition stock options from GAAP gross margin. We believe that these adjustments offer investors additional information that may be useful to view trends in our gross margin performance. 29 Table of Contents Non-GAAP operating expenses We believe this measure is important to investors evaluating our non-GAAP spending in relation to revenue. Non-GAAP operating expenses exclude restructuring charges, amortization of purchased intangible assets, stock-based compensation, and acquisition/divestiture items associated with external and incremental costs resulting directly from merger and acquisition activities such as: legal, due diligence, integration, and other costs including the acceleration of acquisition stock options, adjustment to the fair value of earn-out liabilities, and the effects of certain acquired capitalized commissions that were eliminated in purchase accounting from GAAP operating expenses. We believe that these adjustments offer investors supplemental information to facilitate comparison of our operating expenses to our prior results. Non-GAAP operating income We believe our investors benefit by understanding our non-GAAP operating income trends, which are driven by revenue, gross margin, and spending. Non-GAAP operating income excludes the effects of purchase accounting adjustments to certain acquired deferred revenue and acquired capitalized commissions, restructuring charges, amortization of purchased intangible assets, stock-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up, and acquisition/divestiture items from GAAP operating income. We believe that these adjustments offer an alternative means for our investors to evaluate current operating performance compared to results of other periods. Non-GAAP non-operating income (expense), net We believe this measure helps investors evaluate our non-operating income trends. Non-GAAP non-operating income (expense), net, excludes acquisition/divestiture gains/losses associated with unusual acquisition related items such as intangible asset impairment charges, gains or losses related to the acquisition or sale of certain businesses and investments, and debt issuance costs. We believe that these exclusions provide investors with a supplemental view of our ongoing financial results. Non-GAAP income tax provision We believe that providing investors with the non-GAAP income tax provision is beneficial because it provides for consistent treatment of the excluded items in our non-GAAP presentation. Non-GAAP net income This measure provides a supplemental view of net income trends, which are driven by non-GAAP income before taxes and our non-GAAP tax rate. Non-GAAP net income excludes the effects of purchase accounting adjustments to certain acquired deferred revenue and acquired capitalized commissions, restructuring charges, amortization of purchased intangible assets, stock-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up, acquisition/divestiture items, debt issuance costs, and non-GAAP tax adjustments from GAAP net income. We believe our investors benefit from understanding these adjustments and from an alternative view of our net income performance compared to our past net income performance. Non-GAAP diluted net income per share We believe our investors benefit by understanding our non-GAAP operating performance as reflected in a per share calculation as a way of measuring non-GAAP operating performance by ownership in the company. Non-GAAP diluted net income per share excludes the effects of purchase accounting adjustments to certain acquired deferred revenue and acquired capitalized commissions, restructuring charges, amortization of purchased intangible assets, stock-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up, acquisition/divestiture items, debt issuance costs, and non-GAAP tax adjustments from GAAP diluted net income per share. We believe that these adjustments offer investors a useful view of our diluted net income per share compared to our past diluted net income per share. Adjusted EBITDA We believe that adjusted EBITDA assists investors in comparing our performance over various reporting periods on a consistent basis. Adjusted EBITDA refers to non-GAAP operating income plus depreciation and income from equity method investments. We also believe the measure provides useful information to investors in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and board of directors. These non-GAAP measures can be used to evaluate our historical and prospective financial performance, as well as our performance relative to competitors. We believe some of our investors track our ""core operating performance"" as a means of evaluating our performance in the ordinary, ongoing and customary course of our operations. Core operating performance excludes items that are non-cash, not expected to recur, or not reflective of ongoing financial results. Management also believes that looking at our core operating performance provides a supplemental way to provide consistency in period to period comparisons. Accordingly, 30 Table of Contents management excludes from non-GAAP those items relating to the effects of purchase accounting adjustments to certain acquired deferred revenue and acquired capitalized commissions, restructuring charges, amortization of purchased intangible assets, stock-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up, acquisition/divestiture items, debt issuance costs, and non-GAAP tax adjustments. (A). Acquired deferred revenue adjustment . Purchase accounting generally requires us to write-down acquired deferred revenue to fair value. Our GAAP revenue includes the fair value impact from purchase accounting for post contract support and subscriptions contracts assumed in connection with our acquisitions. The non-GAAP adjustment to our revenue is intended to reflect the full amount of such revenue. We believe this adjustment is useful to investors as a measure of the ongoing performance of our business and facilitates analysis of revenue growth and business trends. (B). Restructuring charges . Included in our GAAP presentation of cost of sales and operating expenses, restructuring charges recorded are primarily for employee compensation resulting from reductions in employee headcount in connection with our company restructurings. We exclude restructuring charges from our non-GAAP measures because we believe they do not reflect expected future operating expenses, they are not indicative of our core operating performance, and they are not meaningful in comparisons to our past operating performance. We have incurred restructuring expense in each of the periods presented. However the amount incurred can vary significantly based on whether a restructuring has occurred in the period and the timing of headcount reductions. (C). Amortization of purchased intangible assets . Included in our GAAP presentation of gross margin and operating expenses is amortization of purchased intangible assets. U.S. GAAP accounting requires that intangible assets are recorded at fair value and amortized over their useful lives. Consequently, the timing and size of our acquisitions will cause our operating results to vary from period to period, making a comparison to past performance difficult for investors. This accounting treatment may cause differences when comparing our results to companies that grow internally because the fair value assigned to the intangible assets acquired through acquisition may significantly exceed the equivalent expenses that a company may incur for similar efforts when performed internally. Furthermore, the useful life that we use to amortize our intangible assets over may be substantially different from the time period that an internal growth company incurs and recognizes such expenses. We believe that by excluding the amortization of purchased intangible assets, which primarily represents technology and/or customer relationships already developed, this provides an alternative way for investors to compare our operations pre-acquisition to those post-acquisition and to those of our competitors that have pursued internal growth strategies. However, we note that companies that grow internally will incur costs to develop intangible assets that will be expensed in the period incurred, which may make a direct comparison more difficult. (D). Stock-based compensation . Included in our GAAP presentation of cost of sales and operating expenses, stock-based compensation consists of expenses for employee stock options and awards and purchase rights under our employee stock purchase plan. We exclude stock-based compensation expense from our non-GAAP measures because some investors may view it as not reflective of our core operating performance as it is a non-cash expense. For the first quarter of fiscal years 2019 and 2018, stock-based compensation was allocated as follows: First Quarter (Dollars in millions) 2019 2018 Cost of sales $ 1.3 $ 1.1 Research and development 3.5 3.1 Sales and Marketing 2.7 2.3 General and administrative 8.8 10.9 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 16.3 $ 17.4 (E). Amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up. The purchase accounting entries associated with our business acquisitions require us to record inventory at its fair value, which is sometimes greater than the previous book value of the inventory. Included in our GAAP presentation, the increase in inventory value is amortized to cost of sales over the period that the related product is sold. We exclude inventory step-up amortization from our non-GAAP measures because it is a non-cash expense that we do not believe is indicative of our ongoing operating results. We further believe that excluding this item from our non-GAAP results is useful to investors in that it allows for period-over-period comparability. (F). Amortization of acquired capitalized commissions . Purchase accounting generally requires us to eliminate capitalized sales commissions balances as of the acquisition date. Our GAAP sales and marketing expenses generally do not reflect the amortization of these capitalized sales commissions balances. The non-GAAP adjustment to increase our sales and marketing 31 Table of Contents expenses is intended to reflect the full amount of amortization related to such balances as though the acquired companies operated independently in the periods presented. We believe this adjustment to sales and marketing expenses is useful to investors as a measure of the ongoing performance of our business. (G). Non-GAAP items tax effected . This amount adjusts the provision for income taxes to reflect the effect of the non-GAAP items ( A ) - ( F ) on non-GAAP net income. We believe this information is useful to investors because it provides for consistent treatment of the excluded items in this non-GAAP presentation. (H). Difference in GAAP and Non-GAAP tax rate . This amount represents the difference between the GAAP and Non-GAAP tax rates applied to the Non-GAAP operating income plus the Non-GAAP non-operating income (expense), net. We believe that investors benefit from excluding this amount from our non-GAAP income tax provision because it facilitates a comparison of the non-GAAP tax provision in the current and prior periods. (I). GAAP and non-GAAP tax rate percentages . These percentages are defined as GAAP income tax provision as a percentage of GAAP income before taxes and non-GAAP income tax provision as a percentage of non-GAAP income before taxes. We believe that investors benefit from a presentation of non-GAAP tax rate percentage as a way of facilitating a comparison to non-GAAP tax rates in prior periods.