Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as "may, " "will, " "should, " "could, " "predicts, " "potential, " "continue, " "expects, " "anticipates, " "future, " "intends, " "plans, " "believes, " "estimates, " and similar expressions. These forward-looking statements involve certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, levels of activity, performance, achievements, and events to differ materially from those implied by such forward-looking statements, including but not limited to those discussed in "Risk Factors" below and elsewhere in this report, as well as in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year 2017 and in other reports Trimble files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, each as it may be amended from time to time. These forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We reserve the right to update these forward-looking statements for any reason, including the occurrence of material events, but assume no duty to update these statements to reflect subsequent events. ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable. Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact the company in the future, actual results may be different from the estimates. Management believes that, except for the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard as discussed in Note 2, there have been no significant changes during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting policies and estimates in the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS For a summary of recent accounting pronouncements applicable to our Consolidated Financial Statements, see Note 2 to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1, which is incorporated herein by reference. 28 Table of Contents EXECUTIVE LEVEL OVERVIEW Trimble began operations in 1978 and was originally incorporated in California as Trimble Navigation Limited in 1981. On October 1, 2016, Trimble Navigation Limited changed its name to Trimble Inc. ("Trimble" or the "Company") and changed its state of incorporation from the State of California to the State of Delaware. The Buildings and Infrastructure segment primarily serves customers working in architecture, engineering, construction and operations and maintenance. The Geospatial segment primarily serves customers working in surveying, engineering, government and land management. The Resources and Utilities segment primarily serves customers working in agriculture, forestry, and utilities. The Transportation segment primarily serves customers working in transportation, including transportation and logistics, automotive, rail and military aviation. Trimble is a leading provider of technology solutions that optimize the work processes of office and mobile field professionals around the world. Our comprehensive work process solutions are used across a range of industries including agriculture, architecture, civil engineering, construction, government, natural resources, transportation and utilities. Representative Trimble customers include engineering and construction firms, contractors, surveying companies, farmers and agricultural companies, transportation and logistics companies, energy, mining and utility companies, and state, federal and municipal governments. Trimble focuses on integrating its broad technological and application capabilities to create vertically-focused, system-level solutions that transform how work is done within the industries we serve. The integration of sensors, software, connectivity, and information in our portfolio gives us the unique ability to provide an information model specific to the customers workflow. For example, in construction, our strategy is centered on the concept of a constructible model which is at the center of our Connected Construction solutions which provide real-time, connected, and cohesive information environments for the design, build, and operational phases of construction projects. In agriculture, we continue to develop Connected Farm solutions to optimize operations across the agriculture workflow. In transportation and logistics, our Connected Fleet solutions provide transportation companies with tools to enhance fuel efficiency, safety, and transparency through connected vehicles and fleets across the enterprise. Our growth strategy is centered on multiple elements: Focus on attractive markets with significant growth and profitability potential -We focus on large markets historically underserved by technology that offer significant potential for long-term revenue growth, profitability and market leadership. Our core industries such as construction, agriculture, and transportation markets are each multi-trillion dollar global industries which operate in increasingly demanding environments with technology adoption in the early phases relative to other industries. With the emergence of mobile computing capabilities, the increasing technological know-how of end users and the compelling return on investment to our customers, we believe many of our markets are attractive for substituting Trimbles technology and solutions in place of traditional operating methods. Domain knowledge and technological innovation that benefit a diverse customer base - We have over time redefined our technological focus from hardware-driven point solutions to integrated work process solutions by developing domain expertise and heavily reinvesting in R&D and acquisitions. We have been spending approximately 14% to 15% of revenue over the past several years on R&D and currently have over 1,200 unique patents. We intend to continue to take advantage of our technology portfolio and deep domain knowledge to quickly and cost-effectively deliver specific, targeted solutions to each of the vertical markets we serve. We look for opportunities where the opportunity for technological change is high and which have a requirement for the integration of multiple technologies into complete vertical solutions. Increasing focus on software and services - Software and services are increasingly important elements of our solutions and are core to our growth strategy. Trimble has an open application programming interface philosophy and open vendor environment which leads to increased adoption of our software offerings. We believe that increased recurring revenue from these solutions will provide us with enhanced business visibility over time. Professional services constitute an additional growth channel that helps our customers integrate and optimize the use of our offerings in their environment. Geographic expansion with localization strategy - We view international expansion as an important element of our strategy and we continue to position ourselves in geographic markets that will serve as important sources of future growth. We currently have a physical presence in over 40 countries and distribution channels in over 100 countries. In the first quarter of 2018 , over 53% of our sales were to customers located in countries outside of the U.S. Optimized go to market strategies to best access our markets - We utilize vertically-focused distribution channels that leverage domain expertise to best serve the needs of individual markets domestically and abroad. These channels include independent dealers, joint ventures, original equipment manufacturers ("OEM") sales, and distribution alliances with key partners, such as CNH Global, Caterpillar, and Nikon, as well as direct sales to end-users, that provide us with broad market reach and localization capabilities to effectively serve our markets. Strategic acquisitions - Organic growth continues to be our primary focus, while acquisitions serve to enhance our market position. We acquire businesses that bring domain expertise, technology, products, or distribution capabilities that augment 29 Table of Contents our portfolio and allow us to penetrate existing markets more effectively, or to establish a market beachhead. Our success in targeting and effectively integrating acquisitions is an important aspect of our growth strategy. Trimbles focus on these growth drivers has led over time to growth in revenue and profitability as well as an increasingly diversified business model. Software and services growth is driving increased recurring revenue, leading to improved visibility in some of our businesses. As our solutions have expanded, our go to market model has also evolved, with a balanced mix between direct, distribution and OEM customers, and an increasing number of enterprise level customer relationships. For the first quarter of fiscal 2018 , total revenue increased by $131.6 million compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2017 . By geography, North America, Europe and Asia-Pacific were up, and the rest of the world was slightly down year over year. We continue to experience a shift in revenue towards a more significant mix of software, recurring revenue, and services, driven both by organic growth and acquisitions. During the first quarter of fiscal 2018 , we acquired two businesses, with total cash consideration of $526.9 million in our Buildings and Infrastructure Segment. The largest acquisition is e-Builder, Inc., a Florida corporation. Our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income includes the operating results of the businesses from the dates of acquisition. In addition, in the first quarter of 2018 , we sold our Geoline business. Our Geoline business was part of the Geospatial segment. The sale resulted in a $2.6 million gain in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 that was included in Other income, net on our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. On April 23, 2018, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire privately-held Viewpoint from Bain Capital in an all-cash transaction valued at $1.2 billion. The transaction, which is expected to be completed in the third quarter of 2018, is subject to regulatory approvals, including the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act, as well as other customary closing conditions. The Viewpoint business will be reported as part of our Buildings and Infrastructure Segment. Seasonality of Business Construction equipment revenues, within our Buildings and Infrastructure segment, historically have been higher in early spring. Our agricultural equipment revenues, within our Resources and Utilities segment, have historically been the highest in the first quarter, followed by the second quarter, reflecting buying in anticipation of the spring planting season in the Northern hemisphere. However, overall as a company, as a result of diversification of our business across segments and the increased impact of subscription revenues, we may experience less seasonality in the future. Changes in global macroeconomic conditions could also impact the level of seasonality we experience. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview The following table is a summary of revenue, gross margin and operating income for the periods indicated and should be read in conjunction with the narrative descriptions below: First Quarter of 2018 2017 *As Adjusted (In millions) Revenue: Product $ 497.8 $ 409.6 Service 128.8 106.6 Subscription 115.6 94.4 Total revenue $ 742.2 $ 610.6 Gross margin $ 396.2 $ 324.3 Gross margin % 53.4 % 53.1 % Operating income $ 64.2 $ 54.7 Operating income % 8.6 % 9.0 % 30 Table of Contents * See Note 2 of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements. Revenue In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, total revenue increased $131.6 million or 22% compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2017. Product revenue increased $88.2 million or 22% , service revenue increased $22.2 million or 21% , and subscription revenue increased $21.2 million or 22% . Overall revenue increased primarily due to organic growth across all segments and major regions. To a lesser extent, acquisitions contributed to growth, particularly the Mller-Elektronik (" Mller") acquisition. We consider organic growth to include all revenue except for revenue associated with acquisitions made within the last four quarters. On a segment basis, the increase in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to strong growth in Buildings and Infrastructure, Resources and Utilities, Transportation and Geospatial. For the first quarter of fiscal 2018, Buildings and Infrastructure revenue increased $38.2 million , or 20% , Resources and Utilities revenue increased $39.0 million , or 32% , Transportation increased $29.5 million , or 19% , and Geospatial revenue increased $24.9 million , or 17% , as compared to first quarter of fiscal 2017. For the first quarter of fiscal 2018, Buildings and Infrastructure revenue increased primarily due to strong organic growth in civil engineering and construction and building construction and to a lesser extent, the e-Builder acquisition. Resources and Utilities revenue increased primarily due to acquisitions, in particular the impact of the Mller acquisition, and to a lesser extent, continued organic growth in agriculture and forestry. Transportation revenue increased due to continued organic growth in the transportation and logistics business. Geospatial revenue increased mainly due to strong geospatial and surveying organic growth, and to a lesser extent, Applanix product growth. By revenue category, for the first quarter of fiscal 2018, product revenue increased $88.2 million or 22% , service revenue increased $22.2 million or 21% , and subscription revenue increased $21.2 million or 22% , as compared to first quarter of fiscal 2017. The product revenue increase was due to strong organic growth in all segments as well as the impact of the Mller acquisition which is reported in Resources and Utilities. Services and subscription revenue increases were primarily due to growth in Buildings and Infrastructure, including the impact of the e-Builder acquisition, Transportation, and to a lesser extent, Resources and Utilities. Gross Margin Gross margin varies due to a combination of factors including product mix, pricing, distribution channel, production volumes and foreign currency translations. Gross margin increased by $71.9 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017 due to increased revenue growth across all segments. Gross margin as a percentage of total revenue was 53.4% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 , compared to 53.1% for the corresponding period in fiscal 2017 . The increase was primarily attributable to Geospatial product mix and pricing, partially offset by the impact of acquisitions, particularly Mller. Operating Income Operating income increased by $9.5 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017 . Operating income as a percentage of total revenue was 8.6% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 , compared to 9.0% for the corresponding period in fiscal 2017 . The increases in operating income was attributable to revenue expansion and strong operating control in all segments, partially offset by higher corporate expense including compensation expense related to the acceleration of e-Builder employee stock options and to a lesser extent, higher amortization of purchased intangible assets, primarily due to Mller, Beena Vision, and e-Builder. The decrease in operating income percentage was due to higher corporate expense, partially offset by stronger segment operating income results. Results by Segment To achieve distribution, marketing, production, and technology advantages in our targeted markets, we manage our operations in the following four segments: Buildings and Infrastructure, Geospatial, Resources and Utilities, and Transportation. Operating income is revenue less cost of sales and operating expense, excluding unallocated corporate expenses, restructuring charges, amortization of purchased intangible assets, stock-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up, and acquisition and divestiture items. 31 Table of Contents The following table is a summary of revenue and operating income by segment: First Quarter of 2018 2017 *As Adjusted (In millions) Buildings and Infrastructure Revenue $ 224.7 $ 186.5 Segment revenue as a percent of total revenue 30 % 31 % Operating income $ 43.5 $ 31.7 Operating income as a percent of segment revenue 19 % 17 % Geospatial Revenue $ 174.5 $ 149.6 Segment revenue as a percent of total revenue 24 % 24 % Operating income $ 37.3 $ 27.9 Operating income as a percent of segment revenue 21 % 19 % Resources and Utilities Revenue $ 159.2 $ 120.2 Segment revenue as a percent of total revenue 21 % 20 % Operating income $ 51.7 $ 42.6 Operating income as a percent of segment revenue 32 % 35 % Transportation Revenue $ 183.8 $ 154.3 Segment revenue as a percent of total revenue 25 % 25 % Operating income $ 30.4 $ 23.5 Operating income as a percent of segment revenue 17 % 15 % * See Note 2 of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements. A reconciliation of our consolidated segment operating income to consolidated income before taxes follows: First Quarter of 2018 2017 *As Adjusted (In millions) Consolidated segment operating income $ 162.9 $ 125.7 Unallocated corporate expense (23.4 ) (18.4 ) Restructuring charges (1.4 ) (3.4 ) Amortization of purchased intangible assets (40.5 ) (33.3 ) Stock-based compensation (17.4 ) (13.7 ) Amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up (0.1 ) Acquisition and divestiture items (16.0 ) (2.1 ) Consolidated operating income 64.2 54.7 Non-operating income, net: 2.5 9.0 Consolidated income before taxes $ 66.7 $ 63.7 * See Note 2 of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements. Buildings and Infrastructure Buildings and Infrastructure revenue increased by $38.2 million or 20% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017 . Segment operating income increased $11.8 million or 37% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017 . 32 Table of Contents Revenue increased for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to organic growth in building construction and civil engineering and construction due to continued strength in construction markets as well as new product introductions, such as the Earthworks products, which further fueled demand. Buildings and Infrastructure experienced strong growth in markets such as North America and Europe. To a lesser extent, e-Builder also contributed to revenue. Segment operating income increased primarily due to revenue expansion and operating expense control across the segment. However, operating income results were negatively impacted by e-Builder due to deferred revenue purchase accounting effects. Geospatial Geospatial revenue increased $24.9 million or 17% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017 . Segment operating income increased by $9.4 million or 34% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017 . Revenue increased for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to geospatial organic growth for optical and Global Navigation Satellite Systems products, including new products, such as the SX 10, as well as end market diversification. To a lesser extent, our Applanix products also contributed to growth. North America and Europe were particularly strong. Segment operating income increased primarily due to revenue and gross margin expansion, partially offset by higher operating expense associated with increased research and development costs. Resources and Utilities Resources and Utilities revenue increased by $39.0 million or 32% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017 . Segment operating income increased $9.1 million or 21% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017 . Revenue increased for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to impact of the Mller acquisition, and to a lesser extent, continued organic growth in agriculture and forestry product lines. Both our existing agricultural and Mller agricultural product families typically experience strong seasonality in the first quarter ahead of the planting seasons in North America and Europe. Growth in Europe increased significantly due to the Mller acquisition. Segment operating income increased due to strong revenue and operating expense control, partially offset by lower gross margin due to Mller product mix. Transportation Transportation revenue increased by $29.5 million or 19% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017 . Segment operating income increased by $6.9 million or 29% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017 . Transportation revenue increased for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to continued organic growth in the transportation and logistics business, particularly in North America due to the Electronic Logging Device ("ELD") government mandate. The continued technology deployment due to the ELD mandate as well as routing and navigation management products, resulted in continued SaaS subscription revenue growth. Segment operating income increased for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 due to revenue and gross margin expansion in the transportation and logistics business, partially offset by selected growth related investments. Research and Development, Sales and Marketing and General and Administrative Expense 33 Table of Contents Research and development (R&D), sales and marketing (S&M) and general and administrative (G&A) expense are summarized in the following table: First Quarter of 2018 2017 *As Adjusted (In millions) Research and development $ 109.3 $ 88.7 Percentage of revenue 15 % 15 % Sales and marketing $ 122.1 $ 94.4 Percentage of revenue 16 % 15 % General and administrative $ 81.6 $ 69.3 Percentage of revenue 11 % 11 % Total $ 313.0 $ 252.4 Percentage of revenue 42 % 41 % * See Note 2 of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements. Overall, R&D, S&M and G&A expense increased by approximately $60.6 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017 . Research and development expense increased by $20.6 million or 23% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017 primarily due to an $8.6 million in expense from acquisitions not applicable in the prior year, a $5.9 million increase in compensation expense, a $3.9 million increase due to unfavorable foreign exchange rates, and a $2.2 million increase in other expense. Overall, research and development spending was both 15% of revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 and 2017 . We believe that the development and introduction of new products are critical to our future success, and we expect to continue active development of new products. Sales and marketing expense increased by $27.7 million or 29% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017 primarily due to a $15.4 million in expense from acquisitions not applicable in the prior year, a $6.9 million increase in compensation expense, a $4.6 million increase due to unfavorable foreign exchange rates, and a $0.8 million increase in other expense. Overall, spending for sales and marketing was 16% of revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 , compared to approximately 15% in the corresponding period of fiscal 2017 . General and administrative expense increased by a $12.3 million , or 18% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017 primarily due to a $6.6 million in expense from acquisitions not applicable in the prior year, a $4.7 million increase in compensation expense, and a $1.6 million increase due to unfavorable foreign exchange rates, partially offset by a $0.6 million decrease in other expense. Overall, general and administrative spending was 11% of revenue in the first quarter of each of fiscal 2018 and 2017 . Restructuring charges Restructuring charges primarily consist of severance and benefits, resulting from employee headcount reductions in connection with our restructuring programs related to decisions to streamline processes and reduce the cost structure. As of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2018 , our restructuring liability was $1.7 million, which is expected to be substantially settled by the first quarter of fiscal 2019. Restructuring liabilities are reported within Other current liabilities on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets 34 Table of Contents First Quarter of 2018 2017 (In millions) Cost of sales 23.1 19.0 Operating expenses 17.4 14.3 Total amortization expense of purchased intangibles 40.5 33.3 Total amortization expense of purchased intangibles represented 5.5% of revenue in the first quarter of both fiscal 2018 and 2017. The expense for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was higher as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2017 due to new acquisitions amortization including Mller, Beena Vision, and e-Builder, which were not applicable in the prior year. Non-operating Income, Net The components of Non-operating income, net, were as follows: First Quarter of 2018 2017 (In millions) Interest expense, net $ (9.5 ) $ (6.1 ) Foreign currency transaction gain, net 3.7 1.4 Income from equity method investments, net 4.9 4.2 Other income, net 3.4 9.5 Total non-operating income, net $ 2.5 $ 9.0 Non-operating income, net decreased $6.5 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017 . The decrease for the first quarter was primarily due to higher interest costs associated with increased debt and decrease in Other income, net as the prior year included a large divestiture gain, partially offset favorable impacts from foreign currency exchange rates and an increase in profitability from joint ventures. Income Tax Provision Our effective income tax rate, after including discrete items, for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was 12% , compared to 22% in the corresponding period in fiscal 2017 , primarily due to the reduced U.S. federal tax rate and tax benefit from foreign deferred tax adjustments, partially offset by U.S. tax on certain foreign earnings. Our effective tax rate has been lower than the newly enacted U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% primarily due to the favorable tax rates associated with certain earnings from operations in lower-tax jurisdictions and benefit from U.S. federal R&D credit. OFF-BALANCE SHEET FINANCINGS AND LIABILITIES Other than lease commitments incurred in the normal course of business, we do not have any off-balance sheet financing arrangements or liabilities, guarantee contracts, retained or contingent interests in transferred assets, or any obligation arising out of a material variable interest in an unconsolidated entity. We do not have any majority-owned subsidiaries that are not included in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Additionally, we do not have any interest in, or relationship with, any special purpose entities. In the normal course of business to facilitate sales of our products, we indemnify other parties, including customers, lessors and parties to other transactions with us, with respect to certain matters. We have agreed to hold the other party harmless against losses arising from a breach of representations or covenants, or out of intellectual property infringement or other claims made against certain parties. These agreements may limit the time within which an indemnification claim can be made and the amount of the claim. From time to time, in connection with divesting some of our businesses or assets, we may also indemnify purchasers for certain matters in the normal course of business, such as breaches of representations, covenants or excluded liabilities. In addition, we entered into indemnification agreements with our officers and directors, and our bylaws contain similar indemnification obligations to our agents. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments made by us under these agreements were not material and no liabilities have been recorded for these obligations on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2018 and fiscal year end 2017 . 35 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES First Quarter of Fiscal Year End As of 2018 2017 (In millions, except percentages) Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments $ 274.5 $ 537.4 As a percentage of total assets 5.9 % 12.5 % Principal balance of outstanding debt 1,126.4 918.2 First Quarter of 2018 2017 *As Adjusted (In millions) Cash provided by operating activities $ 82.9 $ 104.0 Cash used in investing activities (353.5 ) (95.3 ) Cash provided by financing activities 180.3 51.0 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 6.3 5.0 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (84.0 ) $ 64.7 * See Note 2 of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements. Cash and Cash Equivalents and Short-Term Investments As of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2018 , cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments totaled $274.5 million compared to $537.4 million as of fiscal year end 2017 . We had a principal balance of outstanding debt of $1.1 billion as of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2018 , compared to $918.2 million as of fiscal year end 2017 . As a result of the 2017 Tax Act, we can repatriate our cumulative undistributed foreign earnings back to the U.S. when needed with minimal U.S. income tax consequences other than the transition tax. We have reinvested a large portion of our undistributed foreign earnings in acquisitions and other investments and we intend to bring back a portion of foreign cash which was subject to the transition tax. In the first quarter, we repatriated $354.5 million of our foreign earnings to the U.S. For further information on the transition tax, refer to Note 11 included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year 2017 . Our ability to continue to generate cash from operations will depend in large part on profitability, the rate of collections of accounts receivable, our inventory turns and our ability to manage other areas of working capital. In connection with the $1.2 billion acquisition of Viewpoint, headquartered in Portland, Oregon, which was announced on April 23, 2018, we obtained $1.2 billion committed bridge financing, subject to customary conditions, from JPMorgan Chase Bank, Goldman Sachs Bank USA and Bank of America. We intend to reduce the leverage ratio which will result from this indebtedness by limiting additional acquisitions and temporarily suspending share buybacks. Our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are maintained with several financial institutions. Deposits held with banks may exceed the amount of insurance provided on such deposits. Generally, these deposits may be redeemed upon demand and are maintained with financial institutions considered to be of reputable credit and to present little credit risk. Our investment policy requires the portfolio to include only securities with high credit quality and a weighted average maturity not to exceed six months, with the main objective of preserving capital and maintaining liquidity. We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. We classify our investments as short-term investments based on their nature and their availability for use in current operations. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and borrowings, as described below under the heading "Debt", will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs, debt service, planned capital expenditures, and our $1.2 billion acquisition of Viewpoint. Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities was $82.9 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 , compared to $104.0 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 . The decrease of $21.1 million was primarily driven by an increase in working capital requirements, particularly inventory purchases and a decrease in accrued compensation and benefits. 36 Table of Contents Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities was $353.5 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 , compared to $95.3 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 . The increase of cash used in investing activities of $258.2 million was primarily due to increased spending for business acquisitions, including the $485.2 million purchase of e-Builder, partially offset by proceeds from the sale of short-term investments. Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities was $180.3 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 , compared to cash used in financing activities of $51.0 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 . The increase of cash provided by financing activities of $129.3 million was primarily driven by net proceeds from debt facilities. Accounts Receivable and Inventory Metrics First Quarter of Fiscal Year End As of 2018 2017 *As Adjusted Accounts receivable days sales outstanding 58 56 Inventory turns per year 5.2 5.4 See Note 2 of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements. Accounts receivable days sales outstanding was 58 days as of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2018 , compared to 56 days as of the end of fiscal 2017 . Our accounts receivable days sales outstanding are calculated based on ending accounts receivable, net, divided by revenue for the corresponding fiscal quarter, times a quarterly average of 91 days. Our inventory turns were 5.2 as of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2018 , compared to 5.4 as of the end of fiscal 2017 . Our inventory turnover is calculated based on total cost of sales for the most recent twelve months divided by average ending inventory, net, for this same twelve month period. To the extent that customer demand continues to increase, inventory may be purchased in advance to reduce leads times. As a result, inventory turns may decrease. Debt Notes In November 2014, we issued $400.0 million of Senior Notes (the "Notes") in a public offering registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Notes mature on December 1, 2024 and accrue interest at a rate of 4.75% per annum, payable semiannually in arrears in cash on December 1 and June 1 of each year. In connection with the Notes offering, we entered into an Indenture with U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee. We may redeem the Notes at our option at any time, in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the Indenture. Further details regarding the terms of the Notes, including the redemption rights, and the Indenture, are provided in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2017. 2014 Credit Facility In November 2014, we entered into a five-year credit agreement with a group of lenders, which provides for an unsecured revolving loan facility of $1.0 billion (the "2014 Credit Facility"). Under the 2014 Credit Facility, we may borrow, repay and reborrow funds under the revolving loan facility until its maturity on November 24, 2019, at which time the revolving facility will terminate, and all outstanding loans, together with all accrued and unpaid interest, must be repaid. The weighted average interest rate on the non-current debt outstanding under the 2014 Credit Facility was 2.85% and 2.55% at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2018 and fiscal year end 2017 , respectively, and is payable on a quarterly basis. Amounts not borrowed under the revolving facility will be subject to a commitment fee. In February 2016, we entered into an amendment to the 2014 Credit Facility to facilitate our proposed reincorporation from California to Delaware and to effect other non-financial terms. In August 2016, we entered into a second amendment to revise a definition used in determining when a change of control of the Company may occur. We were in compliance with all covenants pertaining to the 2014 Credit Facility at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Uncommitted Facilities We also have two $75 million revolving credit facilities which are uncommitted (the "Uncommitted Facilities"). The Uncommitted Facilities may be called by the lenders at any time, have no covenants and no specified expiration date. The $130.0 million outstanding at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2018 and the $128.0 million outstanding at the end of fiscal 2017 under the Uncommitted Facilities are considered short-term debt. The weighted average interest rate on the Uncommitted Facilities was 2.27% at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2018 and 2.24% at the end of fiscal 2017 . 37 Table of Contents 2018 Interim Credit Facility On February 2, 2018, we entered into a $300.0 million Revolving Credit Agreement (the 2018 Interim Credit Facility), by and between the Company and The Bank of Nova Scotia in connection with the acquisition of e-Builder, Inc., a Florida corporation. We may borrow, repay and reborrow funds under the 2018 Interim Credit Facility until its maturity on January 31, 2019. Borrowings under the 2018 Interim Credit Facility will bear interest, at our option, at either: (i) a floating per annum base rate determined by reference to the highest of: (a) The Bank of Nova Scotias prime rate; (b) 0.50% per annum above the federal funds effective rate; and (c) LIBOR for an interest period of one month; plus a margin equal to 0.125%, (ii) a fixed per annum rate based on LIBOR plus a margin of 1.125% or (iii) an interest rate agreed between us and The Bank of Nova Scotia. The 2018 Interim Credit Facility contains various customary representations and warranties and affirmative and negative covenants that are substantially the same as those contained in the 2014 Credit Facility. The outstanding balance of $300.0 million as of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2018 is classified as short-term debt in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. The weighted average interest rate under the 2018 Interim Credit Facility was 2.75% at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2018 and is payable on a monthly basis. We were in compliance with all covenants pertaining to the 2018 Interim Credit Facility at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Bridge Commitment Letter On April 23, 2018, we entered into a bridge loan commitment letter with a group of lenders (the Bridge Commitment Letter) in connection with the acquisition of Viewpoint from Bain Capital. Pursuant to the Bridge Commitment Letter, the lenders party thereto have committed to provide a 364-day senior unsecured bridge term loan credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $1.2 billion and, in the case of one lender, a $1.0 billion backstop revolving credit facility. The commitments under the Bridge Commitment Letter will expire on August 28, 2018. Any loan under the Bridge Commitment Letter would bear interest at (i) adjusted LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 1.000% to 1.875% or (ii) the adjusted base rate plus the applicable adjusted LIBOR margin minus 1.000%. The initial maturity date for the bridge facility is 364 days after the draw down date. The commitments under the Bridge Commitment Letter will be reduced by the amount of the term loan facility described below, once effective, and the net cash proceeds of a securities offering. Term Commitment Letter In addition, on April 23, 2018, we entered a term loan commitment letter with a group of lenders (the Term Commitment Letter). Pursuant to the Term Commitment Letter, the lenders party thereto have committed to provide, subject to the terms and conditions thereof, a portion of a delayed draw term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $500 million, which would refinance and replace the 2014 Credit Facility. The term loan facility would bear interest at (i) adjusted LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 1.000% to 1.875% or (ii) the adjusted base rate plus the applicable adjusted LIBOR margin minus 1.000%. The maturity date for the term loan facility is three years after the date of funding. Promissory Notes and Other Debt At the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2018 and the end of fiscal 2017 , we had promissory notes and other notes payable totaling approximately $1.4 million and $1.2 million, respectively, of which $0.9 million and $0.8 million, respectively, was classified as long-term in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. For additional discussion of our debt, see Note 7 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES Our non-GAAP measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures. The non-GAAP financial measures included in the following tables as well as detailed explanations to the adjustments to comparable GAAP measures, are set forth below: Non-GAAP gross margin We believe our investors benefit by understanding our non-GAAP gross margin as a way of understanding how product mix, pricing decisions and manufacturing costs influence our business. Non-GAAP gross margin excludes restructuring charges, amortization of purchased intangible assets, stock-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up, and acquisition/divestiture items associated with the acceleration of acquisition stock options from GAAP gross margin. We believe that these exclusions offer investors additional information that may be useful to view trends in our gross margin performance. Non-GAAP operating expenses 38 Table of Contents We believe this measure is important to investors evaluating our non-GAAP spending in relation to revenue. Non-GAAP operating expenses exclude restructuring charges, amortization of purchased intangible assets, stock-based compensation, acquisition/divestiture items associated with external and incremental costs resulting directly from merger and acquisition activities such as legal, due diligence, integration, and other required closing costs including the acceleration of acquisition stock options from GAAP operating expenses. We believe that these exclusions offer investors supplemental information to facilitate comparison of our operating expenses to our prior results. Non-GAAP operating income We believe our investors benefit by understanding our non-GAAP operating income trends which are driven by revenue, gross margin, and spending. Non-GAAP operating income excludes restructuring charges, amortization of purchased intangible assets, stock-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up, acquisition/divestiture costs associated with external and incremental costs resulting directly from merger and acquisition activities such as legal, due diligence, integration, and other required closing costs including the acceleration of acquisition stock options. We believe that these exclusions offer an alternative means for our investors to evaluate current operating performance compared to results of other periods. Non-GAAP non-operating income (expense), net We believe this measure helps investors evaluate our non-operating income trends. Non-GAAP non-operating income (expense), net excludes acquisition/divestiture gains/losses associated with unusual acquisition related items such as intangible asset impairment charges and gains or losses related to the acquisition or sale of certain businesses and investments. We believe that these exclusions provide investors with a supplemental view of our ongoing financial results. Non-GAAP income tax provision We believe that providing investors with the non-GAAP income tax provision is beneficial because it provides for consistent treatment of the excluded items in our non-GAAP presentation. Non-GAAP net income This measure provides a supplemental view of net income trends which are driven by non-GAAP income before taxes and our non-GAAP tax rate. Non-GAAP net income excludes restructuring charges, amortization of purchased intangible assets, stock-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up, acquisition/divestiture items, and non-GAAP tax adjustments from GAAP net income. We believe our investors benefit from understanding these exclusions and from an alternative view of our net income performance compared to our past net income performance. Non-GAAP diluted net income per share We believe our investors benefit by understanding our non-GAAP operating performance as reflected in a per share calculation as a way of measuring non-GAAP operating performance by ownership in the company. Non-GAAP diluted net income per share excludes restructuring charges, amortization of purchased intangible assets, stock-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up, acquisition/divestiture items, and non-GAAP tax adjustments from GAAP diluted net income per share. We believe that these exclusions offer investors a useful view of our diluted net income per share compared to our past diluted net income per share. These non-GAAP measures can be used to evaluate our historical and prospective financial performance, as well as our performance relative to competitors. We believe some of our investors track our ""core operating performance"" as a means of evaluating our performance in the ordinary, ongoing, and customary course of our operations. Core operating performance excludes items that are non-cash, not expected to recur or not reflective of ongoing financial results. Management also believes that looking at our core operating performance provides a supplemental way to provide consistency in period to period comparisons. Accordingly, management excludes from non-GAAP those items relating to restructuring charges, amortization of purchased intangible assets, stock-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up, acquisition/divestiture items, and non-GAAP tax adjustments. For detailed explanations of the adjustments made to comparable GAAP measures, see items ( A ) - ( G ) below. First Quarter 2018 2017 *As Adjusted Dollar % of Dollar % of (In millions, except per share amounts) Amount Revenue Amount Revenue 39 Table of Contents GROSS MARGIN: GAAP gross margin: $ 396.2 53.4 % $ 324.3 53.1 % Restructuring charges ( A ) (0.2 ) % 0.5 0.1 % Amortization of purchased intangible assets ( B ) 23.1 3.1 % 19.0 3.1 % Stock-based compensation ( C ) 1.1 0.1 % 0.8 0.2 % Amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up ( D ) % 0.1 % Acquisition / divestiture items ( E ) 2.0 0.3 % % Non-GAAP gross margin: $ 422.2 56.9 % $ 344.7 56.5 % OPERATING EXPENSES: GAAP operating expenses: $ 332.0 44.8 % $ 269.6 44.1 % Restructuring charges ( A ) (1.6 ) (0.2 )% (2.9 ) (0.5 )% Amortization of purchased intangible assets ( B ) (17.4 ) (2.3 )% (14.3 ) (2.3 )% Stock-based compensation ( C ) (16.3 ) (2.3 )% (12.9 ) (2.1 )% Acquisition / divestiture items ( E ) (14.0 ) (1.9 )% (2.1 ) (0.3 )% Non-GAAP operating expenses: $ 282.7 38.1 % $ 237.4 38.9 % OPERATING INCOME: GAAP operating income: $ 64.2 8.6 % $ 54.7 9.0 % Restructuring charges ( A ) 1.4 0.2 % 3.4 0.6 % Amortization of purchased intangible assets ( B ) 40.5 5.4 % 33.3 5.4 % Stock-based compensation ( C ) 17.4 2.4 % 13.7 2.3 % Amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up ( D ) % 0.1 % Acquisition / divestiture items ( E ) 16.0 2.2 % 2.1 0.3 % Non-GAAP operating income: $ 139.5 18.8 % $ 107.3 17.6 % NON-OPERATING INCOME (EXPENSE), NET: GAAP non-operating income, net: $ 2.5 $ 9.0 Acquisition / divestiture items ( E ) (2.8 ) (8.1 ) Non-GAAP non-operating income (expense), net: $ (0.3 ) $ 0.9 GAAP and Non-GAAP Tax Rate % ( G ) GAAP and Non-GAAP Tax Rate % INCOME TAX PROVISION: GAAP income tax provision: $ 8.0 12 % $ 13.9 22 % Non-GAAP items tax effected ( F ) 8.7 9.8 Difference in GAAP and Non-GAAP tax rate ( F ) 9.8 1.2 Non-GAAP income tax provision: $ 26.5 19 % $ 24.9 23 % NET INCOME: GAAP net income attributable to Trimble Inc.: $ 58.5 $ 49.8 Restructuring charges ( A ) 1.4 3.4 Amortization of purchased intangible assets ( B ) 40.5 33.3 Stock-based compensation ( C ) 17.4 13.7 Amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up ( D ) 0.1 Acquisition / divestiture items ( E ) 13.2 (6.0 ) Non-GAAP tax adjustments ( F ) + ( G ) (18.5 ) (11.0 ) Non-GAAP net income attributable to Trimble Inc.: $ 112.5 $ 83.3 DILUTED NET INCOME PER SHARE: GAAP diluted net income per share attributable to Trimble Inc.: $ 0.23 $ 0.19 Restructuring charges ( A ) 0.01 Amortization of purchased intangible assets ( B ) 0.16 0.13 Stock-based compensation ( C ) 0.07 0.05 Amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up ( D ) Acquisition / divestiture items ( E ) 0.05 (0.02 ) Non-GAAP tax adjustments ( F ) + ( G ) (0.07 ) (0.03 ) Non-GAAP diluted net income per share attributable to Trimble Inc.: $ 0.44 $ 0.33 40 Table of Contents * See Note 2 of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements. A. Restructuring charges. Included in our GAAP presentation of cost of sales and operating expenses, restructuring charges recorded are primarily for employee compensation resulting from reductions in employee headcount in connection with our company restructurings. We exclude restructuring charges from our non-GAAP measures because we believe they do not reflect expected future operating expenses, they are not indicative of our core operating performance, and they are not meaningful in comparisons to our past operating performance. We have incurred restructuring expense in each of the periods presented. However the amount incurred can vary significantly based on whether a restructuring has occurred in the period and the timing of headcount reductions. B. Amortization of purchased intangible assets. Included in our GAAP presentation of gross margin and operating expenses is amortization of purchased intangible assets. U.S. GAAP accounting requires that intangible assets are recorded at fair value and amortized over their useful lives. Consequently, the timing and size of our acquisitions will cause our operating results to vary from period to period, making a comparison to past performance difficult for investors. This accounting treatment may cause differences when comparing our results to companies that grow internally because the fair value assigned to the intangible assets acquired through acquisition may significantly exceed the equivalent expenses that a company may incur for similar efforts when performed internally. Furthermore, the useful life that we use to amortize our intangible assets over may be substantially different from the time period that an internal growth company incurs and recognizes such expenses. We believe that by excluding the amortization of purchased intangible assets, which primarily represents technology and/or customer relationships already developed, it provides an alternative way for investors to compare our operations pre-acquisition to those post-acquisitions and to those of our competitors that have pursued internal growth strategies. However, we note that companies that grow internally will incur costs to develop intangible assets that will be expensed in the period incurred, which may make a direct comparison more difficult. C. Stock-based compensation. Included in our GAAP presentation of cost of sales and operating expenses, stock-based compensation consists of expenses for employee stock options and awards and purchase rights under our employee stock purchase plan. We exclude stock-based compensation expense from our non-GAAP measures because some investors may view it as not reflective of our core operating performance as it is a non-cash expense. For the first quarter of fiscal years 2018 and 2017, stock-based compensation was allocated as follows: First Quarter (Dollars in millions) 2018 2017 Cost of sales $ 1.1 $ 0.8 Research and development 3.1 2.4 Sales and Marketing 2.3 2.2 General and administrative 10.9 8.3 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 17.4 $ 13.7 D. Amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up. The purchase accounting entries associated with our business acquisitions require us to record inventory at its fair value, which is sometimes greater than the previous book value of the inventory. Included in our GAAP presentation, the increase in inventory value is amortized to cost of sales over the period that the related product is sold. We exclude inventory step-up amortization from our non-GAAP measures because it is a non-cash expense that we do not believe is indicative of our ongoing operating results. We further believe that excluding this item from our non-GAAP results is useful to investors in that it allows for period-over-period comparability. E. Acquisition / divestiture items. Included in our GAAP presentation of cost of sales and operating expenses, acquisition costs consist of external and incremental costs resulting directly from merger and acquisition and strategic investment activities such as legal, due diligence, integration, and other closing costs, including the acceleration of acquisition stock options, as well as adjustments to the fair value of earn-out liabilities. Included in our GAAP presentation of non-operating income (expense), net, acquisition/divestiture items includes unusual acquisition, investment, and/or divestiture gains/losses. Although we do numerous acquisitions, the costs that have been excluded from the non-GAAP measures are costs specific to particular acquisitions. These are one-time costs that vary significantly in amount and timing and are not indicative of our core operating performance. F. Non-GAAP items tax effected. This amount adjusts the provision for income taxes to reflect the effect of the non-GAAP items ( A ) - ( E ) on non-GAAP net income. We believe this information is useful to investors because it provides for consistent treatment of the excluded items in this non-GAAP presentation. 41 Table of Contents G. Difference in GAAP and Non-GAAP tax rate. This amount represents the difference between the GAAP and Non-GAAP tax rates applied to the Non-GAAP operating income plus the Non-GAAP non-operating income (expense), net. We believe that investors benefit from excluding this amount from our non-GAAP income tax provision because it facilitates a comparison of the non-GAAP tax provision in the current and prior periods. Non-GAAP Operating Income Non-GAAP operating income increased by $32.2 million or 30% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 , compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017 . Non-GAAP operating income as a percentage of total revenue was 18.8% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 , compared to 17.6% for the corresponding period in fiscal 2017 . Non-GAAP operating income and Non-GAAP operating income percentage for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 increased primarily due to revenue and gross margin expansion across all segments and improved operating expense control.