Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as may, will, should, could, predicts, potential, continue, expects, anticipates, future, intends, plans, believes, estimates, and similar expressions. These forward-looking statements involve certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, levels of activity, performance, achievements, and events to differ materially from those implied by such forward-looking statements, including but not limited to those discussed in Risk Factors below and elsewhere in this report, as well as in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year 2014 and in other reports Trimble files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, each as it may be amended from time to time. These forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We reserve the right to update these forward-looking statements for any reason, including the occurrence of material events, but assume no duty to update these statements to reflect subsequent events. ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U. S. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable. Although these estimates are based on our best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact us in the future, actual results may be different from the estimates. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES There have been no material changes to our significant accounting polices during the first quarter of fiscal 2015 from those disclosed in our 2014 Form 10-K. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the FASB issued a comprehensive new revenue recognition standard that will amend the current revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP. As currently issued, the new standard is effective beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2017. In April 2015, the FASB agreed to propose a one-year deferral of the effective date for all entities, which would change the effectiveness for us to the beginning of fiscal 2018, with early adoption permitted. Entities have the option of using either a full retrospective or modified retrospective approach for the adoption of the standard. We are currently evaluating the effect of the updated standard on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. In February 2015, the FASB issued amendments to the consolidation guidance. The amendments under the new guidance modify the evaluation of whether limited partnerships and similar legal entities are variable interest entities (VIEs) or voting interest entities and eliminate the presumption that a general partner should consolidate a limited partnership. The standard is effective for us in fiscal 2016, although early adoption is permitted. We don't not anticipate a material impact on our consolidated financial statements as a result of the amendments. 20 Table of Contents In April 2015, the FASB issued amendments to the guidance for debt issuance costs that will require debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability to be presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the carrying amount of that debt liability instead of being recorded as an asset. Amortization of the costs will continue to be reported as interest expense. The amendments are effective for us beginning in fiscal 2016. However, early adoption is permitted and our plan is to adopt this standard in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015. The new guidance will be applied retrospectively to each prior period presented. We don't anticipate a material impact on our consolidated financial statements as a result of this change. EXECUTIVE LEVEL OVERVIEW Trimble Navigation Limited is a leading provider of technology solutions that optimize the work processes of office and mobile field professionals around the world. Our comprehensive process solutions are used across a range of industries including agriculture, architecture, civil engineering, construction, environmental management, government, natural resources, transportation and utilities. Representative Trimble customers include engineering and construction firms, contractors, surveying companies, farmers and agricultural companies, enterprise firms with large-scale fleets, energy, mining and utility companies, and state, federal and municipal governments. Trimble focuses on integrating its broad technological and application capabilities to create vertically-focused, system-level solutions that transform how work is done within the industries we serve. The integration of sensors, software, connectivity, and information in our portfolio gives us the unique ability to provide an information model specific to the customers workflow. For example, in construction our strategy is centered on the concept of a constructible model, which will provide a real-time, connected, and cohesive information environment for the design, build, and operational phases of a project. In agriculture, we continue to develop Connected Farm solutions to optimize operations across the agriculture workflow. In transportation and logistics, we provide transportation companies with tools to enhance fuel efficiency, safety, and transparency across the enterprise. Our growth strategy is centered on multiple elements: Focus on attractive markets with significant growth and profitability potential - We focus on large markets historically underserved by technology that offer significant potential for long-term revenue growth, profitability and market leadership. Our core industries such as construction, agriculture, and transportation markets are each multi-trillion dollar global industries which operate in increasingly demanding environments with technology adoption in the early phases relative to other industries. With the emergence of mobile computing capabilities, the increasing technological know-how of end users and the compelling return on investment to our customers, we believe many of our markets are ripe for substituting Trimbles technology and solutions in place of traditional operating methods. Domain knowledge and technological innovation that benefit a diverse customer base - We have over time redefined our technological capabilities from hardware-driven point solutions to integrated work process solutions by developing domain expertise and heavily reinvesting in R&D, capex and acquisitions. We have been spending approximately 13% of revenue historically on R&D and currently hold over 1,000 unique patents. We intend to continue to leverage our divisional structure to take advantage of our technology portfolio and deep domain knowledge to quickly and cost-effectively deliver specific, targeted solutions to each of the verticals we serve. We look for opportunities where the need for technological change is high and which have a requirement for the integration of multiple technologies into complete vertical solutions. Increasing focus on software and services - Software and services are increasingly important elements of our solutions and are core to our growth strategy. Trimble has an open application programming interface (API) philosophy and open vendor environment which leads to increased adoption of our software offerings. Professional services constitute an additional growth channel that helps our customers integrate and optimize the use of our offerings in their environment. The increased recurring revenue from these solutions will provide us with enhanced business visibility over time. Geographic expansion with localization strategy - We view international expansion as an important element of our strategy and we continue to position ourselves in geographic markets that will serve as important sources of future growth. We currently have a physical presence in over 35 countries and third party representation in over 100 countries. In the first quarter of fiscal 2015, 52% of our sales occurred in countries outside of the U.S. Optimized distribution channels to best access our markets - We utilize vertically-focused distribution channels that leverage domain expertise to best serve the needs of individual markets domestically and abroad. These channels include independent dealers, joint ventures, original equipment manufacturers (OEM) sales, and distribution alliances with key partners, such as CNH Global, Caterpillar, and Nikon, as well as direct sales to end-users, that provide us with broad market reach and localization capabilities to effectively serve our markets. Strategic acquisitions - Organic growth continues to be our primary focus, while acquisitions serve to enhance our market position. We acquire businesses that bring technology, products, or distribution capabilities that augment our portfolio 21 Table of Contents and allow us to penetrate existing markets more effectively, or to establish a market beachhead. Our level of success in targeting and effectively integrating acquisitions is an important aspect of our growth strategy. Trimbles focus on these growth drivers has led to growth in revenue and profitability as well as an increasingly diversified business model. Software and services growth is driving increased recurring revenue, leading to improved visibility in our business. As our solutions have expanded, our go to market model has also evolved, with a balanced mix between direct, distribution and OEM customers, and an increasing number of enterprise level customer relationships. Finally, profitability has improved over time, in large part through expansion of gross margins, as software and services have grown both organically and through acquisitions. For the first quarter of 2015, revenue was down 4% as compared to the first quarter of 2014. The decline in revenue came primarily from softness in our Field Solutions and Engineering and Construction segments. Geographically, performance in the first quarter was mixed. North America, Europe, and Rest of World were down year over year, although Europe growth was positive, excluding foreign currency impacts. Asia-Pacific was up slightly. Within the quarter we continued to experience a shift in revenue towards a more significant mix of software, recurring revenue, and services, driven both by organic growth and acquisitions. During the first quarter of 2015, the company completed acquisitions for total consideration of $34.6 million. We acquired privately-held Fifth Element, a provider of forestry enterprise and mobile software solutions for logistics and harvest operations in Espoo, Finland. Fifth Element expands our forestry presence in Northern Europe, one of the largest forestry regions globally. Fifth Element's performance is reported under our Mobile Solutions business segment. We also acquired privately-held Linear project GMBH, a provider of scheduling software for linear infrastructure projects. Linear project's TILOS time and location planning software is used worldwide and is ideal for highways, railways, pipelines, tunnels, water engineering, transmission line construction and other linear civil engineering projects. Linear Project's performance is reported under our Engineering and Construction business segment. Seasonality of Business Our individual segment revenue may be affected by seasonal buying patterns. Historically, the second fiscal quarter has been the strongest quarter for the Company driven by the construction buying season. However, as a result of diversification of our business into software and subscription revenue, we may experience less seasonality in the future. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview The following table is a summary of revenue, gross margin and operating income for the periods indicated and should be read in conjunction with the narrative descriptions below. First Quarter of 2015 2014 (Dollars in millions) Revenue: Product $ 400.6 $ 442.6 Service 100.9 93.3 Subscription 81.1 68.8 Total revenue $ 582.6 $ 604.7 Gross margin $ 307.2 $ 326.9 Gross margin % 52.7 % 54.1 % Operating income $ 39.5 $ 75.7 Operating income % 6.8 % 12.5 % Revenue In the first quarter of fiscal 2015 , total revenue decreased by $22.1 million or 4% , as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2014 . Of this decrease, product revenue decreased $42.0 million or 9% , service revenue increased $7.6 million or 8% , and subscription revenue increased $12.3 million or 18% . The product revenue decrease was primarily within Field Solutions and Engineering and Construction, partially offset by Mobile Solutions. Service and subscription increases were due to acquisitions within Engineering and Construction which were not applicable in the prior period, and to a lesser extent, organic growth in Engineering 22 Table of Contents and Construction and Mobile Solutions. We consider organic growth to include all revenue except for revenue associated with acquisitions made within the last four quarters. On a segment basis, Engineering and Construction revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 decreased $10.0 million or 3% and Field Solutions decreased $22.9 million or 17% , partially offset by an increase in Mobile Solutions of $9.6 million or 8% and Advanced Devices of $1.2 million or 3% , as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2014 . The decline in Engineering and Construction was primarily driven by negative foreign currency effects due to the weakening Euro, weather conditions, and the impact of oil prices on regional economies, primarily in Geospatial and to a lesser extent, Construction markets. The decline in Engineering and Construction was partially offset by acquisitions not applicable in the prior year. The decline in Field Solutions revenue was primarily due to softness in agricultural markets and to a lesser extent, GIS and foreign currency effects. Mobile Solutions increased due to continued growth in the transportation and logistics market. Advanced Devices revenue increased slightly primarily due to stronger sales of embedded components and inertial/GNSS positioning and orientation systems. Gross Margin Gross margin varies due to a number of factors including product mix, pricing, distribution channel, production volumes and foreign currency translations. Gross margin decreased by $19.7 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 , as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2014 , primarily due to decreased revenue in Engineering and Construction and Field Solutions, partially offset by Mobile Solutions. Gross margin as a percentage of total revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 was 52.7% , as compared to 54.1% for the corresponding period of fiscal 2014 . The decrease was primarily due to Engineering and Construction, partially offset by Mobile Solutions. Operating Income Operating income decreased by $36.2 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 , as compared to the corresponding period of fiscal 2014 . Operating income as a percentage of total revenue was 6.8% for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 , as compared to 12.5% for the corresponding period of fiscal 2014 . The decrease in operating income and operating income percentage for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 was primarily due to revenue shortfalls in Engineering and Construction and Field Solutions as well as a gross margin percentage decrease in Engineering and Construction. Acquisitions also contributed to the operating income decrease, particularly within Engineering and Construction. Results by Segment To achieve distribution, marketing, production and technology advantages in our targeted markets, we manage our operations in the following four segments: Engineering and Construction, Field Solutions, Mobile Solutions and Advanced Devices. Operating income equals net revenue less cost of sales and operating expense, excluding general corporate expense, amortization of purchased intangible assets, stock-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up, acquisition costs and restructuring costs. Operating leverage is defined as an increase in operating income as a percentage of the increase in revenue. 23 Table of Contents The following table is a summary of revenue and operating income by segment: First Quarter of 2015 2014 (Dollars in millions) Engineering and Construction Revenue $ 299.3 $ 309.3 Segment revenue as a percent of total revenue 51 % 51 % Operating income $ 37.0 $ 61.1 Operating income as a percent of segment revenue 12 % 20 % Field Solutions Revenue $ 115.3 $ 138.2 Segment revenue as a percent of total revenue 20 % 23 % Operating income $ 40.6 $ 53.7 Operating income as a percent of segment revenue 35 % 39 % Mobile Solutions Revenue $ 128.2 $ 118.6 Segment revenue as a percent of total revenue 22 % 20 % Operating income $ 20.5 $ 17.3 Operating income as a percent of segment revenue 16 % 15 % Advanced Devices Revenue $ 39.8 $ 38.6 Segment revenue as a percent of total revenue 7 % 6 % Operating income $ 15.2 $ 12.2 Operating income as a percent of segment revenue 38 % 32 % Historically, we allocated stock-based compensation to each segment. Beginning with the first quarter of fiscal 2015, we changed our methodology for allocating stock-based compensation to our segments. Stock-based compensation is shown in the aggregate within unallocated corporate expense and is not reflected in the segment results, which is consistent with the way the CODM evaluates each of the segment's performance and allocates resources. The change in the allocation of stock-based compensation is designed to help ensure that business segment results reflect only those items that are directly attributable to that segments performance. We have adjusted the presentation of segment information for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 to conform to the current year methodology. The following table shows the amount of stock-based compensation that had been previously allocated to the business segments in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 and the impact to those segments' Operating income. 24 Table of Contents Reporting Segments Engineering and Construction Field Solutions Mobile Solutions Advanced Devices Total (Dollars in millions) First Quarter of Fiscal 2014 Operating income $ 61.1 $ 53.7 $ 17.3 $ 12.2 $ 144.3 Previously allocated stock-based compensation (3.6 ) (0.8 ) (1.1 ) (0.5 ) (6.0 ) Previously reported operating income $ 57.5 $ 52.9 $ 16.2 $ 11.7 $ 138.3 A reconciliation of our consolidated segment operating income to consolidated income before taxes follows: First Quarter of 2015 2014 (Dollars in millions) Consolidated segment operating income $ 113.3 $ 144.3 Unallocated corporate expense (30.3 ) (26.6 ) Amortization of purchased intangible assets (40.7 ) (40.6 ) Acquisition costs (2.8 ) (1.4 ) Consolidated operating income 39.5 75.7 Non-operating income, net 4.7 12.8 Consolidated income before taxes $ 44.2 $ 88.5 Engineering and Construction Engineering and Construction revenue decreased by $10.0 million or 3% for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 , as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2014 . Segment operating income decreased by $24.1 million or 39% for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 , as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2014 . The revenue decrease for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 was primarily driven by the weakening Euro, weather conditions in the U.S and the impact that oil prices had on regional economies, primarily in Geospatial and to a lesser extent, Construction markets. These decreases were partially offset by acquisition revenue not applicable in the prior year. The operating income decrease was primarily due to decreased revenue and lower gross margin with the largest impact from product mix. Acquisitions also contributed to the decrease in operating income with the biggest impact from Manhattan Software, acquired in August 2014, due primarily to post acquisition revenue recognition accounting challenges and project completions. To the extent these trends continue, our results of operations will be further impacted. Field Solutions Field Solutions revenue decreased by $22.9 million or 17% for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 , as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2014 . Segment operating income decreased by $13.1 million or 24% for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 , as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2014 . Field Solutions revenue and operating income decreased for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 , primarily due to continued softness in agriculture markets, consistent with prior quarters, and to a lesser extent, GIS. The biggest drop was in North America. Negative foreign currency effects also contributed to the revenue and operating income decrease. On a macroeconomic level, commodity prices and farmer income are still down. To the extent these trends continue, our results of operations will be further impacted. Mobile Solutions Mobile Solutions revenue increased by $9.6 million or 8% for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 , as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2014 . Segment operating income increased by $3.2 million or 18% for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 , as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2014 . Mobile Solutions revenue increased for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 , primarily due to continued organic growth in the transportation and logistics market, which focuses on enterprise solutions. The majority of the sales are in the U.S., however there is continuing focus on geographic expansion. Operating income increased due to increased revenue and product mix, including higher margin software, maintenance and subscription revenue, as well as product cost reductions, partially offset by higher operating expenses. 25 Table of Contents Advanced Devices Advanced Devices revenue increased by $1.2 million or 3% for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 , as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2014 . Segment operating income increased by $3.0 million or 25% for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 , as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2014 . Advanced Devices revenue and operating income increased for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 , primarily due to increased sales of embedded components and inertial/GNSS positioning and orientation systems. Operating income increased due to increased revenue and strong operating leverage. Research and Development, Sales and Marketing and General and Administrative Expense Research and development (R&D), sales and marketing (S&M) and general and administrative (G&A) expense are summarized in the following table: First Quarter of 2015 2014 (Dollars in millions) Research and development $ 87.2 $ 76.4 Percentage of revenue 15 % 13 % Sales and marketing $ 96.5 $ 97.4 Percentage of revenue 17 % 16 % General and administrative $ 64.7 $ 57.4 Percentage of revenue 11 % 9 % Total $ 248.4 $ 231.2 Percentage of revenue 43 % 38 % Overall, R&D, S&M and G&A expense increased by approximately $17.2 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 , as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2014 . Research and development expense increased by $10.8 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 , as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2014 . Research and development spending overall was at approximately 15% of revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 and was approximately 13% of revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 . The cost of software developed for external sale subsequent to reaching technical feasibility was not material and was expensed as incurred. The increase in R&D expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 , as compared to the corresponding period of fiscal 2014 was primarily due to a $7.0 million increase in compensation related expense due to headcount increases, the inclusion of $4.4 million in expense from acquisitions not applicable in the prior corresponding period and a $4.7 million increase in other expense, partially offset by a $5.3 million decrease due to the favorable effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We believe that the development and introduction of new products are critical to our future success and we expect to continue active development of new products. Sales and marketing expense decreased by $0.9 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 , as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2014 . Sales and marketing spending overall was at approximately 17% of revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 and was approximately 16% of revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 . The decrease in Sales and marketing expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 , as compared to the corresponding period of fiscal 2014 was primarily due to a $5.9 million decrease from favorable foreign currency exchange rates and a $2.5 million decrease in other expense, partially offset by a $2.1 million increase in compensation related expense due to headcount increases, and the inclusion of $5.4 million in expense from acquisitions not applicable in the prior period. Our future growth will depend in part on the timely development and continued viability of the markets in which we currently compete, as well as our ability to continue to identify and develop new markets for our products. General and administrative expense increased by $7.3 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 , as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2014 . General and administrative spending overall was at approximately 11% of revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 as compared to 9% in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 . 26 Table of Contents The increase in G&A expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 , as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2014 was primarily due to the inclusion of $7.0 million in expense from acquisitions not applicable in the prior period, a $1.4 million increase in compensation related expense due to headcount increases and a $1.3 million increase in other expense, partially offset by a $2.4 million decrease from the favorable effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets Amortization of purchased intangible assets was $40.7 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 , as compared to $40.6 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 . Of the total $40.7 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 , $18.2 million is presented as a separate line within Operating expense and $22.5 million is presented as a separate line within Cost of sales in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. The expense reflects acquisitions not included in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 offset by the expiration of amortization for prior acquisitions. As of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2015 future amortization of intangible assets is expected to be $118.0 million during the remainder of fiscal 2015 , $140.5 million during 2016 , $117.5 million during 2017 , $89.0 million during 2018 , $47.8 million during 2019 and $33.4 million thereafter. Non-operating Income, Net The components of Non-operating income, net, were as follows: First Quarter of 2015 2014 (Dollars in millions) Interest expense, net $ (6.4 ) $ (3.7 ) Foreign currency transaction gain (loss) 1.1 (0.1 ) Income from equity method investments, net 3.0 3.5 Other income, net 7.0 13.1 Total non-operating income, net $ 4.7 $ 12.8 Non-operating income, net decreased $8.1 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2014 . The decrease was primarily due to higher interest expense, and a gain on a partial equity sale of Virtual Site Solutions (VSS) included in the first quarter of fiscal 2014, partially offset by a gain in foreign currency transaction fluctuations. Income Tax Provision Our effective income tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 was 23%, consistent with the first quarter of fiscal 2014. Although the effective tax rate was the same for both years, the first quarter of fiscal 2015 had a higher geographic mix of pre-tax income in the U.S., partially offset by a tax benefit from the release of unrecognized tax benefits resulting from the closing of a foreign tax audit. The first quarter of fiscal 2014 had a lower geographic mix of pre-tax income in the U.S. and the tax effect of a gain on a partial equity sale of VSS. Historically, our effective tax rate has been lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to the favorable tax rates associated with certain earnings from operations in lower-tax jurisdictions. We have not provided U.S. taxes for such earnings due to the indefinite reinvestment of some of those earnings outside the U.S. OFF-BALANCE SHEET FINANCINGS AND LIABILITIES Other than lease commitments incurred in the normal course of business, we do not have any off-balance sheet financing arrangements or liabilities, guarantee contracts, retained or contingent interests in transferred assets, or any obligation arising out of a material variable interest in an unconsolidated entity. We do not have any majority-owned subsidiaries that are not included in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Additionally, we do not have any interest in, or relationship with, any special purpose entities. In the normal course of business to facilitate sales of our products, we indemnify other parties, including customers, lessors and parties to other transactions with us, with respect to certain matters. We have agreed to hold the other party harmless against losses arising from a breach of representations or covenants, or out of intellectual property infringement or other claims made against certain parties. These agreements may limit the time within which an indemnification claim can be made and the amount of the claim. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our officers and directors, and our bylaws contain similar indemnification obligations to our agents. 27 Table of Contents It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments made by us under these agreements were not material and no liabilities have been recorded for these obligations on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2015 and fiscal year end 2014 . LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES First Quarter of Fiscal Year End As of 2015 2014 (In millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 145.7 $ 148.0 Total debt 663.4 738.4 First Quarter of 2015 2014 (In millions) Cash provided by operating activities $ 107.2 $ 83.4 Cash used in investing activities (35.4 ) (14.2 ) Cash used in financing activities (65.2 ) (51.1 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (8.9 ) (0.1 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (2.3 ) $ 18.0 Cash and Cash Equivalents As of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2015 , cash and cash equivalents totaled $145.7 million as compared to $148.0 million as of fiscal year end 2014 . Debt was $663.4 million as of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2015 , as compared to $738.4 million as of fiscal year end 2014 . Our ability to continue to generate cash from operations will depend in large part on profitability, the rate of collections of accounts receivable, our inventory turns and our ability to manage other areas of working capital. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents, together with borrowings under our 2014 Credit Facility as described below under the heading Debt, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs, debt service, planned capital expenditures, and stock purchases under the stock repurchase program for at least the next twelve months. We anticipate that planned capital expenditures primarily for enhancements of our Oracle ERP system, computer equipment, software, manufacturing tools and test equipment and leasehold improvements associated with business expansion, will constitute a partial use of our cash resources. Decisions related to how much cash is used for investing are influenced by the expected amount of cash to be provided by operations. Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities was $107.2 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 , as compared to $83.4 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 . The increase of $23.8 million was primarily driven by a decrease in working capital requirements, primarily attributable to accounts receivable. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities was $35.4 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 , as compared to $14.2 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 . The increase of $21.2 million was due to higher cash requirements for business acquisitions. Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities was $65.2 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 , as compared to $51.1 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 . The increase of cash used in financing activities of $14.1 million was primarily due to cash used for stock repurchases. Accounts Receivable and Inventory Metrics 28 Table of Contents First Quarter of Fiscal Year End As of 2015 2014 Accounts receivable days sales outstanding 60 58 Inventory turns per year 4.0 3.9 Accounts receivable days sales outstanding were 60 days as of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2015 , as compared to 58 days as of the end of fiscal 2014 . The increase in DSO was primarily due to non-linearity of sales and billings within the quarter. Accounts receivable days sales outstanding are calculated based on ending accounts receivable, net, divided by revenue for the corresponding fiscal quarter, times a quarterly average of 91 days. Our inventory turns were 4.0 as of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2015 as compared to 3.9 as of the end of fiscal 2014 . Our inventory turnover is calculated based on total cost of sales for the most recent twelve months divided by average ending inventory, net, for this same twelve month period. Debt Notes On October 30, 2014, we filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for the issuance of senior debt securities. On November 24, 2014, we issued $400.0 million of Senior Notes (Notes) under the shelf registration statement. The Notes mature on December 1, 2024 and accrue interest at a rate of 4.75% per annum, payable semiannually in arrears on December 1 and June 1 of each year, beginning on June 1, 2015. The Notes are classified as long-term in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. Prior to September 1, 2024, we may redeem the Notes at our option at any time, in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of interest and principal, calculated on a semiannual basis using a discount rate equal to the U.S. Treasury rate plus 40 basis points. After September 1, 2024, we may redeem the Notes at our option at any time, in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon. In addition, in the event of a change of control, as defined in the prospectus filed with the SEC, each holder of the Notes will have the right to require us to purchase for cash all or a portion of such holders Notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus any accrued and unpaid interest. In connection with the closing of the Notes offering, we entered into an Indenture with U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee. The Indenture contains covenants limiting our ability to create certain liens, enter into sale and lease-back transactions, and consolidate or merge with or into, or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all of our properties and assets to, another person, each subject to certain exceptions. The Notes contain no financial covenants. 2014 Credit Facility On November 24, 2014, we entered into a new five-year credit agreement with a group of lenders (the 2014 Credit Facility), which replaced our previous 2012 Credit Facility. The 2014 Credit Facility provides for an unsecured revolving loan facility of $1.0 billion and a letter of credit sub-facility of up to $50.0 million. Subject to the terms of the 2014 Credit Facility, the revolving loan facility may be increased and/or term loan facilities may be established in an amount up to $500.0 million. The outstanding balance of $133.0 million is classified as long-term in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. The funds available under the 2014 Credit Facility may be used for working capital and general corporate purposes, the financing of certain acquisitions and the payment of transaction fees and expenses related to such acquisitions. Under the 2014 Credit Facility, we may borrow, repay and reborrow funds under the revolving loan facility until its maturity on November 24, 2019, at which time the revolving facility will terminate, and all outstanding loans, together with all accrued and unpaid interest, must be repaid. Amounts not borrowed under the $1.0 billion revolving facility will be subject to a commitment fee, to be paid in arrears on the last day of each fiscal quarter, ranging from 0.10% to 0.30% per annum depending on either our credit rating at such time or our leverage ratio as of the most recently ended fiscal quarter, whichever results in more favorable pricing to us. We may borrow funds under the 2014 Credit Facility in U.S. Dollars, Euros or in certain other agreed currencies, and borrowings will bear interest, at our option, at either: (i) a floating per annum base rate determined by reference to the highest of: (a) the administrative agents prime rate; (b) 0.50% per annum above the federal funds effective rate; and (c) reserve-adjusted LIBOR for an interest period of one month plus 1.00%, plus a margin of between 0.00% and 0.75%, or (ii) a reserve-adjusted fixed per annum rate based on LIBOR or EURIBOR, depending on the currency borrowed, plus a margin of between 1.00% and 1.75%. The applicable margin in each case is determined based on either Trimbles credit rating at such time or Trimbles leverage ratio as of its most recently ended fiscal quarter, whichever results in more favorable pricing to us. Interest is payable on the last day of each fiscal quarter with respect to borrowings bearing interest at the base rate, or on the last day of an interest period, but at least every three months, with respect to borrowings bearing interest at LIBOR or EURIBOR rate. 29 Table of Contents The 2014 Credit Facility contains various customary representations and warranties by us, which include customary use of materiality, material adverse effect and knowledge qualifiers. The 2014 Credit Facility also contains customary affirmative and negative covenants including, among other requirements, negative covenants that restrict our ability to create liens and enter into sale and leaseback transactions, and that restrict our subsidiaries ability to incur indebtedness. Further, the 2014 Credit Facility contains financial covenants that require the maintenance of minimum interest coverage and maximum leverage ratios. Specifically, we must maintain as of the end of each fiscal quarter a ratio of (a) EBITDA (as defined in the 2014 Credit Facility) to (b) interest expense for the most recently ended period of four fiscal quarters of not less than 3.50 to 1.00. We must also maintain, at the end of each fiscal quarter, a ratio of (x) total indebtedness (as defined in the 2014 Credit Facility) to (y) EBITDA (as defined in the 2014 Credit Facility) for the most recently ended period of four fiscal quarters of not greater than 3.00 to 1.00; provided, that on the completion of a material acquisition, we may increase the ratio by 0.50 for the fiscal quarter during which such acquisition occurred and each of the three subsequent fiscal quarters. We were in compliance with these covenants at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2015 . The 2014 Credit Facility contains events of default that include, among others, non-payment of principal, interest or fees, breach of covenants, inaccuracy of representations and warranties, cross defaults to certain other indebtedness, bankruptcy and insolvency events, material judgments and events constituting a change of control. Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an event of default, interest on the obligations will accrue at an increased rate and the lenders may accelerate our obligations under the 2014 Credit Facility, except that acceleration will be automatic in the case of bankruptcy and insolvency events of default. The interest rate on the non-current debt outstanding under the credit facilities was 1.43% and 1.42% at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2015 and fiscal year end 2014, respectively. Uncommitted Facilities We also have two $75 million revolving credit facilities which are uncommitted (the Uncommitted Facilities). The Uncommitted Facilities may be called by the lenders at any time, have no covenants and no specified expiration date. The interest rate on the Uncommitted Facilities is 1.00% plus either LIBOR or the banks cost of funds or as otherwise agreed upon by the bank and us. The $133.0 million outstanding at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2015 and the $57.0 million outstanding at the end of fiscal 2014 under the Uncommitted Facilities are classified as short-term in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. The weighted average interest rate on the Uncommitted Facilities was 1.12% at the end of first quarter of fiscal 2015 and 1.15% at the end of fiscal 2014. For additional discussion of our debt, see Note 8 of Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Repatriation of Foreign Earnings and Income Taxes As of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2015 , $122.8 million of cash and cash equivalents was held by our foreign subsidiaries. If these funds are needed for our operations in the U.S., we would not be required to accrue and pay U.S. taxes to repatriate the funds due to intercompany financing arrangements with our foreign subsidiaries. While a significant portion of our foreign earnings continue to be permanently reinvested in our foreign subsidiaries, it is anticipated this reinvestment will not impede cash needs at the parent company level. In our determination of which foreign earnings are permanently reinvested, we consider numerous factors, including the financial requirements of the U.S. parent company, the financial requirements of the foreign subsidiaries, and the tax consequences of remitting the foreign earnings back to the U.S. There are no other material impediments to our ability to access sources of liquidity and our resulting ability to meet short and long-term liquidity needs, other than in the event we are not in compliance with the covenants under our 2014 Credit Facility or the potential tax costs of remitting foreign earnings back to the U.S. RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES Our non-GAAP measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures. The non-GAAP financial measures included in the tables below as well as detailed explanations to the adjustments to comparable GAAP measures, are set forth below: Non-GAAP gross margin We believe our investors benefit by understanding our non-GAAP gross margin as a way of understanding how product mix, pricing decisions and manufacturing costs influence our business. Non-GAAP gross margin excludes restructuring costs, amortization of purchased intangible assets, and stock-based compensation from GAAP gross margin. We believe that these exclusions offer investors additional information that may be useful to view trends in our gross margin performance. Non-GAAP operating expenses We believe this measure is important to investors evaluating our non-GAAP spending in relation to revenue. Non-GAAP operating expenses exclude restructuring costs, amortization of purchased intangible assets, stock-based compensation, and acquisition/ 30 Table of Contents divestiture costs associated with external and incremental costs resulting directly from merger and acquisition activities such as legal, due diligence, and integration costs from GAAP operating expenses. We believe that these exclusions offer investors supplemental information to facilitate comparison of our operating expenses to our prior results. Non-GAAP operating income We believe our investors benefit by understanding our non-GAAP operating income trends which are driven by revenue, gross margin, and spending. Non-GAAP operating income excludes restructuring costs, amortization of purchased intangible assets, stock-based compensation, acquisition/divestiture costs associated with external and incremental costs resulting directly from merger and acquisition activities such as legal, due diligence, and integration costs and litigation expenses. We believe that these exclusions offer an alternative means for our investors to evaluate current operating performance compared to results of other periods. Non-GAAP non-operating income, net We believe this measure helps investors evaluate our non-operating income trends. Non-GAAP non-operating income, net excludes acquisition and divestiture gains/losses associated with unusual acquisition related items such as intangible asset impairment charges and gains or losses related to the acquisition or sale of certain businesses and investments, and a gain on an equity sale. These gains/losses are specific to particular acquisitions and divestitures and vary significantly in amount and timing. Non-GAAP non-operating income, net also excludes the write-off of debt issuance costs associated with terminated and/or modified credit facilities and costs associated with the issuance of new credit facilities and Senior Notes that were not capitalized as debt issuance costs. We believe that these exclusions provide investors with a supplemental view of our ongoing financial results. Non-GAAP income tax provision Non-GAAP items tax effected adjusts the provision for income taxes to reflect the effect of certain non-GAAP items on non-GAAP net income. We believe this information is useful to investors because it provides for consistent treatment of the excluded items in our non-GAAP presentation. Non-GAAP net income This measure provides a supplemental view of net income trends which are driven by non-GAAP income before taxes and our non-GAAP tax rate. Non-GAAP net income excludes restructuring costs, amortization of purchased intangible assets, stock-based compensation, acquisition and divestiture costs, a gain on an equity sale, a write off of debt issuance costs and non-GAAP tax adjustments from GAAP net income. We believe our investors benefit from understanding these exclusions and from an alternative view of our net income performance as compared to our past net income performance. Non-GAAP diluted net income per share We believe our investors benefit by understanding our non-GAAP operating performance as reflected in a per share calculation as a way of measuring non-GAAP operating performance by ownership in the company. Non-GAAP diluted net income per share excludes restructuring costs, amortization of purchased intangible assets, stock-based compensation, acquisition and divestiture costs, a gain on an equity sale, a write off of debt issuance costs and non-GAAP tax adjustments from GAAP diluted net income per share. We believe that these exclusions offer investors a useful view of our diluted net income per share as compared to our past diluted net income per share. Non-GAAP operating leverage We believe this information is beneficial to investors as a measure of how much incremental revenue is contributed to our operating income. Non-GAAP operating leverage is the increase in non-GAAP operating income as a percentage of the increase in revenue. We believe that this information offers investors supplemental information to evaluate our current performance and to compare to our past non-GAAP operating leverage. These non-GAAP measures can be used to evaluate our historical and prospective financial performance, as well as our performance relative to competitors. We believe some of our investors track our core operating performance as a means of evaluating our performance in the ordinary, ongoing, and customary course of our operations. Core operating performance excludes items that are non-cash, not expected to recur or not reflective of ongoing financial results. Management also believes that looking at our core operating performance provides a supplemental way to provide consistency in period to period comparisons. Accordingly, management excludes from non-GAAP those items relating to restructuring, amortization of purchased intangible assets, stock based compensation, acquisition and divestiture costs, a gain on an equity sale, a write off of debt issuance costs and non-GAAP tax adjustments. For detailed explanations of the adjustments made to comparable GAAP measures, see items (A) - ( I ) following the tables below. (In millions, except per share amounts) First Quarter of 31 Table of Contents 2015 2014 Dollar % of Dollar % of Amount Revenue Amount Revenue GROSS MARGIN: GAAP gross margin: $ 307.2 52.7 % $ 326.9 54.1 % Restructuring ( A ) 0.2 % 0.1 % Amortization of purchased intangible assets ( B ) 22.5 3.9 % 20.9 3.4 % Stock-based compensation ( C ) 0.9 0.2 % 0.7 0.1 % Non-GAAP gross margin: $ 330.8 56.8 % $ 348.6 57.6 % OPERATING EXPENSES: GAAP operating expenses: $ 267.7 45.9 % $ 251.2 41.5 % Restructuring ( A ) (1.1 ) (0.2 )% (0.3 ) (0.1 )% Amortization of purchased intangible assets ( B ) (18.2 ) (3.1 )% (19.7 ) (3.3 )% Stock-based compensation ( C ) (11.6 ) (2.0 )% (9.4 ) (1.5 )% Acquisition / divestiture items ( D ) (2.8 ) (0.5 )% (1.4 ) (0.2 )% Non-GAAP operating expenses: $ 234.0 40.1 % $ 220.4 36.4 % OPERATING INCOME: GAAP operating income: $ 39.5 6.8 % $ 75.7 12.5 % Restructuring ( A ) 1.3 0.2 % 0.4 0.1 % Amortization of purchased intangible assets ( B ) 40.7 7.0 % 40.6 6.7 % Stock-based compensation ( C ) 12.5 2.1 % 10.1 1.7 % Acquisition / divestiture items ( D ) 2.8 0.5 % 1.4 0.2 % Non-GAAP operating income: $ 96.8 16.6 % $ 128.2 21.2 % NON-OPERATING INCOME, NET: GAAP non-operating income, net: $ 4.7 $ 12.8 Acquisition / divestiture items ( D ) (5.8 ) 1.7 Gain on an equity sale ( E ) (15.1 ) Debt issuance cost write-off ( F ) (0.1 ) Non-GAAP non-operating loss, net: $ (1.2 ) $ (0.6 ) GAAP and Non-GAAP Tax Rate % ( I ) GAAP and Non-GAAP Tax Rate % ( I ) INCOME TAX PROVISION: GAAP income tax provision: $ 10.2 23 % $ 20.4 23 % Non-GAAP items tax effected: ( G ) 12.8 11.0 Tax on gain on an equity sale ( H ) (5.8 ) Non-GAAP income tax provision: $ 23.0 24 % $ 25.6 20 % NET INCOME: GAAP net income attributable to Trimble Navigation Ltd. $ 34.1 $ 68.6 Restructuring ( A ) 1.3 0.4 Amortization of purchased intangible assets ( B ) 40.7 40.6 Stock-based compensation ( C ) 12.5 10.1 Acquisition / divestiture items ( D ) (3.0 ) 3.1 Gain on an equity sale ( E ) (15.1 ) 32 Table of Contents Debt issuance cost write-off ( F ) (0.1 ) Non-GAAP tax adjustments ( G ), ( H ) (12.8 ) (5.2 ) Non-GAAP net income attributable to Trimble Navigation Ltd. $ 72.7 $ 102.5 DILUTED NET INCOME PER SHARE: GAAP diluted net income per share attributable to Trimble Navigation Ltd. $ 0.13 $ 0.26 Restructuring ( A ) Amortization of purchased intangible assets ( B ) 0.16 0.16 Stock-based compensation ( C ) 0.05 0.04 Acquisition / divestiture items ( D ) (0.01 ) 0.01 Gain on an equity sale ( E ) (0.06 ) Debt issuance cost write-off ( F ) Non-GAAP tax adjustments ( G ), ( H ) (0.05 ) (0.02 ) Non-GAAP diluted net income per share attributable to Trimble Navigation Ltd. $ 0.28 $ 0.39 OPERATING LEVERAGE: Increase (decrease) in non-GAAP operating income $ (31.4 ) $ 17.9 Increase (decrease) in revenue $ (22.1 ) $ 48.6 Operating leverage (increase in non-GAAP operating income as a % of increase in revenue) N/A 36.8 % A. Restructuring costs. Included in our GAAP presentation of cost of sales and operating expenses, restructuring costs recorded are primarily for employee compensation resulting from reductions in employee headcount in connection with our company restructurings. We exclude restructuring costs from our non-GAAP measures because we believe they do not reflect expected future operating expenses, they are not indicative of our core operating performance, and they are not meaningful in comparisons to our past operating performance. We have incurred restructuring expense in each of the periods presented however the amount incurred can vary significantly based on whether a restructuring has occurred in the period and the timing of headcount reductions. B. Amortization of purchased intangible assets. Included in our GAAP presentation of gross margin and operating expenses is amortization of purchased intangible assets. US GAAP accounting requires that intangible assets are recorded at fair value and amortized over their useful lives. Consequently, the timing and size of our acquisitions will cause our operating results to vary from period to period, making a comparison to past performance difficult for investors. This accounting treatment may cause differences when comparing our results to companies that grow internally because the fair value assigned to the intangible assets acquired through acquisition may significantly exceed the equivalent expenses that a company may incur for similar efforts when performed internally. Furthermore, the useful life that we expense our intangible assets over may be substantially different from the time period that an internal growth company incurs and recognizes such expenses. We believe that by excluding the amortization of purchased intangible assets, which primarily represents technology and/or customer relationships already developed, it provides an alternative way for investors to compare our operations pre-acquisition to those post-acquisition and to those of our competitors that have pursued internal growth strategies. However, we note that companies that grow internally will incur costs to develop intangible assets that will be expensed in the period incurred, which may make a direct comparison more difficult. C. Stock-based compensation. Included in our GAAP presentation of cost of sales and operating expenses, stock-based compensation consists of expenses for employee stock options and awards and purchase rights under our employee stock purchase plan. We exclude stock-based compensation expense from our non-GAAP measures because some investors may view it as not reflective of our core operating performance as it is a non-cash expense. For the first quarter of fiscal 2015 and 2014, stock-based compensation was allocated as follows: 33 Table of Contents First Quarter of (Dollars in millions) 2015 2014 Cost of sales $ 0.9 $ 0.7 Research and development 2.2 1.5 Sales and Marketing 2.3 1.9 General and administrative 7.1 6.0 $ 12.5 $ 10.1 D. Acquisition / divestiture items. Included in our GAAP presentation of operating expenses, acquisition costs consist of external and incremental costs resulting directly from merger and acquisition and strategic investment activities such as legal, due diligence, and integration costs as well as adjustments to the fair value of earn-out liabilities. Included in our GAAP presentation of non-operating income net, acquisition / divestiture items includes unusual acquisition, investment, or divestiture gains/losses. Although we do numerous acquisitions, the costs that have been excluded from the non-GAAP measures are costs specific to particular acquisitions. These are one-time costs that vary significantly in amount and timing and are not indicative of our core operating performance. E. Gain on an equity sale. Included in our GAAP presentation of non-operating income, net this amount represents a gain on a partial equity sale of Virtual Site Solutions. We excluded the gain from our non-GAAP measures. We believe that investors benefit from excluding this item from our non-GAAP measures because it facilitates an evaluation of our non-operating income trends. F. Debt issuance cost write-off. Included in our GAAP non-operating income, net this amount represents a write-off of debt issuance costs for terminated and/or modified credit facilities and costs associated with the issuance of new credit facilities and Senior Notes that were not capitalized as debt issuance costs. We excluded the debt issuance cost write-off from our non-GAAP measures. We believe that investors benefit from excluding this item from our non-operating income to facilitate a more meaningful evaluation of our non-operating income trends. G. Non-GAAP items tax effected. This amount adjusts the provision for income taxes to reflect the effect of the non-GAAP items ( A ) - ( F ) on non-GAAP net income. We believe this information is useful to investors because it provides for consistent treatment of the excluded items in this non-GAAP presentation. H. Tax on gain on an equity sale. This amount represents the tax effect of a gain on a partial equity sale of Virtual Site Solutions. We excluded this item as it represents the tax effect of a non-recurring gain. We believe that investors benefit from excluding this item from our non-GAAP income tax provision because it facilitates a comparison of the non-GAAP tax rate in 2014 to the non-GAAP tax rates in the current and prior periods. I. GAAP and non-GAAP tax rate %. These percentages are defined as GAAP income tax provision as a percentage of GAAP income before taxes and non-GAAP income tax provision as a percentage of non-GAAP income before taxes. We believe that investors benefit from a presentation of non-GAAP tax rate percentage as a way of facilitating a comparison to non-GAAP tax rates in prior periods. Non-GAAP Operating Income Non-GAAP operating income decreased by $31.4 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 , as compared to the first quarter in the prior year. Non-GAAP operating income as a percentage of total revenue was 16.6% for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 , as compared to 21.2% for the first quarter in the prior year. The Non-GAAP operating income for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 decreased due to revenue shortfalls in Engineering and Construction and Field Solutions as well as gross margin compression in Engineering and Construction. Acquisitions also contributed to the operating income decline, particularly within Engineering and Construction.