Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as may, will, should, could, predicts, potential, continue, expects, anticipates, future, intends, plans, believes, estimates, and similar expressions. These forward-looking statements involve certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, levels of activity, performance, achievements, and events to differ materially from those implied by such forward-looking statements, including but not limited to those discussed in Risk Factors below and elsewhere in this report, as well as in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year 2015 and in other reports Trimble files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, each as it may be amended from time to time. These forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We reserve the right to update these forward-looking statements for any reason, including the occurrence of material events, but assume no duty to update these statements to reflect subsequent events. ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U. S. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable. Although these estimates are based on our best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact us in the future, actual results may be different from the estimates. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable. Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact the company in the future, actual results may be different from the estimates. Management believes that there have been no significant changes during the first quarter of fiscal 2016 to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting policies and estimates in the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS For a summary of recent accounting pronouncements applicable to our Consolidated Financial Statements, see Note 2 to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1, which is incorporated herein by reference. 20 Table of Contents EXECUTIVE LEVEL OVERVIEW Trimble is a leading provider of technology solutions that optimize the work processes of office and mobile field professionals around the world. Our comprehensive process solutions are used across a range of industries including agriculture, architecture, civil engineering, construction, environmental management, government, natural resources, transportation and utilities. Representative Trimble customers include engineering and construction firms, contractors, surveying companies, farmers and agricultural companies, enterprise firms with large-scale fleets, energy, mining and utility companies, and state, federal and municipal governments. Trimble focuses on integrating its broad technological and application capabilities to create vertically-focused, system-level solutions that transform how work is done within the industries we serve. The integration of sensors, software, connectivity, and information in our portfolio gives us the unique ability to provide an information model specific to the customers workflow. For example, in construction, our strategy is centered on the concept of a "constructible model" which is at the center of our "Connected Construction Site" solutions which provide real-time, connected, and cohesive information environments for the design, build, and operational phases of projects. In agriculture, we continue to develop Connected Farm solutions to optimize operations across the agriculture workflow. In transportation and logistics, we provide transportation companies with tools to enhance fuel efficiency, safety, and transparency through connected vehicles and fleets across the enterprise. Our growth strategy is centered on multiple elements: Focus on attractive markets with significant growth and profitability potential - We focus on large markets historically underserved by technology that offer significant potential for long-term revenue growth, profitability and market leadership. Our core industries such as construction, agriculture, and transportation markets are each multi-trillion dollar global industries which operate in increasingly demanding environments with technology adoption in the early phases relative to other industries. With the emergence of mobile computing capabilities, the increasing technological know-how of end users and the compelling return on investment to our customers, we believe many of our markets are ripe for substituting Trimbles technology and solutions in place of traditional operating methods. Domain knowledge and technological innovation that benefit a diverse customer base - We have over time redefined our technological focus from hardware-driven point solutions to integrated work process solutions by developing domain expertise and heavily reinvesting in R&D and acquisitions. We have been spending an average of 13% to 14% of revenue over the past several years on R&D and currently have over 1,100 unique patents. We intend to continue to take advantage of our technology portfolio and deep domain knowledge to quickly and cost-effectively deliver specific, targeted solutions to each of the vertical markets we serve. We look for opportunities where the need for technological change is high and which have a requirement for the integration of multiple technologies into complete vertical solutions. Increasing focus on software and services - Software and services are increasingly important elements of our solutions and are core to our growth strategy. Trimble has an open application programming interface (API) philosophy and open vendor environment which leads to increased adoption of our software offerings. Professional services constitute an additional growth channel that helps our customers integrate and optimize the use of our offerings in their environment. The increased recurring revenue from these solutions will provide us with enhanced business visibility over time. Geographic expansion with localization strategy - We view international expansion as an important element of our strategy and we continue to position ourselves in geographic markets that will serve as important sources of future growth. We currently have a physical presence in 43 countries and distribution channels in over 100 countries. In the first quarter of fiscal 2016, 51% of our sales were to customers located in countries outside of the U.S. Optimized distribution channels to best access our markets - We utilize vertically-focused distribution channels that leverage domain expertise to best serve the needs of individual markets domestically and abroad. These channels include independent dealers, joint ventures, original equipment manufacturers (OEM) sales, and distribution alliances with key partners, such as CNH Global, Caterpillar, and Nikon, as well as direct sales to end-users, that provide us with broad market reach and localization capabilities to effectively serve our markets. Strategic acquisitions - Organic growth continues to be our primary focus, while acquisitions serve to enhance our market position. We acquire businesses that bring technology, products, or distribution capabilities that augment our portfolio and allow us to penetrate existing markets more effectively, or to establish a market beachhead. Our level of success in targeting and effectively integrating acquisitions is an important aspect of our growth strategy. Trimbles focus on these growth drivers has led over time to growth in revenue and profitability as well as an increasingly diversified business model. Software and services growth is driving increased recurring revenue, leading to improved visibility in our business. As our solutions have expanded, our go to market model has also evolved, with a balanced mix between direct, distribution and OEM customers, and an increasing number of enterprise level customer relationships. 21 Table of Contents For the first quarter of 2016, revenue was flat as compared to the first quarter of 2015. By geography, performance in the first quarter was mixed. Asia, Europe, and Rest of World were down year over year, and North America was up slightly. Within the quarter, we continued to experience a shift in revenue towards a more significant mix of software, recurring revenue, and services, driven both by organic growth and acquisitions. During the first quarter of 2016, we completed two acquisitions for total consideration of $10.0 million, most significant of which was our acquisition of Sefaira Ltd., a developer of cloud-based software for the design of sustainable and high-performance buildings, based in London and New York. The acquisitions' results are reported under our Engineering and Construction business segment. Seasonality of Business Construction purchases tend to occur in early spring, and U.S. governmental agencies tend to utilize funds available at the end of the governments fiscal year for additional purchases at the end of our third fiscal quarter in September of each year. Our agricultural equipment business revenues have historically been the highest in the first quarter, followed by the second quarter, reflecting buying in anticipation of the spring planting season in the Northern hemisphere. However, overall as a company, as a result of diversification of our business across segments and the increased impact of subscription revenues, we may experience less seasonality in the future. Changes in global macroeconomic conditions could also impact the level of seasonality we experience. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview The following table is a summary of revenue, gross margin and operating income for the periods indicated and should be read in conjunction with the narrative descriptions below. First Quarter of 2016 2015 (Dollars in millions) Revenue: Product $ 393.6 $ 400.6 Service 101.6 100.9 Subscription 87.8 81.1 Total revenue $ 583.0 $ 582.6 Gross margin $ 300.6 $ 307.2 Gross margin % 51.6 % 52.7 % Operating income $ 29.9 $ 39.5 Operating income % 5.1 % 6.8 % Revenue In the first quarter of fiscal 2016 , total revenue was flat as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2015. Subscription revenue increased $6.7 million or 8% , service revenue increased $0.7 million or 1% , partially offset by a decrease in product revenue of $7.0 million or 2% . Service and subscription increases were primarily due to organic growth within Mobile Solutions and to a lesser extent, acquisition growth within Field Solutions. The product revenue decrease was primarily within Field Solutions and Advanced Devices, partially offset by increases in Engineering and Construction and Mobile Solutions. We consider organic growth to include all revenue except for revenue associated with acquisitions made within the last four quarters. On a segment basis, Engineering and Construction revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 increased $10.5 million or 4% and Mobile Solutions increased $8.1 million or 6% , partially offset by a decrease in Field Solutions of $9.3 million or 8% and a decrease in Advanced Devices of $8.9 million or 22% , as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2015 . Engineering and Construction increased revenue was primarily driven by heavy civil organic and acquisition growth, partially offset by geospatial due to continued weakness as a result of the effects of oil price declines on regional economies. Mobile Solutions revenue increased due to continued growth in the transportation and logistics market. The decline in Field Solutions revenue was primarily due to continued softness in agricultural markets. Advanced Devices revenue decreased primarily due to weaker OEM and end user sales. Gross Margin 22 Table of Contents Gross margin varies due to a number of factors including product mix, pricing, distribution channel, production volumes and foreign currency translations. Gross margin decreased by $6.6 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 , as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2015 . Gross margin as a percentage of total revenue was 51.6% for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 , as compared to 52.7% for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 . The decrease was primarily due to geographic mix in Field Solutions and the impact of product mix in transportation and logistics within Mobile Solutions. Operating Income Operating income decreased by $9.6 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 , as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2015 . Operating income as a percentage of total revenue was 5.1% for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 , as compared to 6.8% for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 . The decrease in operating income and operating income percentage for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 was primarily due to revenue declines in Field Solutions and Advanced Devices and the impact of product mix and growth investments in Mobile Solutions. Results by Segment To achieve distribution, marketing, production, and technology advantages in our targeted markets, we manage our operations in the following four segments: Engineering and Construction, Field Solutions, Mobile Solutions, and Advanced Devices. Operating income is revenue less cost of sales and operating expense, excluding general corporate expense, acquisition/divestiture costs, amortization of purchased intangible assets, restructuring charges, stock-based compensation and executive transition costs. The following table is a summary of revenue and operating income by segment: First Quarter of 2016 2015 (Dollars in millions) Engineering and Construction Revenue $ 309.8 $ 299.3 Segment revenue as a percent of total revenue 53 % 51 % Operating income $ 44.1 $ 37.0 Operating income as a percent of segment revenue 14 % 12 % Field Solutions Revenue $ 106.0 $ 115.3 Segment revenue as a percent of total revenue 18 % 20 % Operating income $ 33.9 $ 40.6 Operating income as a percent of segment revenue 32 % 35 % Mobile Solutions Revenue $ 136.3 $ 128.2 Segment revenue as a percent of total revenue 23 % 22 % Operating income $ 18.9 $ 20.5 Operating income as a percent of segment revenue 14 % 16 % Advanced Devices Revenue $ 30.9 $ 39.8 Segment revenue as a percent of total revenue 6 % 7 % Operating income $ 10.3 $ 15.2 Operating income as a percent of segment revenue 33 % 38 % A reconciliation of our consolidated segment operating income to consolidated income before taxes follows: 23 Table of Contents First Quarter of 2016 2015 (Dollars in millions) Consolidated segment operating income $ 107.2 $ 113.3 Unallocated corporate expense (21.2 ) (19.3 ) Restructuring charges (2.1 ) (1.3 ) Stock-based compensation (13.7 ) (12.5 ) Amortization of purchased intangible assets (40.3 ) (40.7 ) Consolidated operating income 29.9 39.5 Non-operating income (expense), net: (0.5 ) 4.7 Consolidated income before taxes $ 29.4 $ 44.2 Unallocated corporate expense includes general corporate expense, acquisition costs and executive transition costs. Engineering and Construction Engineering and Construction revenue increased by $10.5 million or 4% for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 , as compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2015 . Segment operating income increased by $7.1 million or 19% for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 , as compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2015 . The revenue increase for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 was primarily driven by heavy civil organic and acquisition growth with strength in most regions, while geospatial was down with continued weakness as a result of the effects of oil price declines on regional economies, primarily in North America. To a lesser extent, building construction contributed to the growth. Operating income increased due to stronger revenue and gross margins in heavy civil and cost containment in building construction and geospatial, which offset some of the effects of the revenue decline in geospatial. Field Solutions Field Solutions revenue decreased by $9.3 million or 8% for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 , as compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2015 . Segment operating income decreased by $6.7 million or 17% for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 , as compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2015 . Field Solutions revenue decreased for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 primarily due to continued softness in agriculture markets, impacted negatively by difficult markets in North America and Brazil, partially offset by growth due to acquisitions. Operating income decreased due to agriculture revenue and gross margin declines, partially offset by cost containment actions. The agriculture markets remain challenging and although our expectation is that our product sales will improve, to the extent that negative trends continue, our revenue and operating income could be further impacted. Mobile Solutions Mobile Solutions revenue increased by $8.1 million or 6% for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 , as compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2015 . Segment operating income decreased by $1.6 million or 8% for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 , as compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2015 . Mobile Solutions revenue increased for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 primarily due to continued organic growth in the transportation and logistics business, with strength expected throughout the year as a result of large customer wins. Although revenue was up, operating income was down primarily due to the impact of lower margin product mix and growth related investments in the business. We expect that Mobile Solutions operating income will improve as a result of increased revenue and improved gross margin mix. However, both revenue and operating income could be negatively impacted to the extent that the deployment of these large customer shipments are delayed. Advanced Devices Advanced Devices revenue decreased by $8.9 million or 22% for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 , as compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2015 . Segment operating income decreased by $4.9 million or 32% for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 , as compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2015 . Advanced Devices revenue decreased for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 primarily due to weaker OEM and end user sales, as the prior period included unusually strong sales. Advanced Devices revenue can be lumpy due to the timing of these sales. Operating income decreased primarily due to the revenue declines. 24 Table of Contents Research and Development, Sales and Marketing and General and Administrative Expense Research and development (R&D), sales and marketing (S&M) and general and administrative (G&A) expense are summarized in the following table: First Quarter of 2016 2015 (Dollars in millions) Research and development $ 87.7 $ 87.2 Percentage of revenue 15 % 15 % Sales and marketing $ 96.7 $ 96.5 Percentage of revenue 16 % 17 % General and administrative $ 68.3 $ 64.7 Percentage of revenue 12 % 11 % Total $ 252.7 $ 248.4 Percentage of revenue 43 % 43 % Overall, R&D, S&M and G&A expense increased by approximately $4.3 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 , as compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2015 . Research and development expense was flat for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 , as compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2015 . Overall, research and development spending was 15% of revenue in the first quarter of both fiscal 2016 and 2015 . As compared to the prior year, first quarter of fiscal 2016 research and development expense increased 4% due to expense from acquisitions not applicable in the prior corresponding period, partially offset by a 2% decrease due to favorable foreign exchange rates and a 2% decrease due to lower compensation and other expenses. We believe that the development and introduction of new products are critical to our future success and we expect to continue active development of new products. Sales and marketing expense was flat for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 , as compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2015 . Overall, spending for sales and marketing was 16% of revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 versus 17% in the corresponding period of fiscal 2015 . As compared to the prior year, first quarter of fiscal 2016 sales and marketing expense increased 3% due to expense from acquisitions not applicable in the prior corresponding period and a 1% increase due to higher compensation, partially offset by a 2% decrease due to a decrease in other expenses and a 2% decrease due to favorable foreign exchange rates. General and administrative expense increased by $3.6 million , or 6% , for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 , as compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2015 . Overall, general and administrative spending was 12% of revenue in first quarter of fiscal 2016 versus 11% in the corresponding period of fiscal 2015 . As compared to the prior year, first quarter of fiscal 2016 general and administrative expense increased 4% due to expense from acquisitions not applicable in the prior corresponding period, a 3% increase due to increased consulting expense and a 1% increase due to executive transition costs, partially offset by a 1% decrease due to favorable foreign exchange rates and a 1% decrease in other expenses. Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets Amortization of purchased intangible assets was $40.3 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 , as compared to $40.7 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 . Of the total $40.3 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 , $16.2 million is presented as a separate line within Operating expense and $24.1 million is presented as a separate line within Cost of sales in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. Of the total $40.7 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 , $18.2 million is presented as a separate line within Operating expense and $22.5 million is presented as a separate line within Cost of sales in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. Amortization in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 reflects acquisitions not included in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 offset by the expiration of amortization for prior acquisitions. As of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2016 future amortization of intangible assets is expected to be $112.7 million during the remainder of fiscal 2016 , $130.7 million during 2017 , $101.9 million during 2018 , $60.2 million during 2019 , $31.4 million during 2020 and $15.6 million thereafter. 25 Table of Contents Non-operating Income (Expense), Net The components of Non-operating income (expense), net, were as follows: First Quarter of 2016 2015 (Dollars in millions) Interest expense $ (6.6 ) $ (6.4 ) Foreign currency transaction gain (loss), net (0.1 ) 1.1 Income from equity method investments, net 2.9 3.0 Other income, net 3.3 7.0 Total non-operating income (expense), net $ (0.5 ) $ 4.7 Non-operating income (expense), net decreased $5.2 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 , as compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2015 . The decrease was primarily related to gains recognized on divested businesses, as well as changes in net foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Income Tax Provision Our effective income tax rate, after discrete items, for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 was 33%, as compared to 23% in the corresponding period in fiscal 2015. The rate increase in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 was primarily due to an increase in nondeductible expenses and other discrete items. This compared to a rate decrease in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 due to a benefit resulting from the closure of a foreign tax audit. Historically, our effective tax rate has been lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to the favorable tax rates associated with certain earnings from operations in lower-tax jurisdictions. We have not provided U.S. taxes for such earnings due to the indefinite reinvestment of some of those earnings outside the U.S. OFF-BALANCE SHEET FINANCINGS AND LIABILITIES Other than lease commitments incurred in the normal course of business, we do not have any off-balance sheet financing arrangements or liabilities, guarantee contracts, retained or contingent interests in transferred assets, or any obligation arising out of a material variable interest in an unconsolidated entity. We do not have any majority-owned subsidiaries that are not included in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Additionally, we do not have any interest in, or relationship with, any special purpose entities. In the normal course of business to facilitate sales of our products, we indemnify other parties, including customers, lessors and parties to other transactions with us, with respect to certain matters. We have agreed to hold the other party harmless against losses arising from a breach of representations or covenants, or out of intellectual property infringement or other claims made against certain parties. These agreements may limit the time within which an indemnification claim can be made and the amount of the claim. From time to time, in connection with divesting some of our businesses or assets, we may also indemnify purchasers for certain matters in the normal course of business, such as breaches of representations, covenants or excluded liabilities. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our officers and directors, and our bylaws contain similar indemnification obligations to our agents. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments made by us under these agreements were not material and no liabilities have been recorded for these obligations on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2016 and fiscal year end 2015 . 26 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES First Quarter of Fiscal Year End As of 2016 2015 (In millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 174.7 $ 116.0 As a percentage of total assets 4.7 % 3.2 % Principal balance of outstanding debt 680.3 735.2 First Quarter of 2016 2015 (In millions) Cash provided by operating activities $ 113.2 $ 107.2 Cash used in investing activities (8.3 ) (35.4 ) Cash used in financing activities (49.9 ) (65.2 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 3.7 (8.9 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 58.7 $ (2.3 ) Cash and Cash Equivalents As of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2016 , cash and cash equivalents totaled $174.7 million as compared to $116.0 million as of fiscal year end 2015 . We had a principal balance of outstanding debt of $680.3 million as of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2016 , as compared to $735.2 million as of fiscal year end 2015 . Our ability to continue to generate cash from operations will depend in large part on profitability, the rate of collections of accounts receivable, our inventory turns and our ability to manage other areas of working capital. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents, together with borrowings under our 2014 Credit Facility as described below under the heading Debt, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs, debt service, planned capital expenditures, acquisitions and stock repurchases under the stock repurchase program for at least the next twelve months. We anticipate that planned capital expenditures primarily for enhancements of our Oracle ERP system, computer equipment, software, manufacturing tools and test equipment and leasehold improvements associated with business expansion, will constitute a partial use of our cash resources. Decisions related to how much cash is used for investing are influenced by the expected amount of cash to be provided by operations. Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities was $113.2 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 , as compared to $107.2 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 . The increase of $6.0 million was primarily driven by a decrease in working capital requirements. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities was $8.3 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 , as compared to $35.4 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 . The decrease of $27.1 million was due to reduced spending for business acquisitions. Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities was $49.9 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 , as compared to $65.2 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 . The decrease of cash used in financing activities of $15.3 million was primarily due to an increase in net proceeds from debt and revolving credit lines. 27 Table of Contents Accounts Receivable and Inventory Metrics First Quarter of Fiscal Year End As of 2016 2015 Accounts receivable days sales outstanding 59 59 Inventory turns per year 4.1 4.0 Accounts receivable days sales outstanding were both 59 days as of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2016 and the end of fiscal 2015 . Accounts receivable days sales outstanding are calculated based on ending accounts receivable, net, divided by revenue for the corresponding fiscal quarter, times a quarterly average of 91 days. Our inventory turns were 4.1 as of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2016 and 4.0 as of the end of fiscal 2015 . Our inventory turnover is calculated based on total cost of sales for the most recent twelve months divided by average ending inventory, net, for this same twelve month period. Debt Notes In November 2014, we issued $400.0 million of Senior Notes (Notes) in a public offering registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Notes mature on December 1, 2024 and accrue interest at a rate of 4.75% per annum, payable semiannually in arrears in cash on December 1 and June 1 of each year. In connection with the Notes offering, we entered into an Indenture with U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee. We may redeem the Notes at our option at any time, in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the Indenture. Further details regarding the terms of the Notes, including the redemption rights, and the Indenture, are provided in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2015. 2014 Credit Facility In November 2014, we entered into a five-year credit agreement with a group of lenders (the 2014 Credit Facility), which provides for an unsecured revolving loan facility of $1.0 billion. Under the 2014 Credit Facility, we may borrow, repay and reborrow funds under the revolving loan facility until its maturity on November 24, 2019, at which time the revolving facility will terminate, and all outstanding loans, together with all accrued and unpaid interest, must be repaid. The interest rate on the non-current debt outstanding under the 2014 Credit Facility was 1.66% and 1.46% at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2016 and fiscal year end 2015, respectively, and is payable on a quarterly basis. Amounts not borrowed under the revolving facility will be subject to a commitment fee. We were in compliance with all covenants pertaining to the 2014 Credit Facility at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2016. Uncommitted Facilities We also have two $75 million revolving credit facilities which are uncommitted (the "Uncommitted Facilities"). The Uncommitted Facilities may be called by the lenders at any time, have no covenants and no specified expiration date. The $135.0 million outstanding at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2016 and the $118.0 million outstanding at the end of fiscal 2015 under the Uncommitted Facilities are considered short-term. The weighted average interest rate on the Uncommitted Facilities was both 1.37% at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2016 and the end of fiscal 2015. Promissory Notes and Other Debt At the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2016 and the end of fiscal 2015, the Company had promissory notes and other notes payable totaling approximately $1.3 million and $1.2 million , respectively, of which $1.0 million and $0.9 million was classified as long-term in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. For additional discussion of our debt, see Note 7 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Repatriation of Foreign Earnings and Income Taxes As of the first quarter of fiscal 2016 , $157.5 million of cash and cash equivalents was held by our foreign subsidiaries, of which $11.0 million was borrowed from the U.S. under intercompany financing arrangements. If these loaned funds are needed for our operations in the U.S., we would not be required to accrue and pay U.S. federal and state taxes to repatriate the loaned funds. We expect that over the next quarter these intercompany financing arrangements will be repaid and after such repayment, we would be required to pay U.S. federal and state taxes upon any repatriation of remaining cash held by our foreign subsidiaries. While a significant portion of our foreign earnings continue to be permanently reinvested in our foreign subsidiaries, it is anticipated this reinvestment will not impede cash needs at the parent company level. However, if we were to make significant acquisitions or stock repurchases, we may be required to increase our outstanding indebtedness, which could result in increased borrowing costs. In our determination of which foreign earnings are permanently reinvested, we consider numerous factors, including the financial requirements of the U.S. parent company, the financial requirements of the foreign subsidiaries, and the tax consequences of remitting the foreign earnings back to the U.S. There are no other material impediments to our ability to access sources of liquidity 28 Table of Contents and our resulting ability to meet short and long-term liquidity needs, other than in the event we are not in compliance with the covenants under our 2014 Credit Facility or the potential tax costs of remitting foreign earnings back to the U.S. RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES Our non-GAAP measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures. The non-GAAP financial measures included in the tables below as well as detailed explanations to the adjustments to comparable GAAP measures, are set forth below: Non-GAAP gross margin We believe our investors benefit by understanding our non-GAAP gross margin as a way of understanding how product mix, pricing decisions and manufacturing costs influence our business. Non-GAAP gross margin excludes restructuring costs, amortization of purchased intangible assets and stock-based compensation from GAAP gross margin. We believe that these exclusions offer investors additional information that may be useful to view trends in our gross margin performance. Non-GAAP operating expenses We believe this measure is important to investors evaluating our non-GAAP spending in relation to revenue. Non-GAAP operating expenses exclude restructuring costs, amortization of purchased intangible assets, stock-based compensation, acquisition/divestiture costs associated with external and incremental costs resulting directly from merger and acquisition activities such as legal, due diligence, and integration costs, and executive transition costs from GAAP operating expenses. We believe that these exclusions offer investors supplemental information to facilitate comparison of our operating expenses to our prior results. Non-GAAP operating income We believe our investors benefit by understanding our non-GAAP operating income trends which are driven by revenue, gross margin, and spending. Non-GAAP operating income excludes restructuring costs, amortization of purchased intangible assets, stock-based compensation, acquisition/divestiture costs associated with external and incremental costs resulting directly from merger and acquisition activities such as legal, due diligence, and integration costs, and executive transition costs. We believe that these exclusions offer an alternative means for our investors to evaluate current operating performance compared to results of other periods. Non-GAAP non-operating income (expense), net We believe this measure helps investors evaluate our non-operating income trends. Non-GAAP non-operating income (expense), net excludes acquisition and divestiture gains/losses associated with unusual acquisition related items such as intangible asset impairment charges and gains or losses related to the acquisition or sale of certain businesses and investments. Non-GAAP non-operating income (expense), net also excludes the write-off of debt issuance cost associated with terminated and/or modified credit facilities and costs associated with the issuance of new credit facilities and Senior Notes that were not capitalized as debt issuance costs. We believe that these exclusions provide investors with a supplemental view of our ongoing financial results. Non-GAAP income tax provision We believe that providing investors with the non-GAAP income tax provision is beneficial because it provides for consistent treatment of the excluded items in our non-GAAP presentation. Non-GAAP net income This measure provides a supplemental view of net income trends which are driven by non-GAAP income before taxes and our non-GAAP tax rate. Non-GAAP net income excludes restructuring costs, amortization of purchased intangible assets, stock-based compensation, acquisition and divestiture costs, executive transition costs, write-off of debt issuance cost and non-GAAP tax adjustments from GAAP net income. We believe our investors benefit from understanding these exclusions and from an alternative view of our net income performance as compared to our past net income performance. Non-GAAP diluted net income per share We believe our investors benefit by understanding our non-GAAP operating performance as reflected in a per share calculation as a way of measuring non-GAAP operating performance by ownership in the company. Non-GAAP diluted net income per share excludes restructuring costs, amortization of purchased intangible assets, stock-based compensation, acquisition and divestiture costs, executive transition costs, a write-off of debt issuance costs and non-GAAP tax adjustments from GAAP diluted net income per share. We believe that these exclusions offer investors a useful view of our diluted net income per share as compared to our past diluted net income per share. 29 Table of Contents These non-GAAP measures can be used to evaluate our historical and prospective financial performance, as well as our performance relative to competitors. We believe some of our investors track our ""core operating performance"" as a means of evaluating our performance in the ordinary, ongoing, and customary course of our operations. Core operating performance excludes items that are non-cash, not expected to recur or not reflective of ongoing financial results. Management also believes that looking at our core operating performance provides a supplemental way to provide consistency in period to period comparisons. Accordingly, management excludes from non-GAAP those items relating to restructuring, amortization of purchased intangible assets, stock based compensation, acquisition and divestiture items, executive transition costs, write-off of debt issuance costs and non-GAAP tax adjustments. For detailed explanations of the adjustments made to comparable GAAP measures, see items (A) - ( I ) below. (In millions, except per share amounts) First Quarter of 2016 2015 Dollar % of Dollar % of Amount Revenue Amount Revenue GROSS MARGIN: GAAP gross margin: $ 300.6 51.6 % $ 307.2 52.7 % Restructuring charges ( A ) 0.3 0.1 % 0.2 % Amortization of purchased intangible assets ( B ) 24.1 4.0 % 22.5 3.9 % Stock-based compensation ( C ) 1.0 0.2 % 0.9 0.2 % Non-GAAP gross margin: $ 326.0 55.9 % $ 330.8 56.8 % OPERATING EXPENSES: GAAP operating expenses: $ 270.7 46.4 % $ 267.7 45.9 % Restructuring charges ( A ) (1.8 ) (0.3 )% (1.1 ) (0.2 )% Amortization of purchased intangible assets ( B ) (16.2 ) (2.8 )% (18.2 ) (3.1 )% Stock-based compensation ( C ) (12.7 ) (2.2 )% (11.6 ) (2.0 )% Acquisition / divestiture items ( D ) (1.6 ) (0.3 )% (2.8 ) (0.5 )% Executive transition costs ( E ) (0.9 ) (0.1 )% % Non-GAAP operating expenses: $ 237.5 40.7 % $ 234.0 40.1 % OPERATING INCOME: GAAP operating income: $ 29.9 5.1 % $ 39.5 6.8 % Restructuring charges ( A ) 2.1 0.4 % 1.3 0.2 % Amortization of purchased intangible assets ( B ) 40.3 6.8 % 40.7 7.0 % Stock-based compensation ( C ) 13.7 2.4 % 12.5 2.1 % Acquisition / divestiture items ( D ) 1.6 0.3 % 2.8 0.5 % Executive transition costs ( E ) 0.9 0.1 % % Non-GAAP operating income: $ 88.5 15.1 % $ 96.8 16.6 % NON-OPERATING INCOME (EXPENSE), NET: GAAP non-operating income (expense), net: $ (0.5 ) $ 4.7 Acquisition / divestiture items ( D ) (3.1 ) (5.8 ) Debt issuance cost write-off ( F ) (0.1 ) Non-GAAP non-operating income (expense), net: $ (3.6 ) $ (1.2 ) GAAP and Non-GAAP Tax Rate % ( I ) GAAP and Non-GAAP Tax Rate % ( I ) INCOME TAX PROVISION: 30 Table of Contents GAAP income tax provision: $ 9.7 33 % $ 10.2 23 % Non-GAAP items tax effected: ( G ) 18.3 11.8 Difference in GAAP and Non-GAAP tax rate ( H ) (7.5 ) 1.0 Non-GAAP income tax provision: $ 20.5 24 % $ 23.0 24 % NET INCOME: GAAP net income attributable to Trimble Navigation Limited $ 19.8 $ 34.1 Restructuring charges ( A ) 2.1 1.3 Amortization of purchased intangible assets ( B ) 40.3 40.7 Stock-based compensation ( C ) 13.7 12.5 Acquisition / divestiture items ( D ) (1.5 ) (3.0 ) Executive transition costs ( E ) 0.9 Debt issuance cost write-off ( F ) (0.1 ) Non-GAAP tax adjustments ( G ) + ( H ) (10.8 ) (12.8 ) Non-GAAP net income attributable to Trimble Navigation Limited $ 64.5 $ 72.7 DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE: GAAP diluted earnings per share attributable to Trimble Navigation Limited $ 0.08 $ 0.13 Restructuring charges ( A ) 0.01 Amortization of purchased intangible assets ( B ) 0.16 0.16 Stock-based compensation ( C ) 0.05 0.05 Acquisition / divestiture items ( D ) (0.01 ) (0.01 ) Executive transition costs ( E ) Debt issuance cost write-off ( F ) Non-GAAP tax adjustments ( G ) + ( H ) (0.04 ) (0.05 ) Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share attributable to Trimble Navigation Limited $ 0.25 $ 0.28 A. Restructuring costs. Included in our GAAP presentation of cost of sales and operating expenses, restructuring costs recorded are primarily for employee compensation resulting from reductions in employee headcount in connection with our company restructurings. We exclude restructuring costs from our non-GAAP measures because we believe they do not reflect expected future operating expenses, they are not indicative of our core operating performance, and they are not meaningful in comparisons to our past operating performance. We have incurred restructuring expense in each of the periods presented. However the amount incurred can vary significantly based on whether a restructuring has occurred in the period and the timing of headcount reductions. B. Amortization of purchased intangible assets. Included in our GAAP presentation of gross margin and operating expenses is amortization of purchased intangible assets. US GAAP accounting requires that intangible assets are recorded at fair value and amortized over their useful lives. Consequently, the timing and size of our acquisitions will cause our operating results to vary from period to period, making a comparison to past performance difficult for investors. This accounting treatment may cause differences when comparing our results to companies that grow internally because the fair value assigned to the intangible assets acquired through acquisition may significantly exceed the equivalent expenses that a company may incur for similar efforts when performed internally. Furthermore, the useful life that we expense our intangible assets over may be substantially different from the time period that an internal growth company incurs and recognizes such expenses. We believe that by excluding the amortization of purchased intangible assets, which primarily represents 31 Table of Contents technology and/or customer relationships already developed, it provides an alternative way for investors to compare our operations pre-acquisition to those post-acquisitions and to those of our competitors that have pursued internal growth strategies. However, we note that companies that grow internally will incur costs to develop intangible assets that will be expensed in the period incurred, which may make a direct comparison more difficult. C. Stock-based compensation. Included in our GAAP presentation of cost of sales and operating expenses, stock-based compensation consists of expenses for employee stock options and awards and purchase rights under our employee stock purchase plan. We exclude stock-based compensation expense from our non-GAAP measures because some investors may view it as not reflective of our core operating performance as it is a non-cash expense. For the first quarter of fiscal 2016 and 2015, stock-based compensation was allocated as follows: First Quarter of (Dollars in millions) 2016 2015 Cost of sales $ 1.0 $ 0.9 Research and development 2.3 2.2 Sales and Marketing 2.0 2.3 General and administrative 8.4 7.1 $ 13.7 $ 12.5 D. Acquisition / divestiture items. Included in our GAAP presentation of operating expenses, acquisition costs consist of external and incremental costs resulting directly from merger and acquisition and strategic investment activities such as legal, due diligence and integration costs, as well as adjustments to the fair value of our earn-out liabilities. Included in our GAAP presentation of non-operating income (expense), net, acquisition / divestiture items includes unusual acquisition, investment, or divestiture gains/losses. Although we do numerous acquisitions, the costs that have been excluded from the non-GAAP measures are costs specific to particular acquisitions. These are one-time costs that vary significantly in amount and timing and are not indicative of our core operating performance. E. Executive transition costs. Included in our GAAP presentation of operating expenses are amounts paid to the Company's former CFO upon his departure under the terms of his executive severance agreement. We excluded these payments from our non-GAAP measures because they represent non-recurring expenses and are not indicative of our ongoing operating expenses. We further believe that excluding the executive transition costs from our non-GAAP results is useful to investors in that it allows for period-over-period comparability. F. Debt issuance cost write-off. Included in our GAAP non-operating income (expense), net is the write-off of debt issuance costs for terminated and/or modified credit facilities and costs associated with the issuance of new credit facilities and Senior Notes in fiscal 2014 that were not capitalized as debt issuance costs. We excluded the debt issuance cost write-off from our non-GAAP measures. We believe that investors benefit from excluding this item from our non-operating income to facilitate a more meaningful evaluation of our non-operating income trends. G. Non-GAAP items tax effected. This amount adjusts the provision for income taxes to reflect the effect of the non-GAAP items ( A ) - ( F ) on non-GAAP net income. We believe this information is useful to investors because it provides for consistent treatment of the excluded items in this non-GAAP presentation. H. Difference in GAAP and Non-GAAP tax rate. This amount represents the difference between the GAAP and Non-GAAP tax rates applied to the Non-GAAP operating income plus the Non-GAAP non-operating income (expense), net. I. GAAP and non-GAAP tax rate %. These percentages are defined as GAAP income tax provision as a percentage of GAAP income before taxes and non-GAAP income tax provision as a percentage of non-GAAP income before taxes. We believe that investors benefit from a presentation of non-GAAP tax rate percentage as a way of facilitating a comparison to non-GAAP tax rates in prior periods. Non-GAAP Operating Income Non-GAAP operating income decreased by $8.3 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 , as compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2015 . Non-GAAP operating income as a percentage of total revenue was 15.1% for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 , as compared to 16.6% for the corresponding period in fiscal 2015 . The Non-GAAP operating income and Non-GAAP operating income percentage for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 decreased primarily due to revenue declines in Field Solutions and Advanced Devices and the impact of product mix and growth investments in Mobile Solutions. 32 Table of Contents