ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") is designed to provide information that is supplemental to, and should be read together with, the Companys consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes contained in this quarterly report. Information in this Item 2 is intended to assist the reader in obtaining an understanding of the consolidated financial statements, the changes in certain key items in those financial statements from year to year, the primary factors that accounted for those changes, and any known trends or uncertainties that the Company is aware of that may have a material effect on the Companys future performance, as well as how certain accounting principles affect the consolidated financial statements. MD&A includes the following sections: Highlights and Executive Summary Results of Operationsan analysis of the Companys consolidated results of operations, for the two years presented in the consolidated financial statements Liquidity and Capital Resourcesan analysis of the effect of the Companys operating, financing and investing activities on the Companys liquidity and capital resources Off-Balance Sheet Arrangementsa discussion of such commitments and arrangements Critical Accounting Policies and Estimatesa discussion of accounting policies that require significant judgments and estimates New Accounting Pronouncementsa summary and discussion of the Companys plans for the adoption of relevant new accounting standards F-17 The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect the Companys plans, estimates and beliefs. Actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and elsewhere in this Prospectus particularly in "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," "Market Data" and "Risk Factors." Highlights and Executive Summary For the three months ended December 31, 2009, the Company reported revenues of $12,714 thousand, an increase of 29% from revenues of $9,856 thousand reported for the three months ended December 31, 2008. Net income was $2,946 thousand for the three months ended December 31, 2009 as compared to $2,944 thousand for the three months ended December 31, 2008. The Company continued to expand its video advertising membership base and generated a 49% increase in its trade services business segment as the Companys trade services business segment continued to recover from the 2008 global economic crisis. Net income for 2009 was also impacted by income taxes of $883 thousand. The three months ended December 31, 2009 represented the first reporting period since 2006 where the Companys subsidiaries operating in China did not have a tax free holiday in effect. Taxes are being calculated using a blended rate based on assumptions associated with certain operations of the Company being taxed within mainland China and other operations being taxed outside of mainland China. Results of Operations The following tables set forth key components of the Companys results of operations for the three months ended December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. All dollar amounts, except per share amounts referenced herein are in thousands. Three Months End December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 December 31, 2009 (000s) December 31, 2008 (000s) Increase (Decrease ) Percentage Increase (Decrease ) Revenues $ 12,714 $ 9,856 $ 2,858 29 % Cost of Sales 7,111 6,139 972 16 % Gross Profit 5,603 3,717 1,886 51 % Operating Expenses 1,774 771 1,003 130 % Income From Operations 3,829 2,946 883 30 % Income Taxes (883 ) (2 ) (881 ) 44,050 % Net Income 2,946 2,944 2 0 % Other Comprehensive Income (81 ) 19 (100 ) (5,000 )% Comprehensive Income $ 2,865 $ 2,963 (98 ) (3 )% Earnings per Common Share - Basic $ 0.47 $ 1.53 - Fully Diluted $ 0.47 $ 1.53 Weighted Average Common Share Outstanding - Basic 5,209,013 1,617,627 - Fully Diluted 5,231,013 1,617,627 Revenues increased by $2,858 thousand: Revenues totaled $12,714 thousand for the three months ended December 31, 2009 compared to $9,856 thousand for the three months ended December 31, 2008. The increase of $2,858 thousand is due primarily to 21% and 49% growth in the online membership services and trading services business segments for the three months ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2008, respectively. During the three months ended December 31, 2009, Subaye will focus on further developing its online video advertising business. Our third Asian motion picture investment, Dayoucun, generated $26 thousand in revenues for the period from release, December 22, 2009 through December 31, 2009. Dayoucun was released in theatres at the same time as certain other major motion pictures and faced very strong competition. We expect Dayoucun will produce more significant revenues in the next few months as the audiences in Asia begin to choose other motion pictures to view, in addition to the several extremely successful motion pictures currently playing in theatres. 3 Costs of Sales increased by $972 thousand: Costs of sales were $7,111 thousand for the three months ended December 31, 2009 compared to $6,139 thousand for the three months ended December 31, 2008. Costs of sales for the online membership services business segment decreased by 54% for the three months ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2008. The Companys www.subaye.com website was fully amortized as of September 30, 2009. As a result, costs of sales for the three months ended December 31, 2009 included amortization of the Companys secondary websites, SaaS software and related hardware and amortization of stock based compensation related to the two new merchant service provider contracts of $189 thousand. . Also, cost of sales of the trading services segment increased by $1,340 thousand due to increased sales and the entertainment media segment experienced a large increase in cost of sales, for advertising related to the release of a movie, in the amount of $1,297 thousand. Operating expenses increased by $1,003 thousand: For the three months ended December 31, 2009, we incurred operating expenses of $1,774 thousand as compared to $771 thousand for the three months ended December 31, 2008. Advertising expense was $427 thousand and $108 thousand for the three months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Stock-based compensation expense included in operating expenses totaled $830 thousand and $311 thousand for the three months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Certain significant stock based compensation was issued in the three months ended December 31, 2009 and in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2009. As a result, amortization of stock based compensation for the three months ended December 31, 2009 was significant. The full value of the stock issuances will be amortized over the term of the related contracts, many of which are for two or three years in length. Net income increased by $2 thousand: Subaye generated net income of $2,946 thousand for the three months ended December 31, 2009 as compared to $2,944 thousand for the three months ended December 31, 2008. The Company was not subject to income taxes of any significant amount for the three months ended December 31, 2008 as a result of the PRC tax holidays granted to the Company for the years ended September 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively. During the three months ended December 31, 2009, the Company generated 29.9% net income growth when excluding the effect of income taxes for the three months ended December 31, 2009. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2009, we had a cash balance of $2,668 thousand, consisting of money held in banks in mainland China and Hong Kong banks and cash in hand. We currently have no cash positions in the United States of America. We have been funding our operations through receipts from customers and equity-based financing such as the sale of our common stock, when needed. Management has invested substantial time evaluating and considering numerous proposals for possible investments, acquisitions or business combinations, either sought out by management or presented to management by investment professionals, the Companys advisers and others. We continue to consider acquisitions, business combinations, or start up proposals, which could be advantageous to our shareholders. No assurance can be given that any such project, acquisition or combination will be concluded, or that all these actions will be approved by our Board of Directors. Net cash provided by operations for the three months ended December 31, 2009 was $314 thousand. We generated $2,946 thousand in net income for the three months ended December 31, 2009. A total of $1,347 thousand in depreciation and amortization was recorded for the three months ended December 31, 2009. We recorded $1,040 thousand in amortization expense related to stock based compensation. Accounts receivable decreased by $2,183 thousand. The net additional investments in copyrights for the three months ended December 31, 2009 totaled $6,828 thousand. Net cash provided by investing activities was $0 for the three months ended December 31, 2009. Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended December 31, 2009 was $2,109 thousand. The Company raised $2,109 thousand from bank loans with one year terms during the three months ended December 31, 2009. Our future growth is dependent on our ability to execute on our business plans, raise capital for expansion, and to seek additional revenue sources. If we decide to pursue any acquisition opportunities or other expansion opportunities, we may need to raise additional capital, although there can be no assurances that such capital-raising activities would be successful. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off-balance sheet arrangements that will have a current or future effect on our financial condition and changes in financial condition in 2010 or 2009. 4 Protection of Intellectual Property The Company currently holds approximately $24,386 thousand in copyrights covering programming rights for movies, internet broadcasts, DVDs and television programming. We cannot guarantee that if a competitor or anyone else were to commence litigation against us, we would be able to adequately defend our position and retain ownership and value in the intellectual property. Capital Requirements In 2009 and 2008, the Company raised significant financing by issuing equity securities, namely the Companys common stock. If management determines that additional financing is necessary, we may not be able to continue to find adequate sources of financing in the future. Certain business segments in which we have committed to expanding operations, namely the Entertainment Media business segment, involve very significant capital requirements. Trends, Events, and Uncertainties The present demand for our products will be dependent on, among other things, market acceptance of the Companys concept, the quality of its products, and general economic conditions which are cyclical in nature. The Companys business operations may be adversely affected by increased competition and prolonged recessionary periods in China. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The discussion and analysis of our results of operations and liquidity and capital resources are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. In connection with the preparation of consolidated financial statements, the Company is required to make assumptions and estimates about future events, and apply judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses, and the related disclosures. The assumptions, estimates and judgments included within these estimates are based on historical experience, current trends and other factors we believe to be relevant at the time the consolidated financial statements were prepared. On a regular basis, the accounting policies, assumptions, estimates and judgments are reviewed to ensure that the consolidated financial statements are presented fairly and in accordance with GAAP. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, actual results could differ from the assumptions and estimates, and such differences could be material. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Significant estimates and assumptions are used for, but are not limited to: (1) asset impairments and (2) depreciable lives of assets. Future events and their effects cannot be predicted with certainty, and accordingly, accounting estimates require the exercise of judgment. The accounting estimates used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements will change as new events occur, as more experience is acquired, as additional information is obtained and as our operating environment changes. We evaluate and update these assumptions and estimates on an ongoing basis and may employ outside experts to assist with these evaluations. Actual results could differ from the estimates that have been used. Significant accounting policies are discussed in Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. We believe the following accounting policies are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results, as they require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments, and to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Impairment of Long Lived Assets The carrying amounts of long-lived assets are reviewed periodically in order to assess whether the recoverable amounts have declined below the carrying amounts. These assets are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their recorded carrying amounts may not be recoverable. When such a decline has occurred, the carrying amount is reduced to recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the greater of the net selling price and the value in use. It is difficult to precisely estimate selling price because quoted market prices for the Companys assets or cash-generating units are not readily available. In determining the value in use, expected cash flows generated by the asset or the cash-generating unit are discounted to their present value, which requires significant judgment relating to level of sales volume, selling price and amount of operating costs. The Company uses all readily available information in determining an amount that is a reasonable approximation of recoverable amount, including estimates based on reasonable and supportable assumptions and projections of sales volume, selling price and amount of operating costs. Estimates contemplated by the Company with regard to the recoverability of carrying amounts for its long lived assets may prove to be inaccurate, in which case property, plant and equipment may be understated or overstated. In the future, if property, plant and equipment are determined to be overvalued, the Company would be required to recognize such costs in operating expenses at the time of such determination. Likewise, if property, plant and equipment are determined to be undervalued, operating expenses may have been over-reported in previous periods and the Company would be required to recognize such additional operating income at the time of sale. 5 New Accounting Policies and Pronouncements In October 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued amended revenue recognition guidance for arrangements with multiple deliverables. The new guidance eliminates the residual method of revenue recognition and allows the use of managements best estimate of selling price for individual elements of an arrangement when vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE), vendor objective evidence (VOE) or third-party evidence (TPE) is unavailable. For the Company, this guidance is effective for all new or materially modified arrangements entered into on or after October 1, 2011 with earlier application permitted as of the beginning of a fiscal year. Full retrospective application of the new guidance is optional. The Company is currently assessing its implementation of this new guidance, but does not expect a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. In October 2009, the FASB issued guidance which amends the scope of existing software revenue recognition accounting. Tangible products containing software components and non-software components that function together to deliver the products essential functionality would be scoped out of the accounting guidance on software and accounted for based on other appropriate revenue recognition guidance. For the Company, this guidance is effective for all new or materially modified arrangements entered into on or after October 1, 2011 with earlier application permitted as of the beginning of a fiscal year. Full retrospective application of the new guidance is optional. This guidance must be adopted in the same period that the Company adopts the amended accounting for arrangements with multiple deliverables described in the preceding paragraph. The Company is currently assessing its implementation of this new guidance, but does not expect a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. On October 1, 2009, the Company adopted the revised FASB guidance regarding business combinations which was required to be applied to business combinations on a prospective basis. The revised guidance requires that the acquisition method of accounting be applied to a broader set of business combinations, amends the definition of a business combination, provides a definition of a business, requires an acquirer to recognize an acquired business at its fair value at the acquisition date and requires the assets and liabilities assumed in a business combination to be measured and recognized at their fair values as of the acquisition date (with limited exceptions). There was no impact upon adoption and the effects of this guidance will depend on the nature and significance of business combinations occurring after the effective date. In August 2009, the FASB issued guidance on the measurement of liabilities at fair value. The guidance provides clarification that in circumstances in which a quoted market price in an active market for an identical liability is not available, an entity is required to measure fair value using a valuation technique that uses the quoted price of an identical liability when traded as an asset or, if unavailable, quoted prices for similar liabilities or similar assets when traded as assets. If none of this information is available, an entity should use a valuation technique in accordance with existing fair valuation principles. The Company adopted this guidance in the quarter ended September 30, 2009 and there was no material impact on the consolidated financial statements. On July 1, 2009, the FASB issued the FASB Accounting Standards Codification (the Codification). The Codification became the single source of authoritative nongovernmental U.S. GAAP, superseding existing FASB, American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA), Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) and related literature. The Codification eliminates the previous US GAAP hierarchy and establishes one level of authoritative GAAP. All other literature is considered non-authoritative. The Codification was effective for interim and annual periods ending after September 15, 2009. The Company adopted the Codification for the year ending September 30, 2009. There was no impact to the consolidated financial results as this change is disclosure-only in nature. In June 2009, the FASB issued amendments to the accounting rules for variable interest entities (VIEs) and for transfers of financial assets. The new guidance for VIEs eliminates the quantitative approach previously required for determining the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity and requires ongoing qualitative reassessments of whether an enterprise is the primary beneficiary. In addition, qualifying special purpose entities (QSPEs) are no longer exempt from consolidation under the amended guidance. The amendments also limit the circumstances in which a financial asset, or a portion of a financial asset, should be derecognized when the transferor has not transferred the entire original financial asset to an entity that is not consolidated with the transferor in the financial statements being presented, and/or when the transferor has continuing involvement with the transferred financial asset. The Company will adopt these amendments for interim and annual reporting periods beginning on October 1, 2010. The Company does not expect the adoption of these amendments to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. 6 In May 2009, the FASB issued guidelines on subsequent event accounting which sets forth: 1) the period after the balance sheet date during which management of a reporting entity should evaluate events or transactions that may occur for potential recognition or disclosure in the financial statements; 2) the circumstances under which an entity should recognize events or transactions occurring after the balance sheet date in its financial statements; and 3) the disclosures that an entity should make about events or transactions that occurred after the balance sheet date. These guidelines were effective for interim and annual periods ending after June 15, 2009, and the Company adopted them in the quarter ended June 30, 2009. There was no impact on the consolidated financial statements. In April 2009, the FASB issued guidance on determining fair value when the volume and level of activity for an asset or liability has significantly decreased, and in identifying transactions that are not orderly. Based on the guidance, if an entity determines that the level of activity for an asset or liability has significantly decreased and that a transaction is not orderly, further analysis of transactions or quoted prices is needed, and a significant adjustment to the transaction or quoted prices may be necessary to estimate fair value. The guidance was effective on a prospective basis for interim and annual periods ending after June 15, 2009. The Company adopted this guidance in the quarter ended June 30, 2009, and there was no material impact on the consolidated financial statements. In April 2009, the FASB issued guidance on the recognition and presentation of other-than-temporary impairments on investments in debt securities. If an entitys management asserts that it does not have the intent to sell a debt security and it is more likely than not that it will not have to sell the security before recovery of its cost basis, then an entity may separate other-than-temporary impairments into two components: 1) the amount related to credit losses (recorded in earnings), and 2) all other amounts (recorded in other comprehensive income). This guidance was effective on a prospective basis for interim and annual periods ending after June 15, 2009. The Company adopted this guidance for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, and there was no material impact on the consolidated financial statements. In April 2009, the FASB issued additional requirements regarding interim disclosures about the fair value of financial instruments which were previously only disclosed on an annual basis. Entities are now required to disclose the fair value of financial instruments which are not recorded at fair value in the financial statements in both their interim and annual financial statements. The new requirements were effective for interim and annual periods ending after June 15, 2009 on a prospective basis. The Company adopted these requirements in the quarter ended June 30, 2009. There was no impact on the consolidated financial results as this relates only to additional disclosures. In April 2009, the FASB issued an amendment to the revised business combination guidance regarding the accounting for assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination that arise from contingencies. The requirements of this amended guidance carry forward without significant revision the guidance on contingencies which existed prior to January 1, 2009. Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination that arise from contingencies are recognized at fair value if fair value can be reasonably estimated. If fair value cannot be reasonably estimated, the asset or liability would generally be recognized in accordance with the Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 450 on contingencies. There was no impact upon adoption. In April 2008, the FASB issued new requirements regarding the determination of the useful lives of intangible assets. In developing assumptions about renewal or extension options used to determine the useful life of an intangible asset, an entity needs to consider its own historical experience adjusted for entity-specific factors. In the absence of that experience, an entity shall consider the assumptions that market participants would use about renewal or extension options. The new requirements apply to intangible assets acquired after October 1, 2009. The adoption of these new rules did not have a material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements. In December 2007, the FASB issued new guidance on noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements. This guidance requires that the noncontrolling interest in the equity of a subsidiary be accounted for and reported as equity, provides revised guidance on the treatment of net income and losses attributable to the noncontrolling interest and changes in ownership interests in a subsidiary and requires additional disclosures that identify and distinguish between the interests of the controlling and noncontrolling owners. Pursuant to the transition provisions, the Company adopted this new guidance on October 1, 2009 via retrospective application of the presentation and disclosure requirements. In March 2008, the FASB issued new disclosure requirements regarding derivative instruments and hedging activities. Entities must now provide enhanced disclosures on an interim and annual basis regarding how and why the entity uses derivatives; how derivatives and related hedged items are accounted for, and how derivatives and related hedged items affect the entitys financial position, financial results and cash flow. Pursuant to the transition provisions, the company adopted these new requirements on October 1, 2009. These new requirements do not impact the consolidated financial results as they are disclosure-only in nature. 7 The FASB guidance on fair value measurements and disclosures became effective January 1, 2008. However, in February 2008, the FASB delayed the effective date regarding fair value measurements and disclosures of nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, except those that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis (at least annually), to October 1, 2009. The adoption of these provisions related to nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities on October 1, 2009 did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. In June 2008, the FASB issued guidance in determining whether instruments granted in share-based payment transactions are participating securities. The guidance became effective on October 1, 2009 via retrospective application. According to the new guidance, unvested share-based payment awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents are participating securities and, therefore, are included in computing earnings per share (EPS) pursuant to the two-class method. The two-class method determines earnings per share for each class of common stock and participating securities according to dividends or dividend equivalents and their respective participation rights in undistributed earnings. The adoption of these provisions is not expected to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. 8