ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS The following discussion and analysis should be read together with the audited consolidated financial statements of Tucows Inc. (the Company, we, us or our) for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 and accompanying notes set forth elsewhere in this report. All financial information is presented in U.S. dollars. Some of the statements set forth in this section are forward-looking statements relating to our future results of operations. Our actual results may vary from the results anticipated by these statements. Please see Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements on page 1. OVERVIEW Our mission is to provide simple useful services that help people unlock the power of the Internet. We accomplish this by reducing the complexity our customers experience as they acquire, deliver or use the Internet or Internet services such as domain name registration, email, mobile telephony services and other Internet services. We are organized and managed based on two service offerings, Domain Services and Network Access Services, which are differentiated primarily by their services, the markets they serve and the regulatory environments in which they operate. Our principal place of business is located in Canada. We report our financial results as two operating segments, Domain Services, which derives revenue from three distinct service offerings Wholesale, Retail and Portfolio, and Network Access Services, which derives revenue from the sale of retail mobile phones and services to individuals and small businesses. Our chief operating decision maker regularly reviews our operating results for the Domain Services and Network Access Services segments , principally to make decisions about how we utilize our resources and to measure our consolidated operating performance. To assist us in forecasting growth and to help us monitor the effectiveness of our operational strategies, our chief operating decision maker regularly reviews revenue for each of our service offerings in order to gain more depth and understanding of the key business metrics driving our business. Accordingly, we report Domain Services and Network Access Services revenue separately. Domain Services Domain Services include wholesale and retail domain name registration services; value added services and portfolio services. We earn revenues primarily from the registration fees charged to resellers in connection with new, renewed and transferred domain name registrations; the sale of retail Internet domain name registration and email services to individuals and small businesses; and by making our portfolio of domain names available for sale or lease. Domain Services revenues are attributed to the country in which the contract originates, primarily Canada. Our primary distribution channel is a global network of more than 13,000 resellers in more than 100 countries who typically provide their customers, the end-users of the Internet, with a critical component for establishing and maintaining an online presence. Our primary focus is serving the needs of this network of resellers by providing superior services, easy-to-use interfaces, proactive and attentive customer service, reseller-oriented technology and agile design and development processes. We seek to provide superior customer service to our resellers by anticipating their business needs and technical requirements. This includes providing easy-to-use interfaces that enable resellers to quickly and easily integrate our services into their individual business processes, and offering brandable end-user interfaces that emphasize simplicity and visual appeal. We also provide second tier support to our resellers by email and phone in the event resellers experience issues or problems with our services. In addition, our Network Operating Center provides proactive support to our resellers by monitoring all services and network infrastructure to address deficiencies before customer services are impacted. We believe that the underlying platforms for our services are among the most mature, reliable and functional reseller-oriented provisioning and management platforms in our industry, and we continue to refine, evolve and improve these services for both resellers and end-users. Our business model is characterized primarily by non-refundable, up-front payments, which lead to recurring revenue and positive operating cash flow. Wholesale, primarily branded as OpenSRS, derives revenue from its Domain Service and from providing Value-Added Services. The OpenSRS Domain Service manages 13.5 million domain names under the Tucows ICANN registrar accreditation and for other registrars under their own accreditations. Value-Added Services include hosted email which provides email delivery and webmail access to millions of mailboxes, Internet security services, publishing tools and reseller billing services. All of these services are made available to end-users through a network of over 13,000 web hosts, Internet service providers (ISPs), and other resellers around the world. In addition, we also derive revenue from the bulk sale of domain names and advertising from the OpenSRS Domain Expiry Stream. 30 Retail, primarily our Hover website, derives revenues from the sale of domain name registration and email services to individuals and small businesses. Retail also includes our Personal Names Service based on over 40,000 surname domains that allows roughly two-thirds of Americans to purchase an email address based on their last name. Portfolio generates advertising revenue from our domain name portfolio and from our advertising-supported website, tucows.com. We also generate revenue by offering names in our domain portfolio for resale via our reseller network and other channels. In addition, we generate revenue from the payments for the sale of rights to gTLD strings under the New gTLD Program. Network Access Services Network Access Services derives revenue from the sale of retail mobile phones and services to individuals and small businesses through the Ting website. Ting revenues are generated in the United States. For the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, we reported revenue of $148 million, $130 million and $115 million, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, our OpenSRS domain service offering accounted for 59%, 67% and 77% of our total revenue, respectively. KEY BUSINESS METRICS We regularly review a number of business metrics, including the following key metrics to, assist us in evaluating our business, measure the performance of our business model, identify trends impacting our business, determine resource allocations, formulate financial projections and make strategic business decisions. The following table sets forth, the key business metrics which we believe are the primary indicators of our performance for the periods presented: Domain Services Year ended December 31, (1) 2014 2013 2012 (in 000s) Total new, renewed and transferred-in domain name registrations provisioned 9,110 9,076 9,213 Domain names under management Registered using the Tucows Registrar Accreditation 10,200 10,630 10,643 Registered using our Resellers Registrar Accreditations 3,329 3,564 3,363 Total domain names under management 13,529 14,194 14,006 (1) For a discussion of these period to period changes in the domains provisioned and domains under management and how they impacted our financial results see the Net revenue discussion below. Network Access Services Year ended December 31, (1) 2014 2013 2012 (in 000s) Ting subscribers under management 94,000 48,000 10,000 Ting devices under management 147,000 74,000 15,000 (1) For a discussion of these period to period changes in subscribers and devices under management and how they impacted our financial results, see the Net Revenue discussion below. OPPORTUNITIES, CHALLENGES AND RISKS The increased competition in the market for Internet services in recent years, which we expect will continue to intensify in the short and long term, poses a material risk for us. As new registrars are introduced, existing competitors expand service offerings and competitors offer price discounts to gain market share, we face pricing pressure, which can adversely impact our revenues and profitability. To address these risks, we have focused on leveraging the scalability of our infrastructure and our ability to provide proactive and attentive customer service to aggressively compete to attract new customers and to maintain existing customers. 31 Substantially all of our Domain Services revenue is derived from domain name registrations and related valueadded services from wholesale and retail customers using our provisioning and management platforms. The market for wholesale registrar services is both price sensitive and competitive and is evolving with the introduction of New gTLDs, particularly for large volume customers, such as large web hosting companies and owners of large portfolios of domain names. We have a relatively limited ability to increase the pricing of domain name registrations without negatively impacting our ability to maintain or grow our customer base. Growth in our Domain Services revenue is dependent upon our ability to continue to attract and retain customers by maintaining consistent domain name registration and valueadded service renewal rates and to grow our customer relationships through refining, evolving and improving our provisioning platforms and customer service for both resellers and end-users. In addition, we also generate revenue through pay-per-click advertising and the sale of names from our portfolio of domain names and through the OpenSRS Domain Expiry Stream. The revenue associated with names sales and advertising has recently experienced flat to declining trends due to the uncertainty around the implementation of ICANNs New gTLD Program, lower traffic and advertising yields in the marketplace, which we expect to continue. From time-to-time certain of our vendors provide us with Market Development Funds to expand or maintain the market position for their services. Any decision by these vendors to cancel or amend these programs for any reason may result in payments in future periods not being commensurate with what we have achieved during past periods. Sales of domain names from our domain portfolio have a negative impact on our advertising revenue as these names are no longer available for advertising purposes. In addition, the timing of larger domain names portfolio sales is unpredictable and may lead to significant quarterly and annual fluctuations in our Portfolio revenue. The communications industry continues to compete on the basis of network reach and performance, types of services and devices offered, and price. As a Mobile Virtual Network Operator MVNO our Ting service is reliant on our Mobile Network Operators "MNOs" providing competitive networks. Our MNOs each continue to invest in network expansion and modernization to improve their competitive positions. Deployment of new and sophisticated technology on a very large scale entails risks. Should they fail to implement, maintain and expand their network capacity and coverage, adapt to future changes in technologies and continued access to and deployment of adequate spectrum successfully, our ability to provide wireless services to our subscribers, to retain and attract subscribers and to maintain and grow our subscriber revenues could be adversely affected, which would negatively impact our operating margins. Ting has also enjoyed rapid growth in its first three years of operation. During this growth phase we have been able to continue to grow gross customer additions and maintain a consistent churn rate, which has allowed us to maintain net customer additions despite the impact of churn on a fast growing customer base. We expect price competition to grow more intense in the industry which could result in increased customer churn or reductions of customer acquisition rates either of which could result in slower growth rates or in certain cases, our ability to maintain growth. Our revenue is primarily realized in U.S. dollars and a major portion of our operating expenses are paid in Canadian dollars. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar may have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results from operations. In particular, we may be adversely affected by a significant weakening of the U.S. dollar against the Canadian dollar on a quarterly and an annual basis. Our policy with respect to foreign currency exposure is to manage our financial exposure to certain foreign exchange fluctuations with the objective of neutralizing some or all of the impact of foreign currency exchange movements by entering into foreign exchange forward contracts to mitigate the exchange risk on a portion of our Canadian dollar exposure. We may not always enter into such forward contracts and such contracts may not always be available and economical for us. Additionally, the forward rates established by the contracts may be less advantageous than the market rate upon settlement. Net Revenues Domain Services Wholesale - OpenSRS Domain Service Historically, our OpenSRS Domain Service has constituted the largest portion of our business and encompasses all of our services as an accredited registrar related to the registration, renewal, transfer and management of domain names. In addition, this service fuels other revenue categories as it often is the initial service for which a reseller will engage us, enabling us to follow on with other services and allowing us to add to our portfolio by purchasing names registered through us upon their expiration. 32 We receive revenues for each domain registration or other Internet service processed through our system by Service Providers. Our domain service revenue is principally comprised of registration fees charged to resellers in connection with new, renewed and transferred domain name registrations. The registration fee provides our resellers with access to our provisioning and management tools to enable them to register and administer domain names and access to additional services like WHOIS privacy and DNS services, enhanced domain name suggestion tools and access to our premium domain names. We earn fees in connection with each new, renewed and transferred-in registration and from providing provisioning services to resellers and registrars on a monthly basis. Domain registrations are generally purchased for terms of one to ten years, with a majority having a one-year term. Payments for the full term of all services, or billed revenue, are received at the time of activation of service and where appropriate are recorded as deferred revenue and are recognized as earned ratably over the term of provision of service. This accounting treatment reasonably approximates a recognition pattern that corresponds with the provision of the services during the quarters and the year. Wholesale OpenSRS Value-Added Services We derive revenue from our hosted email service through our global distribution network. Our hosted email service is offered on a per account, per month basis, and provides resellers with a reliable, scalable white label hosted email solution that can be customized to their branding and business model requirements. The hosted email service also includes spam and virus filtering on all accounts. End-users can access the hosted email service via a full-featured, multi-language web interface or through traditional desktop email clients, such as Microsoft Outlook or Apple Mail, using IMAP or POP/SMTP. We also derive revenue from other Value-Added Services primarily from provisioning SSL certificates. In addition, we derive revenue from the bulk sale of domain names and advertising from the OpenSRS Domain Expiry Stream. In addition, we provide billing, provisioning and customer care software solutions to ISPs through our Platypus billing software. Retail Hover We derive revenues from Hover's sale of retail Internet domain name registration and email services to individuals and small businesses. Portfolio We derive revenue from our portfolio of domain names by displaying advertising on the domains and by making them available for sale or lease. When a user types one of these domain names into a web browser, they are presented with dynamically generated links that are pay-per-click advertising. Every time a user clicks on one of these links, it generates revenue for us through our partnership with third-parties who provide syndicated pay-per-click advertising (parked page vendors). Our parked page vendor relationships may not continue to generate levels of revenue commensurate with what we have achieved during past periods. Our ability to generate online advertising revenue from parked page vendors depends on their advertising networks' assessment of the quality and performance characteristics of Internet traffic resulting from online advertisements rendered on their websites. We have no control over any of these quality assessments. Parked page vendors may from time to time change their existing, or establish new, methodologies and metrics for valuing the quality of Internet traffic and delivering pay-per-click advertisements. Any changes in these methodologies, metrics and advertising technology platforms could decrease the amount of revenue that we generate from online advertisements. In addition, parked page vendors may at any time change or suspend the nature of the service that they provide to online advertisers. These types of changes or suspensions would adversely impact our ability to generate revenue from pay-per-click advertising. Portfolio names are sold through our premium domain name service, auctions or in negotiated sales. The size of our domain name portfolio varies over time, as we acquire and sell domains on a regular basis to maximize the overall value and revenue generation potential of our portfolio. In evaluating names for sale, we consider the potential foregone revenue from pay-per-click advertising, as well as other factors. The name will be offered for sale if, based on our evaluation, the name is deemed non-essential to our business and management believes that deriving proceeds from the sale is strategically more beneficial to the Company. In addition, we generate revenue from the payments for the sale of rights to gTLD strings under ICANNs New gTLD Program. Portfolio names that have been acquired from third-parties or through acquisition are included as intangible assets with indefinite lives on our consolidated balance sheet. We also generate advertising and other revenue through our ad-supported content site, tucows.com. This site primarily derives revenue from banner and text advertising. In addition, their revenue is derived from software developers who rely on us as a primary source of distribution. Software developers use our Author Resource Center to submit their products for inclusion on our site and to purchase promotional placements of their software. 33 Network Access Services Ting We derive revenue from Ting's sale of retail mobile phones and services to individuals and small businesses. Ting provides customers with access to our provisioning and management tools to enable them, via the ting.com website, to purchase retail mobile phones and services . Revenues are generated in the United States and are provided on a monthly basis with no fixed contract term. Critical Accounting Policies The following is a discussion of our critical accounting policies and methods. Critical accounting policies are defined as those that are both important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and are reflective of significant judgments and uncertainties made by management that may result in materially different results under different assumptions and conditions. Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2014 (Fiscal 2014), includes further information on the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate the application of these estimates, including those related to the recoverability of investments, useful lives and valuation of intangible assets, valuation of goodwill, fair value measurement of assets and liabilities, product development costs, revenue recognition and deferred revenue and accounting for income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual amounts could differ significantly from these estimates. Revenue recognition policy We earn revenues from the following services: Domain Services - Wholesale (OpenSRS Domain Service and OpenSRS Value-Added Services); Domain Services - Retail (Hover); Domain Services - Portfolio (Domain Portfolio monetization and sales) and Network Access Services Ting (sale of retail mobile phones and services). With respect to the sale of domain registrations and other value-added services, we earn registration fees in connection with each new, renewed and transferred-in registration and from providing provisioning services to resellers and registrars on a monthly basis. We also enter into revenue arrangements in which a reseller may purchase a combination of services (multiple element arrangements). When a standalone selling price exists for each deliverable, we allocate revenue to each deliverable based on the relative selling price of each of the deliverables. The standalone selling price is established for each deliverable by the price charged when that deliverable is sold separately by the Company which is vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE). For arrangements where the Company does not sell the deliverable separately, the selling price is determined based on third party evidence (TPE), which is the price at which a competitor or third party sells the same or similar and largely interchangeable deliverable on a standalone basis. In instances where VSOE and TPE do not exist, the Company uses an estimated selling price for the deliverable, which is the price at which a company would transact if the deliverable were sold by the vendor regularly on a standalone basis. Payments for the full term of all services are received at the time of activation of service and where appropriate are recorded as deferred revenue and are recognized as earned ratably over the term of provision of service. This accounting treatment reasonably approximates a recognition pattern that corresponds with the provision of the services during the quarters and the year. Revenues derived from provisioning mobile phone service to individuals and small businesses through the Ting website, are recognized once services have been provided. This is based upon either usage (e.g., minutes of traffic/bytes of data processed), period of time (e.g., monthly service fees), various regulatory fees imposed on us by governmental authorities or other established fee schedules. Revenues for wireless services are billed based on the actual amount of monthly services utilized by each customer during their billing cycle on a postpaid basis. Our billing cycle for each customer is computed based on their activation date and not on our reporting period. As a result, we are required to estimate the amount of revenues earned but not billed from the end of each billing cycle to the end of each reporting period. These estimates are based on an assessment of the actual services rendered to each customer since the last billing period against our rate plans existing at that time. Adjustments affecting revenue may occur in periods subsequent to the billing period when the services were provided and are recognized as revenue during the current billing cycle. In addition, revenues associated with the sale of wireless devices and accessories to subscribers is recognized when title and risk of loss is transferred to the subscriber and shipment has occurred. Incentive marketing credits given to customers are recorded as a reduction of revenue. 34 Revenue from domain portfolio monetization and sales consists primarily of amounts earned for the transfer of rights to domain names and domain related rights that are currently under the Company's control. Collectability of revenues generated is subject to a high level of uncertainty; accordingly revenues are recognized only when payment is received, except where a fixed contract has been negotiated, in which case revenues are recognized once all the terms of the contract have been satisfied. We also generate advertising and other revenue through tucows.com as well as advertising revenue from our OpenSRS expired domain names and our domain name portfolio. Advertising and other revenue is recognized ratably over the period in which it is presented. To the extent that the minimum number of post-presentation impressions we guarantee to customers is not met, we defer recognition of the corresponding revenues until the guaranteed impressions are achieved. Revenue is also generated from vendors who are seeking to expand or maintain their services market position and is recognized once all the conditions have been met. Changes to contractual relationships in the future could impact the amounts and timing of revenue recognition. In those cases where payment is not received at the time of sale, additional conditions for recognition of revenue apply. The conditions are (i) that the collection of sales proceeds is reasonably assured and (ii) that we have no further performance obligations. We record expected refunds, rebates and credit card charge-backs as a reduction of revenues at the time of the sale based on historical experiences and current expectations. Should these expectations not be met, adjustments will be required in future periods. We record provisions for possible uncollectible accounts receivable and contingent liabilities which may arise in the normal course of business. The allowance for doubtful accounts is calculated by taking into account factors such as our historical collection and write-off experience, the number of days the customer is past due and the status of the customer's account with respect to whether or not the customer is continuing to receive service. The contingent liability estimates are based on management's historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the reported amounts of liabilities and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Historically, credit losses have been within our expectations and the reserves we have established have been appropriate. However, we have, on occasion, experienced issues which have led to accounts receivable not being fully collected. Should these issues occur more frequently, additional provisions may be required. Valuation of goodwill, intangible assets and long-lived assets The excess of the purchase price over the fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities from our acquisitions is recorded as goodwill. At December 31, 2014, we had $18.9 million (2013 - $18.9 million) in goodwill related to our acquisitions and $14.2 million (2013 - $15.4 million) in intangible assets comprised of indefinite life intangibles of $13.5 million (2013 - $14.1 million) and finite life intangible assets of $0.7 million (2013 - $1.3 million).We report our financial results as two operating segments, Domain Services with three distinct service offerings, being wholesale and retail domain name registration services, value added services and portfolio, and Network Access Services which derives revenue from the sale of retail mobile phones and telephony services to individuals and small businesses. The goodwill and intangible assets are all related to our Domain Services segment. The goodwill recorded in relation to these acquisitions is not deductible for tax purposes. We account for goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets in accordance with FASBs authoritative guidance, which requires that goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets are not amortized, but are subject to an annual impairment test. We complete our impairment test on an annual basis, during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year, or more frequently, if changes in facts and circumstances indicate that impairment indicators are present. Our indefinite life intangible assets consist of surname domain names and direct navigation domain names. In order to maintain our rights to these domain names, we pay annual renewal fees to the applicable domain name registries. During the year we decided not to renew certain under-performing domain names and an impairment charge of $0.6 million was recorded in the first two quarters of the fiscal year. With regard to long-lived assets comprised of property and equipment and finite life intangible assets, we continually evaluate whether events or circumstances have occurred that indicate the remaining estimated useful lives of our definite-life intangible assets may warrant revision or whether the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable and exceed their fair value. We use an estimate of the related undiscounted cash flows over the remaining life of the asset in measuring whether the asset is recoverable. There was no impairment recorded on definite-life intangible assets and property and equipment during 2014 and 2013. We performed a qualitative assessment to determine whether there were events or circumstances which would lead to a determination, that it is more likely than not, that goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets have been impaired. In performing the qualitative testing, we made an evaluation of the impact of various factors to the expected future cash flows attributable to our Domain Services operating segment and to the assumed discount rate which would be used to present value those cash flows. Consideration was given to factors such as macro-economic , industry and market conditions including the capital markets and the competitive environment amongst others . There were no indications of impairment under the qualitative approach. The analysis was consistent with the approach we utilized in our analysis performed in prior years. 35 Any changes to our key assumptions about our businesses and our prospects, or changes in market conditions, could cause the fair value of our Domain Services operating segment to fall below its carrying value, resulting in a potential impairment charge. In addition, changes in our organizational structure or how our management allocates resources and assesses performance, could result in a change in our operating segments, requiring a reallocation and updated impairment analysis of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets. A goodwill or intangible asset impairment charge could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements because of the significance of goodwill and intangible assets to our consolidated balance sheet. There was no impairment of goodwill or intangible assets as a result of the annual impairment tests completed during the fourth quarters of 2014 and 2013. Accounting for income taxes We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our uncertain tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. We apply a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if on the weight of available evidence it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon settlement. Although we believe we have adequately reserved for our uncertain tax positions, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate based on new information that may become available. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. As we account for income taxes under the asset and liability method, we recognize deferred tax assets or liabilities for the anticipated future tax effects of temporary differences between the financial statement basis and the tax basis of our assets and liabilities. We record a valuation allowance to reduce the net deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that the benefit from the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, historical and future levels of income, expectations and risks associated with estimates of future taxable income and ongoing tax planning strategies are considered. In the event that it is determined that the deferred tax assets to be realized in the future would be in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance would be recorded. This adjustment would increase income in the period that such determination was made. Likewise, should it be determined that all or part of a recorded net deferred tax asset would not be realized in the future, an adjustment to increase the deferred tax asset valuation allowance would be charged to income in the period that such determination would be made. On a periodic basis, we evaluate the probability that our deferred tax asset balance will be recovered to assess its realizability. To the extent we believe it is more likely than not that some portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized, we will increase the valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets. Realization of our deferred tax assets is dependent primarily upon future taxable income. Our judgments regarding future profitability may change due to future market conditions, changes in U.S. or international tax laws and other factors. These changes, if any, may require possible material adjustments to these deferred tax assets, impacting net income or net loss in the period when such determinations are made. Recently Issued Accounting Standards See Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for information regarding recently issued accounting standards. 36 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2014 AS COMPARED TO THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2013 NET REVENUES The following table presents our net revenues, by revenue source: Year ended December 31, 2014 2013 Domain Services: Wholesale Domain Services $ 86,640,949 $ 87,294,173 Value Added Services 9,654,734 10,271,219 Total Wholesale 96,295,683 97,565,392 Retail 10,417,746 8,360,035 Portfolio 5,066,673 7,479,240 Total Domain Services 111,780,102 113,404,667 Network Access Services: Ting 35,887,005 16,530,237 Total Network Access Services 35,887,005 16,530,237 $ 147,667,107 $ 129,934,904 Increase over prior period $ 17,732,203 Increase - percentage 14 % The following table presents our revenues, by revenue source, as a percentage of total revenues: Year ended December 31, 2014 2013 Domain Services: Wholesale Domain Services 59 % 67 % Value Added Services 7 % 8 % Total Wholesale 66 % 75 % Retail 7 % 6 % Portfolio 3 % 6 % Total Domain Services 76 % 87 % Network Access Services: Ting 24 % 13 % Total Network Access Services 24 % 13 % 100 % 100 % Total net revenues for Fiscal 2014 increased by $17.7 million, or 14%, to $147.7 million from $129.9 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 (Fiscal 2013). Deferred revenue from domain name registrations and other Internet services at December 31, 2014 increased to $71.1 million from $70.0 million at December 31, 2013. No customer accounted for more than 10% of revenue during Fiscal 2014 and, at December 31, 2014, no customer accounted for more than 10% of accounts receivable. Significant management judgment is required at the time of recording of revenue to assess whether the collection of the resulting receivables is reasonably assured. On an ongoing basis, we assess the ability of our customers to make required payments. Based on this assessment, we expect the carrying amount of our outstanding receivables, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, to be fully collected. Domain Services Wholesale During Fiscal 2014, domain services revenue decreased by $0.7 million to $86.6 million and the number of transactions from all new, renewed and transferred-in domain name registrations that we processed remained relatively flat at 9.1 million when compared to Fiscal 2013. Domain services revenue and transaction volumes continue to be impacted by the ongoing migration of a handful of large, low margin customers. These customers have been moving their domain management and domain transaction processing to their own accreditations and in-house systems. We anticipate that the number of new, renewed and transferred-in domain name registrations will continue to be impacted by decisions large volume customers make with regard to acquiring their own accreditations and the impact that the significant expansion of the number of New gTLDs implementation of ICANNs New gTLD Program will have on the market. While we anticipate that the number of new, renewed and transferred-in domain name registrations will continue to incrementally increase in the long term, the volatility of these factors could affect the growth of domain names that we manage. As of December 31, 2014, total domains that we manage under our own accreditation decreased to 10.2 million when compared to 10.6 million at December 31, 2013. This decrease in domains under management primarily resulted from the same factors impacting domain transactions mentioned above. Also, as of December 31, 2014, total domains that we manage on behalf of other accredited registrars who use our technical systems to process domain registrations with their own accreditation , decreased to 3.3 million when compared to 3.6 million at the end of December 31, 2013, primarily the result of a single customer that transitioned their domain management platform to an in-house system earlier this year. 37 Value-Added Services decreased by $0.6 million to $9.7 million when compared to Fiscal 2013. This decrease was largely due to the $0.7 million decrease in revenue from pay-per-click advertising and the sale of names through the OpenSRS Domain Expiry Stream. The revenue associated with names sales and advertising has recently experienced flat to declining trends due to the uncertainty around the implementation of ICANNs New gTLD Program, lower traffic and advertising yields in the marketplace, which we expect to continue. Retail Net revenues from Retail for Fiscal 2014, as compared to Fiscal 2013, increased by $2.1 million to $10.4 million. This increase was largely due to the success that our retail marketing initiatives and improved websites are having on our ability to attract new customers and retain existing ones for Hover. Portfolio Net revenues from Portfolio for Fiscal 2014, as compared to Fiscal 2013, decreased by $2.4 million to $5.1 million from $7.5 million. This decrease was primarily related to gains we recognized from our withdrawal of our applications for .media and .marketing during the three months ended September 30, 2013 compared to the gains we recognized from participating in a confidential private auction for .group in July 2014. The market for monetization of domain names is rapidly evolving and is being impacted by uncertainty around the implementation of ICANNs New gTLD Program. In addition, Portfolio revenues were impacted by lower sales of big ticket domains as well as the impact the uncertainty around the implementation of ICANNs new gTLD Program is having on our pay-per-click advertising traffic. Network Access Services Ting Net revenues from Ting mobile phone services and equipment for Fiscal 2014, as compared to Fiscal 2013, increased by $19.4 million or 117% to $35.9 million. This increase primarily reflects the impact the larger subscriber base is having on service revenues. As of December 31, 2014, Ting had 94,000 subscribers and 147,000 mobile devices under its management compared to 48,000 subscribers and 74,000 devices under management as of December 31, 2013. COST OF REVENUES Wholesale OpenSRS Domain Service Cost of revenues for domain registrations represents the amortization of registry fees on a basis consistent with the recognition of revenues from our customers, namely ratably over the term of provision of the service. Registry fees, the primary component of cost of revenues, are paid in full when the domain is registered, and are initially recorded as prepaid domain registry fees. This accounting treatment reasonably approximates a recognition pattern that corresponds with the provision of the services during the period. Market development funds that do not meet the criteria for revenue recognition under ASC 605-50 Customer Payments and Incentives, are reflected as cost of goods sold and are recognized as earned. Value-Added Services Costs of revenues for Value-Added Services include licensing and royalty costs related to the provisioning of certain components of related to hosted email, fees paid to third-party service providers, primarily for trust certificates and for printing services in connection with Platypus. Fees payable for trust certificates are amortized on a basis consistent with the provision of service, generally one year, while email hosting fees and monthly printing fees are included in cost of revenues in the month they are incurred. 38 Retail Costs of revenues for our provision and management of Internet services through our retail site, Hover.com, include the amortization of registry fees on a basis consistent with the recognition of revenues from our customers, namely ratably over the term of provision of the service. Registry fees, the primary component of cost of revenues, are paid in full when the domain is registered, and are recorded as prepaid domain registry fees. Portfolio Costs of revenues for our Portfolio represent the amortization of registry fees for domains added to our portfolio over the renewal period, which is generally one year, the value attributed under intangible assets to any domain name sold and any impairment charges that may arise from our assessment of our domain name intangible assets. As the total names in our portfolio continue to grow, this cost will become a more significant component of our cost of revenues. Payments for domain registrations are payable for the full term of service at the time of activation of service and are recorded as prepaid domain registry fees and are expensed ratably over the renewal term. Costs of revenues for our larger ad-supported content site include the fees paid to third-party service providers, primarily for digital certificates sold through our content sites and content license fees. Network Access Services Ting The costs of revenue for Ting's mobile phone service include hardware (the cost of devices sold to our customers) and network services (our customers' voice, messaging and data usage) provided by our Mobile Network Operator. Network expenses Network expenses include personnel and related expenses, depreciation and amortization, communication costs, equipment maintenance, stock-based compensation and employee and related costs directly associated with the management and maintenance of our network. Communication costs include bandwidth, co-location and provisioning costs we incur to support the supply of all our services. The following table presents our cost of revenues, by revenue source: Year ended December 31, 2014 2013 Domain Services: Wholesale Domain Services $ 72,353,061 $ 73,468,824 Value Added Services 2,211,085 2,115,167 Total Wholesale 74,564,146 75,583,991 Retail 4,539,439 3,521,023 Portfolio 886,637 1,234,214 Total Domain Services 79,990,222 80,339,228 Network Access Services: Ting 21,870,780 12,621,093 Total Network Access Services 21,870,780 12,621,093 Network Expenses: Network, other costs 4,554,635 4,835,939 Network, depreciation and amortization costs 699,670 711,763 5,254,305 5,547,702 $ 107,115,307 $ 98,508,023 Increase over prior period $ 8,607,284 Increase - percentage 9 % 39 The following table presents our cost of revenues, as a percentage of total cost of revenues for the periods presented: Year ended December 31, 2014 2013 Domain Services: Wholesale Domain Services 68 % 74 % Value Added Services 2 % 2 % Total Wholesale 70 % 76 % Retail 4 % 4 % Portfolio 1 % 1 % Total Domain Services 75 % 81 % Network Access Services: Ting 20 % 13 % Total Network Access Services 20 % 13 % Network Expenses: Network, other costs 4 % 5 % Network, depreciation and amortization costs 1 % 1 % 5 % 6 % 100 % 100 % Total cost of revenues for Fiscal 2014 increased by $8.6 million, or 9%, to $107.1 million from $98.5 million in Fiscal 2013. This increase was primarily the result of increased network access service expenses due to the impact Tings larger subscriber base is having on service costs. Prepaid domain registration and other Internet services fees as of December 31, 2014 increased by $0.4 million, or 1%, to $56.4 million from $56.0 million at December 31, 2013. Domain Services Wholesale Costs for Wholesale for Fiscal 2014 decreased by $1.0 million to $74.6 million, when compared to Fiscal 2013. This reduction in costs is primarily the result of an ongoing shift in product mix to higher margin domain services and with growth in the core wholesale domain services business being off-set with a handful of large clients migrating their business to their own accreditations. Retail Costs for Retail for Fiscal 2014, increased by $1.0 million, to $4.5 million, when compared to Fiscal 2013. This increase resulted primarily from the increased cost of additional volume in Hover services. Portfolio Costs for Portfolio decreased by $0.3 million for Fiscal 2014, to $0.9 million when compared to Fiscal 2013, primarily the result of costs associated with our New gTLD applications incurred during Fiscal 2013. Network Access Services Ting Costs for Ting for Fiscal 2014 increased by $9.3 million, to $21.9 million when compared to Fiscal 2013. This increase primarily reflects the impact our larger subscriber base is having on service costs. Network Expenses Network expenses decreased by $0.3 million for Fiscal 2014, to $5.3 million as compared to Fiscal 2013. These results reflect our improved efficiency in operating and managing our co-location facilities, which has also enabled us to decrease our capital spend on network equipment. 40 SALES AND MARKETING Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs. These costs include commissions and related expenses of our sales, product management, public relations, call center, support and marketing personnel. Other sales and marketing expenses include customer acquisition costs, advertising and other promotional costs. Year ended December 31, 2014 2013 Sales and marketing $ 15,394,065 $ 12,141,036 Increase over prior period $ 3,253,029 Increase - percentage 27 % Percentage of net revenues 10 % 9 % Sales and marketing expenses for Fiscal 2014 increased by $3.3 million, or 27%, to $15.4 million as compared to Fiscal 2013. This increase primarily related to workforce and marketing expenses incurred in acquiring and servicing Ting subscribers. Excluding movements in exchange rates, we expect sales and marketing expenses for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2015 (Fiscal 2015) to increase in absolute dollars, as we adjust our marketing programs and sales and customer support personnel costs to support our Ting marketing and customer servicing needs . TECHNICAL OPERATIONS AND DEVELOPMENT Technical operations and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs and related expenses required to support the development of new or enhanced service offerings and the maintenance and upgrading of existing infrastructure. This includes expenses incurred in the research, design and development of technology that we use to register domain names, email, retail, domain portfolio and other Internet services, as well as to distribute our digital content services. Editorial costs relating to the rating and review of the software content libraries are included in the costs of product development. All technical operations and development costs are expensed as incurred. Year ended December 31, 2014 2013 Technical operations and development $ 4,305,715 $ 4,158,603 Increase over prior period $ 147,112 Increase - percentage 4 % Percentage of net revenues 3 % 3 % Technical operations and development expenses for Fiscal 2014 increased by $0.1 million, or 4%, to $4.3 million when compared to Fiscal 2013. This increase resulted primarily by our recognizing a 2010 Ontario Interactive Digital Media Tax Credit of $0.4 million, primarily related to eligible personnel costs, during the quarter ended June 30, 2013. This increase was partially offset by a decrease which resulted primarily from improved productivity in workforce related costs. We expect technical operations and development expenses for Fiscal 2015, in absolute dollars, to increase slightly when compared to Fiscal 2014. GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE General and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and related costs for managerial and administrative personnel, fees for professional services, public listing expenses, rent, foreign exchange and other general corporate expenses. Year ended December 31, 2014 2013 General and administrative $ 8,505,920 $ 7,204,895 Increase over prior period $ 1,301,025 Increase - percentage 18 % Percentage of net revenues 6 % 6 % General and administrative expenses for Fiscal 2014 increased by $1.3 million, or 18%, to $8.5 million as compared to Fiscal 2013. This increase was primarily the result of $1.0 million in increased credit card processing fees and bad debts, largely related to the growth of Ting and $0.6 million in increased professional fees as compared to Fiscal 2013. The professional fee increase included additional SOX compliance work that we have undertaken for the first time as well as pre-acquisition due diligence and other costs of $0.2 million that related to a potential acquisition that was abandoned once we determined that its completion was not probable. These increases were partly offset by o ur recognizing a realized foreign exchange gain of $1.0 million when compared to Fiscal 2013, partially offset by an unrealized loss of $0.6 million pertaining to the translation of our non U.S. dollar net assets to our functional currency of U.S. dollars. 41 We expect general and administrative expenses for Fiscal 2015, in absolute dollars, to increase when compared to Fiscal 2014 largely to support the growth of our business . DEPRECIATION OF PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Year ended December 31, 2014 2013 Depreciation of property and equipment $ 226,432 $ 215,447 Increase over prior period $ 10,985 Increase - percentage 5 % Percentage of net revenues 0 % 0 % Depreciation costs for Fiscal 2014 remained essentially flat at $0.2 million. AMORTIZATION OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS Year ended December 31, 2014 2013 Amortization of intangible assets $ 596,620 $ 876,120 Decrease over prior period $ (279,500 ) Decrease - percentage (32 ) % Percentage of net revenues 0 % 1 % Amortization of intangible assets consists of amounts arising in connection with the acquisition of Innerwise, Inc. in July 2007 and the acquisition of EPAG in August 2011. The brand and customer relationships acquired in connection with the acquisitions of Innerwise Inc. and EPAG are being amortized on a straight-line basis over seven years. Technology acquired in connection with the acquisition of EPAG is amortized on a straight-line basis over two years. IMPAIRMENT OF INDEFINITE LIFE INTANGIBLE ASSETS Year ended December 31, 2014 2013 Impairment of indefinite life intangible assets $ 577,145 $ - Increase over prior period $ 577,145 As part of our normal renewal process during Fiscal 2014, we assessed that certain domain names acquired in the June 2006 acquisition of Mailbank.com Inc. should not be renewed and were allowed to expire. Accordingly, these domain names, with a book value of $0.6 million, have been written off and recorded as impairment of indefinite life intangible assets during Fiscal 2014. No impairment was recorded on indefinite-life intangible assets during Fiscal 2013. LOSS (GAIN) ON CURRENCY FORWARD CONTRACTS Although our functional currency is the U.S. dollar, a major portion of our fixed expenses are incurred in Canadian dollars. Our goal with regard to foreign currency exposure is, to the extent possible; to achieve operational cost certainty, manage financial exposure to certain foreign exchange fluctuations and to neutralize some of the impact of foreign currency exchange movements. Accordingly, we enter into foreign exchange contracts to mitigate the exchange rate risk on portions of our Canadian dollar exposure. Year ended December 31, 2014 2013 Loss (gain) on currency forward contracts $ 1,310,848 $ 676,120 Increase over prior period $ 634,728 Increase - percentage 94 % Percentage of net revenues 1 % 1 % We have entered into certain forward exchange contracts that do not comply with the requirements of hedge accounting to meet a portion of our future Canadian dollar requirements through December 2015. The impact of the fair value adjustment on outstanding contracts for Fiscal 2014 was a net loss of $0.1 million, compared to $0.5 million for Fiscal 2013. The impact of the fair value adjustment on outstanding contracts was increased by a realized loss upon settlement of currency forward contracts of $1.3 million for Fiscal 2014 compared to $0.2 million for Fiscal 2013. 42 At December 31, 2014, our balance sheet reflects a derivative instrument liability of $1.1 million as a result of our existing foreign exchange contracts. Until their respective maturity dates, these contracts will fluctuate in value in line with movements in the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar. OTHER INCOME AND EXPENSES Year ended December 31, 2014 2013 Other income (expense), net $ (206,730 ) $ (354,857 ) Increase over prior period $ 148,127 Increase - percentage (42 ) % Percentage of net revenues (0 ) % (0 ) % Other expenses for Fiscal 2014 which primarily consist of interest we incur in connection with our credit facility with the Bank of Montreal, decreased by $0.2 million, to $0.2 million, as compared with Fiscal 2013. INCOME TAXES The following table presents our provision for income taxes for the periods presented: Year ended December 31, 2014 2013 Provision for income taxes $ 3,054,229 $ 1,619,339 Increase in provision over prior period $ 1,434,890 Increase - percentage 89 % Percentage of net revenues 2 % 1 % We operate in various tax jurisdictions, and accordingly, our income is subject to varying rates of tax. Losses incurred in one jurisdiction cannot be used to offset income taxes payable in another jurisdiction. Our ability to use income tax loss carryforwards and future income tax deductions is dependent upon our operations in the tax jurisdictions in which such losses or deductions arise. Income taxes are computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement carrying values and tax base of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to affect taxable income. Valuation allowances are established when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. Fiscal 2014 includes tax on profits of $3.4 million, offset by a recovery of $0.3 million related to investment tax credits. Fiscal 2013 includes tax on profits of $1.8 million, offset by a recovery of $0.2 million related to investment tax credits. We had approximately $0.1 million of total gross unrecognized tax benefit as of December 31, 2014 and as of December 31, 2013, which if recognized would favorably affect our income tax rate in future periods. The unrecognized tax benefit relates primarily to prior year Pennsylvania state franchise taxes and other insignificant U.S. state taxes. A reconciliation of the federal statutory income tax rate to our effective tax rate is set forth in Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) To mitigate the impact of the change in fair value of our foreign exchange contracts on our financial results, in October 2012 we begun applying hedge accounting for the majority of the contracts we need to meet our Canadian dollar requirements on a prospective basis. The impact of the fair value adjustment on outstanding hedged contracts for Fiscal 2014 was a net loss in other comprehensive income of $0.4 million compared to $0.3 million for Fiscal 2013 . The following table presents other comprehensive income for the periods presented: Year ended December 31, 2014 2013 Comprehensive income $ (377,460 ) $ (289,085 ) Increase in provision over prior period $ (88,375 ) Decrease - percentage 31 % Percentage of net revenues (0 ) % (0 ) % 43 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2013 AS COMPARED TO THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2012 NET REVENUES The following table presents our net revenues, by revenue source: Year ended December 31, 2013 2012 Domain Services: Wholesale Domain Services $ 87,294,173 $ 87,434,450 Value Added Services 10,271,219 10,586,460 Total Wholesale 97,565,392 98,020,910 Retail 8,360,035 6,775,160 Portfolio 7,479,240 5,965,147 Total Domain Services 113,404,667 110,761,217 Network Access Services: Ting 16,530,237 3,965,684 Total Network Access Services 16,530,237 3,965,684 $ 129,934,904 $ 114,726,901 Increase over prior period $ 15,208,003 Increase - percentage 13 % The following table presents our revenues, by revenue source, as a percentage of total revenues: Year ended December 31, 2013 2012 Domain Services: Wholesale Domain Services 67 % 76 % Value Added Services 8 % 9 % Total Wholesale 75 % 85 % Retail 6 % 6 % Portfolio 6 % 5 % Total Domain Services 87 % 96 % Network Access Services: Ting 13 % 4 % Total Network Access Services 13 % 4 % 100 % 100 % Total net revenues for Fiscal 2013 increased by $15.2 million, or 13%, to $129.9 million from $114.7 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012 (Fiscal 2012). Deferred revenue from domain name registrations and other Internet services at December 31, 2013 decreased to $70.0 million from $71.0 million at December 31, 2012. Deferred revenue has been impacted by the transfer of a significant number of names by certain of our customers from our registrar accreditation to their own registrar accreditation, no longer registering new domain names on our platform. No customer accounted for more than 10% of revenue during Fiscal 2013 and, at December 31, 2013, no customer accounted more than 10% of accounts receivable. Significant management judgment is required at the time of recording of revenue to assess whether the collection of the resulting receivables is reasonably assured. On an ongoing basis, we assess the ability of our customers to make required payments. Based on this assessment, we expect the carrying amount of our outstanding receivables, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, to be fully collected. 44 Domain Services Wholesale During Fiscal 2013, domain services revenue decreased by $0.1 million to $87.3 million when compared to Fiscal 2012, primarily the result of two customers who have acquired their own registrar accreditation no longer registering new domain names on our platform. Value-Added Services decreased by $0.3 million to $10.3 million when compared to Fiscal 2012. This decrease was largely due to the $0.6 million decrease in revenue from sale of domain names and advertising from the OpenSRS Domain Expiry Stream which was primarily attributable to slower sales to certain third-party partners. This decrease was partially offset by increased digital certificate and email sales. During Fiscal 2013, the number of transactions from all new, renewed and transferred-in domain name registrations that we processed decreased by 0.1 million transactions to 9.1 million when compared to Fiscal 2012 and reflects the impact of customers who have acquired their own registrar accreditation no longer registering new domain names on our platform. While we anticipate that the number of new, renewed and transferred-in domain name registrations will continue to incrementally increase in the long term, the volatility in the market could affect the growth of domain names that we manage. As of December 31, 2013, the total domain names under our management remain essentially flat at 10.6 million, when compared to December 31, 2012. The total domain names under our management continue to be impacted by two customers who have acquired their own accreditation no longer registering new domain names on our platform. In addition, we provide provisioning services on a monthly basis to accredited registrars who use our technical systems to process domain registrations with their own accreditation. As of December 31, 2013, we managed 3.6 million domain names on behalf of other accredited registrars, an increase of 0.2 million compared as of December 31, 2012. Retail Net revenues from Retail for Fiscal 2013, as compared to Fiscal 2012, increased by $1.6 million to $8.4 million. This increase was largely due to the success that our retail marketing initiatives and improved websites are having on our ability to attract new customers and retain existing ones for Hover. Portfolio During Fiscal 2013, Portfolio revenue increased by $1.5 million, or 25%, to $7.5 million when compared to Fiscal 2012. This increase primarily resulted from payments we received on our withdrawal for the domain related rights for our .media and .marketing new gTLD applications being partially offset by lower sales of big ticket domains and certain of our vendors electing not to repeat market development programs that they undertook during fiscal 2012. We have two primary buyers for our domain names - domain investors and businesses. While businesses domain sales continue to grow, we have begun to see evidence of domain investors interest slowing as they attempt to assess the impact the introduction of new gTLDs may have on their businesses. Accordingly, until the impact of new gTLDs can be appropriately assessed, we will be shifting our efforts towards appealing more to businesses while continuing to work with domain investors. The market for monetization of domain names is rapidly evolving and is being impacted by uncertainty around the implementation of ICANNs New gTLD Program. Network Access Services Ting Net revenues from Ting mobile phone services and equipment for Fiscal 2013, as compared to Fiscal 2012, increased by $12.6 million to $16.5 million and primarily reflects the impact of Tings growing subscriber base. As of December 31, 2013, Ting had 48,000 subscribers and 74,000 mobile devices under its management compared to 10,000 subscribers and 15,000 devices under management as of December 31, 2012. 45 COST OF REVENUES The following table presents our cost of revenues, by revenue source: Year ended December 31, 2013 2012 Domain Services: Wholesale Domain Services $ 73,468,824 $ 73,168,196 Value Added Services 2,115,167 2,032,328 Total Wholesale 75,583,991 75,200,524 Retail 3,521,023 2,675,843 Portfolio 1,234,214 832,008 Total Domain Services 80,339,228 78,708,375 Network Access Services: Ting 12,621,093 4,129,020 Total Network Access Services 12,621,093 4,129,020 Network Expenses: Network, other costs 4,835,939 4,925,058 Network, depreciation and amortization costs 711,763 755,280 5,547,702 5,680,338 $ 98,508,023 $ 88,517,733 Increase over prior period $ 9,990,290 Increase - percentage 11 % The following table presents our cost of revenues, as a percentage of total cost of revenues for the periods presented: Year ended December 31, 2013 2012 Domain Services: Wholesale Domain Services 74 % 82 % Value Added Services 2 % 2 % Total Wholesale 76 % 84 % Retail 4 % 3 % Portfolio 1 % 1 % Total Domain Services 81 % 88 % Network Access Services: Ting 13 % 5 % Total Network Access Services 13 % 5 % Network Expenses: Network, other costs 5 % 6 % Network, depreciation and amortization costs 1 % 1 % 6 % 7 % 100 % 100 % Total cost of revenues for Fiscal 2013 increased by $10.0 million, or 11%, to $98.5 million from $88.5 million in Fiscal 2012 primarily the result of increased sales volumes. Prepaid domain registration and other Internet services fees as of December 31, 2013 decreased by $1.5 million, or 3%, to $56.0 million from $57.5 million at December 31, 2012. Prepaid domain registration and other Internet services fees have been impacted by certain of our customers, who have acquired their own registrar accreditation, no longer registering new domain names on our platform. 46 Domain Services Wholesale Costs for Wholesale for Fiscal 2013 increased by $0.4 million to $75.6 million, when compared to Fiscal 2012, primarily the result of increases in registration fees paid to the registries that were implemented on January 15, 2012 and the fact that certain marketing initiatives undertaken by both vendors and resellers in fiscal 2012 have either been significantly scaled back or cancelled for fiscal 2013. Retail Costs for Retail for Fiscal 2013, increased by $0.8 million, to $3.5 million, when compared to Fiscal 2012. This increase resulted primarily from the increased cost resulting from the additional volume in Hover services. Portfolio Costs for Portfolio increased by $0.4 million for Fiscal 2013, to $1.2 million when compared to Fiscal 2012, primarily the result of costs associated with our New gTLD applications. Network Access Services Ting Costs for Ting for Fiscal 2013 increased by $8.5 million, to $12.6 million when compared to Fiscal 2012. This increase primarily reflects the impact our larger subscriber base is having on service costs. Network Costs Network costs decreased by $0.2 million for Fiscal 2013, to $5.5 million as compared to Fiscal 2012. These results reflect our improved efficiency in operating and managing our co-location facilities, which has also enabled us to decrease our capital spend on network equipment. SALES AND MARKETING Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs. These costs include commissions and related expenses of our sales, product management, public relations, call center, support and marketing personnel. Other sales and marketing expenses include customer acquisition costs, advertising and other promotional costs. Year ended December 31, 2013 2012 Sales and marketing $ 12,141,036 $ 8,701,446 Increase over prior period $ 3,439,590 Increase - percentage 40 % Percentage of net revenues 9 % 8 % Sales and marketing expenses for Fiscal 2013 increased by $3.4 million, or 40%, to $12.1 million as compared to Fiscal 2012. This increase primarily related to workforce and marketing expenses incurred in connection with our Ting mobile service offering. TECHNICAL OPERATIONS AND DEVELOPMENT Technical operations and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs and related expenses required to support the development of new or enhanced service offerings and the maintenance and upgrading of existing infrastructure. This includes expenses incurred in the research, design and development of technology that we use to register domain names, email, retail, domain portfolio and other Internet services, as well as to distribute our digital content services. Editorial costs relating to the rating and review of the software content libraries are included in the costs of product development. All technical operations and development costs are expensed as incurred. 47 Year ended December 31, 2013 2012 Technical operations and development $ 4,158,603 $ 4,302,820 Decrease over prior period $ (144,217 ) Decrease - percentage (3 )% Percentage of net revenues 3 % 4 % Technical operations and development expenses for Fiscal 2013 decreased by $0.1 million, or 3%, to $4.2 million when compared to Fiscal 2012. These decreases primarily resulted from a decrease in workforce costs. This decrease resulted from payment received for a 2010 Ontario Interactive Digital Media Tax Credit (OIDMTC) of $0.4 million, primarily related to eligible personnel costs, during Fiscal 2013. This was partially offset by an increase in workforce related costs in the amount of $0.3 million. GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE General and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and related costs for managerial and administrative personnel, fees for professional services, public listing expenses, rent, foreign exchange and other general corporate expenses. Year ended December 31, 2013 2012 General and administrative $ 7,204,895 $ 6,610,819 Increase over prior period $ 594,076 Increase - percentage 9 % Percentage of net revenues 6 % 6 % General and administrative expenses for Fiscal 2013 increased by $0.6 million, or 9%, to $7.2 million as compared to Fiscal 2012. This increase was primarily the result of incremental workforce related costs as well as additional costs incurred in processing a higher volume of credit cards. DEPRECIATION OF PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Year ended December 31, 2013 2012 Depreciation of property and equipment $ 215,447 $ 190,420 Increase over prior period $ 25,027 Increase - percentage 13 % Percentage of net revenues 0 % 0 % Depreciation costs for Fiscal 2013 remained essentially flat at $0.2 million. LOSS ON DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Year ended December 31, 2013 2012 Loss on disposition of property and equipment $ - $ 118,944 (Decrease) increase over prior period $ (118,944 ) Decrease - percentage (100 )% Percentage of net revenues 0 % 0 % As part of our ongoing initiatives to improve the efficiency of our production environment, we retired some older computer hardware at our co-location facilities during Fiscal 2012, which resulted in a loss on the disposition of such equipment. 48 AMORTIZATION OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS Year ended December 31, 2013 2012 Amortization of intangible assets $ 876,120 $ 876,120 Decrease over prior period $ - Decrease - percentage - % Percentage of net revenues 1 % 1 % Amortization of intangible assets consists of amounts arising in connection with the acquisition of Innerwise, Inc. in July 2007 and the acquisition of EPAG in August 2011. The brand and customer relationships acquired in connection with the acquisitions of Innerwise Inc. and EPAG are being amortized on a straight-line basis over seven years. Technology acquired in connection with the acquisition of EPAG is amortized on a straight-line basis over two years. LOSS (GAIN) ON CURRENCY FORWARD CONTRACTS Although our functional currency is the U.S. dollar, a major portion of our fixed expenses are incurred in Canadian dollars. Our goal with regard to foreign currency exposure is, to the extent possible; to achieve operational cost certainty, manage financial exposure to certain foreign exchange fluctuations and to neutralize some of the impact of foreign currency exchange movements. Accordingly, we enter into foreign exchange contracts to mitigate the exchange rate risk on portions of our Canadian dollar exposure. Year ended December 31, 2013 2012 Loss (gain) on currency forward contracts $ 676,120 $ (682,851 ) Increase over prior period $ 1,358,971 Increase - percentage (199 )% Percentage of net revenues 1 % (1 )% We have entered into certain forward exchange contracts that do not comply with the requirements of hedge accounting to meet a portion of our future Canadian dollar requirements through December 2014. The impact of the fair value adjustment on outstanding contracts for Fiscal 2013 was a net loss of $0.5 million, compared to a net gain of $1.1 million for Fiscal 2012. The impact of the fair value adjustment on outstanding contracts was increased by a realized loss upon settlement of currency forward contracts of $0.2 million for Fiscal 2013 and partially offset by a realized loss of $0.4 million for Fiscal 2012. At December 31, 2013, our balance sheet reflects a derivative instrument liability of $0.5 million as a result of our existing foreign exchange contracts. Until their respective maturity dates, these contracts will fluctuate in value in line with movements in the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar. OTHER INCOME AND EXPENSES Year ended December 31, 2013 2012 Other income (expense), net $ (354,857 ) $ 336,848 Decrease over prior period $ (691,705 ) Decrease - percentage (205 )% Percentage of net revenues (0 )% 0 % Other expenses for Fiscal 2013 increased by $0.7 million, to $0.4 million, as compared with Fiscal 2012. During Fiscal 2013 we made interest payments of $0.4 million pursuant to the terms of our credit facility with the Bank of Montreal. During Fiscal 2012, we sold certain intangible assets with no book value for $0.5 million, which was partially offset by the interest payable in Fiscal 2012 of $0.2 million pursuant to the terms of our credit facility with the Bank of Montreal. 49 INCOME TAXES The following table presents our provision for income taxes for the periods presented: Year ended December 31, 2013 2012 Provision for income taxes $ 1,619,339 $ 2,004,156 Decrease in provision over prior period $ (384,817 ) Decrease - percentage (19 )% Percentage of net revenues 1 % 2 % We operate in various tax jurisdictions, and accordingly, our income is subject to varying rates of tax. Losses incurred in one jurisdiction cannot be used to offset income taxes payable in another jurisdiction. Our ability to use income tax loss carryforwards and future income tax deductions is dependent upon our operations in the tax jurisdictions in which such losses or deductions arise. Income taxes are computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement carrying values and tax base of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to affect taxable income. Valuation allowances are established when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. Fiscal 2013 includes tax on profits of $1.8 million, offset by a recovery of $0.2 million related to investment tax credits. Fiscal 2012 includes tax on profits of $2.1 million, offset by a recovery of $0.1 million related to investment tax credits. We had approximately $0.1 million of total gross unrecognized tax benefit as of December 31, 2013 and $0.4 million of total gross unrecognized tax benefit as of December 31, 2012, which if recognized would favorably affect our income tax rate in future periods. The unrecognized tax benefit relates primarily to prior year Pennsylvania state franchise taxes and other insignificant U.S. state taxes. A reconciliation of the federal statutory income tax rate to our effective tax rate is set forth in Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) To mitigate the impact of the change in fair value of our foreign exchange contracts on our financial results, in October 2012 we begun applying hedge accounting for the majority of the contracts we need to meet our Canadian dollar requirements on a prospective basis. The impact of the fair value adjustment on outstanding hedged contracts for Fiscal 2013 was a net gain in other comprehensive income of $0.3 million. The impact of the fair value adjustment on outstanding hedged contracts was a net loss in other comprehensive income of $44,000 for Fiscal 2012. The following table presents other comprehensive income for the periods presented: Year ended December 31, 2013 2012 Other comprehensive income (loss) $ (289,085 ) $ 44,104 Decrease in provision over prior period $ (333,189 ) Decrease - percentage (755 )% Percentage of net revenues (0 )% 0 % 50 Liquidity and capital resources As of December 31, 2014, our cash and cash equivalents balance decreased by $4.1 million to $8.3 million when compared to December 31, 2013. Our principal sources of liquidity during Fiscal 2014 was net cash provided by operating activities of $8.9 million and the proceeds of $3.4 million we received on the exercise of stock options. We have credit agreements (collectively the Amended Credit Facility) with the Bank that were amended on November 19, 2012, and which provide us with access to a demand loan revolving facility (the 2012 DLR Loan) and a demand loan revolving reducing facility (the 2012 DLRR Loan) that provide for a $14 million, five year revolving credit facility, a $3.5 million treasury risk management facility and a $1.0 million operating demand loan. At December 31, 2014, the 2012 DLR Loan and the DLRR Loan were fully repaid. The Amended Credit Facility also provides for a $3.5 million settlement risk line to assist us with hedging Canadian dollar exposure through foreign exchange forward contracts and/or currency options. Under the terms of the Amended Credit Facility, we may enter into such agreements at market rates with terms not to exceed 18 months. As of December 31, 2014, the Company held contracts in the amount of $26.2 million to trade U.S. dollars in exchange for Canadian dollars. The Amended Credit Facility contains customary events of default and affirmative and negative covenants and restrictions, including certain financial maintenance covenants such as a maximum total funded debt to EBITDA ratio and a minimum fixed charge ratio. As of December 31, 2014, we were in compliance with all our covenants. Cash Flow from Operating Activities Year ended December 31, 2014 Net cash inflows from operating activities were $8.9 million, an increase of 2% when compared to the prior year. Net income, after adjusting for non-cash charges, during Fiscal 2014 was $8.0 million, an increase of 42% when compared to the prior year. Net income included non-cash charges and recoveries of $1.7 million such as depreciation, amortization, impairment of indefinite life intangible asset , stock-based compensation, the provision for unrealized losses on currency forward contracts, excess tax benefit related to stock-based compensation and a recovery for deferred tax. In addition, changes in our working capital generated $0.9 million. Positive contributions of $2.9 million from movements in accounts payable, deferred revenue, prepaid expenses and deposits and accrued liabilities were partially offset by our utilizing $2.0 million to fund a reduction in deferred registration costs, income taxes, customer deposits and inventory and an increase in accounts receivable. Year ended December 31, 2013 Net cash inflows from operating activities were $8.7 million, an increase of 37% when compared to the prior year. Net income, after adjusting for non-cash charges, during Fiscal 2013 was $5.7 million, which included non-cash charges and recoveries of $1.5 million such as depreciation, amortization, stock-based compensation, the provision for unrealized losses on currency forward contracts, excess tax benefit related to stock-based compensation and a recovery for deferred tax. In addition, changes in our working capital generated $3.0 million. Positive contributions of $5.4 million from movements in deferred registration costs, income taxes, accrued liabilities, inventory, accounts payable and prepaid expenses and deposits, were partially offset by our utilizing $2.4 million to fund a reduction in deferred revenue and customer deposits and an increase in accounts receivable. Year ended December 31, 2012 Net cash inflows from operating activities were $6.3 million, an increase of 8% when compared to the prior year. Net income, after adjusting for non-cash charges, during Fiscal 2012 was $6.0 million, which included non-cash charges and recoveries of $1.6 million such as a provision for deferred tax, gain on currency forward contracts, depreciation, amortization and stock-based compensation. The remainder of our source of net cash flow from operating activities was from changes in our working capital, with positive contributions of $4.3 million from movements in deferred revenue, accounts payable, accrued expenses, income taxes recoverable and customer deposits being partially offset by our utilizing $4.0 million to fund deferred registration costs, deposits with registries, accounts receivable and prepaid expenses. Cash Flow from Financing Activities Year ended December 31, 2014 Net cash used in financing activities during Fiscal 2014 totaled $4.1 million as compared to $1.4 million during Fiscal 2013. Net cash of $6.3 million was used to fully repay our Amended Credit Facility and $1.2 million was used to repurchase 0.1 million shares under our Normal Course Issuer Bid announced in March 2014. These uses of funds in financing activities were partially offset by the proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $3.4 million. 51 Year ended December 31, 2013 Net cash used in financing activities during Fiscal 2013 totaled $1.4 million as compared to $5.8 million during Fiscal 2012. Net cash of $6.5 million was used to fund the repurchase of 4.1 million of our shares through a modified Dutch auction tender offer that was successfully concluded on January 4, 2013 and to repurchase 0.1 million shares under our current Normal Course Issuer Bid during the three months ended March 31, 2013. In addition, $2.6 million was used to fund principal repayments under our Amended Credit Facility. These uses of funds in financing activities were partially offset by our drawing $5.2 million under our Amended Credit Facility in January 2013 to fund a portion of the modified Dutch auction tender offer and by the proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $2.6 million. Year ended December 31, 2012 Net cash used in financing activities during Fiscal 2012 totaled $5.8 million as compared to $0.4 million during Fiscal 2011. Net cash of $9.1 million was used to fund the repurchase of 7.6 million of our shares through a modified Dutch auction tender offer that was successfully concluded on January 23, 2012 and to repurchase 2.4 million shares under our current Normal Course Issuer Bid during Fiscal 2012. A portion of the amount to fund the modified Dutch auction tender offer was from a $4.0 million draw down on our DLR Loan facility. In addition, during Fiscal 2012, $1.2 million was used to fund principal repayments under our loan agreements. These uses were partially offset by the proceeds of $0.4 million we received on the exercise of options by directors and employees of the Company. Cash Flow from Investing Activities Year ended December 31, 2014 Investing activities during Fiscal 2014 used net cash of $8.2 million to fund our contribution for the auction and registry seed capital costs for the .online gTLD joint venture, as well as the escrow accounts that were established to fund our proposed acquisition of a controlling interest in an independent Internet service provider in Charlottesville, Virginia doing business primarily as Blue Ridge InternetWorks. In addition, we used net cash of $0.7 million to acquire additional property and equipment. Year ended December 31, 2013 Investing activities during Fiscal 2013 used net cash of $1.3 million to acquire additional property and equipment. Year ended December 31, 2012 Investing activities during Fiscal 2012 used net cash of $0.5 million; $1.0 million was used to acquire additional property and equipment, which was partially offset by the selling of certain intangible assets with no book value for $0.5 million during Fiscal 2012. 52 Subsequent events (a) On January 8, 2015, we announced the successful conclusion of a modified Dutch auction tender offer that was previously announced on December 8, 2014. Under the terms of the offer, we repurchased an aggregate of 193,907 shares of our common stock at a purchase price of $18.50 per share, for a total of $3,587,280, excluding transaction costs of approximately $60,000. The purchase price and all transaction costs were funded from available cash. All shares purchased in the tender offer received the same price and all shares repurchased were immediately retired. As a result of the completion of the tender offer, as of January 7, 2015, we had 11,135,825 shares issued and outstanding. (b) In January 2015, we borrowed $3.5 million under our Amended Credit Facility in order to fund the acquisition of a controlling ownership in Ting Virginia , LLC. This borrowing is subject to the terms and conditions described in note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. See item (d) below. (c) On February 11, 2015, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved a stock buyback program to repurchase up to $20 million of our common stock in the open market and privately negotiated transactions. Purchases will be made exclusively through the facilities of the NASDAQ Capital Market. The stock buyback program commenced on February 16, 2015 and will terminate on or before February 15, 2016. As of March 6, 2015, we have spent a total of $2.0 million to repurchase 108,605 shares under this stock buyback program, and therefore, the remaining repurchase authorization is $18.0 million. All shares purchased by us under the stock buyback program will be retired and returned to treasury. (d) On February 24, 2015, Ting Fiber, Inc., one of our wholly owned subsidiaries, acquired a controlling ownership interest in the newly formed Ting Virginia, LLC and its acquired subsidiaries, Blue Ridge Websoft , LLC (doing business as Blue Ridge InternetWorks), Fiber Roads, LLC and Navigator Network Services, LLC (the BRI Group) for a consideration of approximately $3.6 million. Ting Virginia, LLC is an independent Internet service provider in Charlottesville, Virginia, doing business primarily as Blue Ridge InternetWorks. The BRI Group provides high speed internet access, Internet hosting and network consulting services to over 3,000 customers in central Virginia. We will satisfy the purchase price through an advance under our 2012 DLR Loan facility. (e) In February 2015, we waived our rights under the proposed joint venture to operate the .online registry and instead entered into a Joint Marketing agreement with our venture partners under which our original capital contributions have been returned and a set of go-forward marketing arrangements have been created instead. These marketing arrangements have resulted in a positive financial contribution for us, which will be recognized once all the terms of the contract have been satisfied , commencing in the three months ending March 31, 2015. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations We do not have any transactions with unconsolidated entities, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, whereby we have financial guarantees, subordinated retained interests, derivative instruments, or other contingent arrangements that expose us to material continuing risks, contingent liabilities, or any other obligation under a variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk, or credit risk support to us. Contractual Obligations For the purpose of this table, contractual obligations for purchases of goods or services are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. The expected timing of payment of the obligations discussed below is estimated based on information available to us as of December 31, 2014. Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different depending on the time of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed-upon amounts for some obligations. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 31, 2014: Contractual Obligations for the year ending December 31, Contractual Lease Obligations Purchase Obligations (1) Total Obligations 2015 $ 659,000 $ 3,951,000 $ 4,610,000 2016 608,000 8,051,000 8,659,000 2017 642,000 12,688,000 13,330,000 2018 642,000 642,000 2019 642,000 642,000 Thereafter 1,731,000 1,731,000 $ 4,924,000 $ 24,690,000 $ 29,614,000 (1) Purchase obligations include all other legally binding service contracts for mobile telephone services and other operational agreements to be delivered during Fiscal 2015 and subsequent years. 53