ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains, in addition to historical information, forward-looking statements by us with regard to our expectations as to financial results and other aspects of our business that involve risks and uncertainties and may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as may, should, anticipate, believe, plan, estimate, expect and intend, and other similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained in this report include statements regarding, among other things: the competition we expect to encounter as our business develops and competes in a broader range of Internet services; the Company's foreign currency requirements, specifically for the Canadian dollar; Ting mobile, Roam mobile and fixed Internet access subscriber growth and retention rates; our belief regarding the underlying platform for our domain services, our expectation regarding the trend of sales of domain names and advertising; our expectations regarding portfolio revenue, our belief that, by increasing the number of services we offer, we will be able to generate higher revenues; the revenue that our parked page vendor relationships may generate in the future; our expectation regarding litigation; the potential impact of current and pending claims on our business; our valuations of certain deferred tax assets; our expectation to collect our outstanding receivables, net of our allowance for doubtful accounts; our expectation regarding fluctuations in certain expense and cost categories; our expectations regarding our unrecognized tax; our expectations regarding cash from operations to fund our business; the impact of cancellations of or amendments to market development fund programs under which we receive funds, our expectation regarding our ability to manage realized gains/losses from foreign currency contracts; our expectations regarding increased price competition among MVNO; our expectations regarding costs associated with migrating Ting customers using the T-Mobile platform to an alternative platform, including Verizon; our expectations regarding our ability to complete the migration of customers from the T-Mobile platform in a timely manner; the impact of the COVID-19 outbreak on our business, operations and financial performance; and general business conditions and economic uncertainty. These statements are based on managements current expectations and are subject to a number of uncertainties and risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Many factors affect our ability to achieve our objectives and to successfully develop and commercialize our services including: Changes in the nature of key strategic relationships with our MVNO partners; The effects of vigorous competition on a highly penetrated mobile telephony market, including the impact of competition on the price we are able to charge subscribers for services and devices and on the geographic areas served by our MVNO partner wireless networks; Our ability to manage any potential increase in subscriber churn or bad debt expense; Our ability to continue to generate sufficient working capital to meet our operating requirements; Our ability to service our debt commitments; Our ability to maintain a good working relationship with our vendors and customers; The ability of vendors to continue to supply our needs; Actions by our competitors; Our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in our business; Our ability to effectively manage our business; The effects of any material impairment of our goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets; Our ability to obtain and maintain approvals from regulatory authorities on regulatory issues; Our ability to invest in the build-out of fiber networks into selected towns and cities to provide Internet access services to residential and commercial customers while maintaining the development and sales of our established services; Adverse tax consequences such as those related to changes in tax laws or tax rates or their interpretations, including with respect to the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017; The application of judgment in determining our global provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets or liabilities or other tax liabilities given the ultimate tax determination is uncertain; Our ability to effectively integrate acquisitions; Our ability to attract and retain customers by securing access to the latest mobile network technology, and migrating existing customers when necessary; Our ability to migrate existing T-Mobile customers to one of our MVNO partners, in an efficient and cost-effective manner; Our ability to monitor, assess and respond to the rapidly changing impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. Our current assessment of expected impacts has been included below as part of the Opportunities, Challenges & Risks section Pending or new litigation; and 25 Table of Contents Factors set forth under the caption Item 1A Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019 filed with the SEC on March 4, 2020 (the 2019 Annual Report). As previously disclosed the under the caption Item 1A Risk Factors in our 2019 Annual Report, data protection regulations may impose legal obligations on us that we cannot meet or that conflict with our ICANN contractual requirements. This list of factors that may affect our future performance and financial and competitive position and the accuracy of forward-looking statements is illustrative, but it is by no means exhaustive. Accordingly, all forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based on information available to us as of the date of this document, and we assume no obligation to update these cautionary statements or any forward-looking statements, except as required by law. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. We qualify all the forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q by the foregoing cautionary statements. OVERVIEW Our mission is to provide simple useful services that help people unlock the power of the Internet. We accomplish this by reducing the complexity of our customers experience as they access the Internet (at home or on the go) and while using Internet services such as domain name registration, email and other Internet services. We are organized, managed and report our financial results as two segments, Network Access Services and Domain Services, which are differentiated primarily by their services, the markets they serve and the regulatory environments in which they operate. Our management regularly reviews our operating results on a consolidated basis, principally to make decisions about how we utilize our resources and to measure our consolidated operating performance. To assist us in forecasting growth and to help us monitor the effectiveness of our operational strategies, our management regularly reviews revenue for each of our service offerings in order to gain more depth and understanding of the key business metrics driving our business. Accordingly, we report Network Access Services and Domain Services revenue separately For the three months ended March 31, 2020 and March 31, 2019 , we reported revenue of $84.0 million and $79.0 million, respectively. Network Access Services Network Access Services includes mobile, fixed high-speed Internet access services and other revenues, including, billing solutions to small ISPs. Our primary mobile service offering (Ting Mobile) is mainly distributed through the Ting website and to a lesser extent certain third-party retail stores and on-line retailers. We generate revenues from the sale of retail telephony services, mobile phone hardware and related accessories to individuals and small businesses through the Ting website. Ting Mobiles primary focus is providing simple and easy to use services, including simple value pricing, in particular for multi-line accounts, and superior customer care. Our Roam Mobility, Zipsim and Always Online Wireless brands (collectively Roam Mobility brands) operate as a MVNO on the same nationwide Global System for Mobile communications network as Ting Mobile. Roam Mobility brands cater to international travelers and distribute products through third-party retail stores and product branded websites. The Company also derives revenue from the sale of fixed high-speed Internet access (Ting Internet) in select towns throughout the United States, with further expansion underway to both new and existing Ting towns. Our primary sales channel of Ting Internet is through the Ting website. The primary focus of Ting Internet is to provide reliable Gigabit Internet services to consumer and business customers. On January 1, 2020, the Company closed its previously disclosed acquisition of Cedar Holdings Group, Incorporated (Cedar), a fiber Internet provider business based in Durango, Colorado. Cedar is a telecommunications provider serving multiple markets in the Western Slope of Colorado and northwestern New Mexico. Cedar has focused the last several years on building fiber to enterprise, anchor institution, and residential customers. Revenues from Ting Mobile and Ting Internet are generated in the U.S. and are provided on a monthly basis with no fixed contract term. Revenues from Roam Mobility brands are generated in the U.S. and Canada on a prepaid usage basis with no fixed contract terms. As of March 31, 2020, Ting managed mobile telephony services for approximately 272,000 subscribers and 154,000 accounts. For a discussion of subscribers and how they impacted our financial results, see the Net Revenue discussion below. Domain Services Domain Services includes wholesale and retail domain name registration services, value added services and portfolio services derived through our OpenSRS, eNom, Ascio, EPAG and Hover brands. We earn revenues primarily from the registration fees charged to resellers in connection with new, renewed and transferred domain name registrations. In addition, we earn revenues from the sale of retail domain name registration and email services to individuals and small businesses; and by making our portfolio of domain names available for sale or lease. Domain Services revenues are attributed to the country in which the contract originates, mainly the Canadian and the U.S. Ascio domain services contracts, which were acquired by the Company on March 18, 2019, and EPAG primarily originate in Europe. 26 Table of Contents Our primary distribution channel is a global network of approximately 36,000 resellers that operate in over 150 countries and who typically provide their customers, the end-users of Internet-based services, with solutions for establishing and maintaining an online presence. Our primary focus is serving the needs of this network of resellers by providing the broadest portfolio of generic top-level domain (gTLD) and the country code top-level domain options and related services, a white-label platform that facilitates the provisioning and management of domain names, a powerful Application Program Interface, easy-to-use interfaces, comprehensive management and reporting tools, and proactive and attentive customer service. Our services are integral to the solutions that our resellers deliver to their customers. We provide second tier support to our resellers by email, chat and phone in the event resellers experience issues or problems with our services. In addition, our Network Operating Center proactively monitors all services and network infrastructure to address deficiencies before customer services are impacted. We believe that the underlying platforms for our services are among the most mature, reliable and functional reseller-oriented provisioning and management platforms in our industry, and we continue to refine, evolve and improve these services for both resellers and end-users. Our business model is characterized primarily by non-refundable, up-front payments, which lead to recurring revenue and positive operating cash flow. Wholesale, primarily branded as OpenSRS, eNom, EPAG and Ascio, derives revenue from its domain service and from providing value-added services. The OpenSRS, eNom, EPAG and Ascio domain services manage 23.9 million domain names under the Tucows, eNom, EPAG and Ascio ICANN registrar accreditations and for other registrars under their own accreditations, which has decreased by 1.3 million domain names since March 31, 2019. The decrease is driven by the continued erosion of registrations related to non-core customers from our Enom brand. Value-Added Services include hosted email which provides email delivery and webmail access to millions of mailboxes, Internet security services, Internet hosting, WHOIS privacy, publishing tools and other value-added services. All of these services are made available to end-users through a network of 36,000 web hosts, ISPs, and other resellers around the world. In addition, we also derive revenue by monetizing domain names which are near the end of their lifecycle through advertising revenue or auction sale. Retail, primarily the Hover and eNom portfolio of websites, including eNom, eNom Central and Bulkregister, derive revenues from the sale of domain name registration and email services to individuals and small businesses. Retail also includes our Personal Names Service based on over 36,000 surname domains that allows roughly two-thirds of Americans to purchase an email address based on their last name. Portfolio generates revenue by offering names in our domain portfolio for resale through a number of distribution channels including our reseller network. In the fourth quarter of 2019, the Company disposed of its entire domain portfolio, excluding surname domains used in the Realnames email service. The Company expects portfolio revenue to materially decline in Fiscal 2020 and thereafter. KEY BUSINESS METRICS AND NON-GAAP MEASURES We regularly review a number of business metrics, including the following key metrics and non-GAAP measures, to assist us in evaluating our business, measure the performance of our business model, identify trends impacting our business, determine resource allocations, formulate financial projections and make strategic business decisions. The following tables set forth the key business metrics which we believe are the primary indicators of our performance for the periods presented: Adjusted EBITDA Tucows reports all financial information in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, to assist financial statement users in an assessment of our historical performance, we typically disclose and discuss a non-GAAP financial measure, adjusted EBITDA, on investor conference calls and related events that exclude certain non-cash and other charges as we believe that the non-GAAP information enhances investors overall understanding of our financial performance. Please see discussion of adjusted EBITDA in the Results of Operations section below. Ting Mobile For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 (in '000's) Ting mobile accounts under management 154 160 Ting mobile subscribers under management 272 284 (1) For a discussion of these period-to-period changes in subscribers and devices under management and how they impacted our financial results, see the Net Revenues discussion below. Ting Internet For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 (in '000's) Ting Internet accounts under management 12 8 Ting Internet serviceable addresses (1) 45 32 (1) Defined as premises to which Ting has the capability to provide a customer connection in a service area. Domain Services For the Three Months Ended March 31, (1) 2020 2019 (in 000's) Total new, renewed and transferred-in domain name registrations provisioned 4,756 4,562 Domains under management Registered using Registrar Accreditation belonging to the Tucows Group 19,145 20,208 Registered using Registrar Accreditation belonging to Resellers 4,750 4,999 Total domain names under management 23,895 25,207 (1) For a discussion of these period-to-period changes in the domains provisioned and domains under management and how they impacted our financial results see the Net Revenues discussion below. 27 Table of Contents OPPORTUNITIES, CHALLENGES AND RISKS Our revenue is primarily realized in U.S. dollars and a major portion of our operating expenses are paid in Canadian dollars. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar may have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results from operations. In particular, we may be adversely affected by a significant weakening of the U.S. dollar against the Canadian dollar on a quarterly and an annual basis. Our policy with respect to foreign currency exposure is to manage our financial exposure to certain foreign exchange fluctuations with the objective of neutralizing some or all of the impact of foreign currency exchange movements by entering into foreign exchange forward contracts to mitigate the exchange risk on a portion of our Canadian dollar exposure. We may not always enter into such forward contracts and such contracts may not always be available and economical for us. Additionally, the forward rates established by the contracts may be less advantageous than the market rate upon settlement. Network Access Services As a MVNO our Ting Mobile service is reliant on our Mobile Network Operators (MNOs) providing competitive networks. Our MNOs each continue to invest in network expansion and modernization to improve their competitive positions. Deployment of new and sophisticated technology on a very large-scale entails risks. Should they fail to implement, maintain and expand their network capacity and coverage, adapt to future changes in technologies and continued access to and deployment of adequate spectrum successfully, our ability to provide wireless services to our subscribers, to retain and attract subscribers and to maintain and grow our subscriber revenues could be adversely affected, which would negatively impact our operating margins. Ting Mobile enjoyed rapid growth in its first four years of operation with the growth slowing for the past two years. During the rapid growth phase, we were able to continue to grow gross customer additions and maintain a consistent churn rate, which allowed us to maintain net new customer additions despite the impact of churn on a fast-growing customer base. We have also been able to supplement organic growth with bulk migrations of customer bases of other MVNOs. We expect price competition to grow more intense in the industry which could result in increased customer churn or reductions of customer acquisition rates either of which could result in a further slowing growth rate or in certain cases, our ability to maintain growth. Two of our current MNOs, T-Mobile and Sprint, submitted a formal merger application to the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") in 2018, which has since been approved. In February 2020, the lawsuit filed by certain state attorneys general opposing the merger was overruled in favour of the merger. T-Mobile and Sprint successfully completed the merger on April 1, 2020. This consolidation of our MNOs could hinder our ability in the future to negotiate favourable rates and access to mobile services. On February 17, 2020, the Company launched its mobile services with a new MNO partner, Verizon. As an ISP, we have invested and expect to continue to invest in new fiber to the home (FTTH) deployments in select markets in the United States. The investments are a reflection of our ongoing efforts to build FTTH network via public-private partnerships in communities we identify as having strong, unmet demand for FTTH services. Given the significant upfront build and operational investments for these FTTH deployments, there is risk that future technological and regulatory changes as well as competitive responses from incumbent local providers, may result in us not fully recovering these investments. The communications industry continues to compete on the basis of network reach and performance, types of services and devices offered, and price. Domain Services The increased competition in the market for Internet services in recent years, which we expect will continue to intensify in the short and long term, poses a material risk for us. As new registrars are introduced, existing competitors expand service offerings and competitors offer price discounts to gain market share, we face pricing pressure, which can adversely impact our revenues and profitability. To address these risks, we have focused on leveraging the scalability of our infrastructure and our ability to provide proactive and attentive customer service to aggressively compete to attract new customers and to maintain existing customers. Substantially all of our Domain Services revenue is derived from domain name registrations and related value-added services from wholesale and retail customers using our provisioning and management platforms. The market for wholesale registrar services is both price sensitive and competitive and is evolving with the introduction of new gTLDs, particularly for large volume customers, such as large web hosting companies and owners of large portfolios of domain names. We have a relatively limited ability to increase the pricing of domain name registrations without negatively impacting our ability to maintain or grow our customer base. Growth in our Domain Services revenue is dependent upon our ability to continue to attract and retain customers by maintaining consistent domain name registration and value-added service renewal rates and to grow our customer relationships through refining, evolving and improving our provisioning platforms and customer service for both resellers and end-users. In addition, we also generate revenue through pay-per-click advertising and the sale of names from our portfolio of domain names and through the OpenSRS Domain Expiry Stream. The revenue associated with names sales and advertising has recently experienced flat to declining trends due to the uncertainty around the implementation of ICANNs New gTLD Program, lower traffic and advertising yields in the marketplace, which we expect to continue. From time-to-time certain of our vendors provide us with market development funds to expand or maintain the market position for their services. Any decision by these vendors to cancel or amend these programs for any reason may result in payments in future periods not being commensurate with what we have achieved during past periods. Sales of domain names from our domain portfolio have a negative impact on our advertising revenue as these names are no longer available for advertising purposes. In addition, the timing of larger domain names portfolio sales is unpredictable and may lead to significant quarterly fluctuations in our Portfolio revenue. In the fourth quarter of 2019, the Company disposed of its remaining domain portfolio, excluding surname domains used in the Realnames email service. The Company expects portfolio revenue to materially decline in Fiscal 2020 and thereafter. 28 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires us to make estimates and judgements that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. There have been no material changes to the critical accounting policies and estimates as previously disclosed in Part II, Item 7 of our 2019 Annual Report. For further information on our critical accounting policies and estimates, see Note 3 Recent accounting pronouncements to the consolidated financial statements of the Company in Part I, Item 1 in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Current COVID-19 Response Our Employees Tucows is a global business. Our first consideration during the global pandemic as a result of the disease caused by the novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak is for the health and safety of our employees, our customers and their communities, all around the world. Tucows has long encouraged a culture of remote work even prior to this global pandemic, and on Sunday March 8, 2020 Tucows executive leadership announced that all employees who could conceivably work from home were encouraged to do so. Tucows is actively and strongly encouraging its workforce to heed travel and all other emergency advisories, including social distancing and where appropriate, self-isolation. We expect our work from home policy to remain in effect until emergency state and governmental declarations where we have physical offices have ended and we believe the risk of community spread of the disease has subsided. Given our experience with remote work prior to COVID-19, we do not expect to have productivity issues while the overwhelming majority of our office based workforce is dispersed. For the small group of employees who are unable work from home during this time, including our order fulfillment and Fiber installation teams, many of whom work in the field, they are encouraged to practice social distancing and to continue to follow hygiene best practices and safety protocols as outlined by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. At the initial stage of the COVID-19 outbreak, we took steps to cancel and reschedule all in-home installation and service appointments across our Ting Fiber footprint. Since then, the Ting Internet team has begun to rollout a install solution for our employees and customers that minimizes risks associated with person-to-person contact. Our Customers We recognize the important role we play within the Internet space and are committed to continue providing quality service during the COVID-19 outbreak. Services like individual and wholesale domain names, email and hosting do not rely on in-person interaction or the supply chain in the same way physical products and services do. We are providing uninterrupted services for all Domains related services, across our OpenSRS, Enom, Ascio, EPAG & Hover brands. Our Mobile services businesses are both without any physical storefronts, are similarly well-positioned to weather this event. We are fully prepared to continue providing uninterrupted services for all Mobile related services, across our Ting Mobile and Roam Mobility brands. We are committed to making sure no customer who is in need is without access to core mobile service while we work through this unprecedented situation together. Our Fiber Internet business does not have bandwidth caps or other such limitations. Likewise, our networks are built with the capacity to accommodate future needs. To help our customers remain connected at home during this time, we upgraded all our lower-tier fiber customers to symmetrical gigabit access at no charge. Any additional traffic from our customers working from home has not had and is not expected to have any negative impact on connectivity. As discussed above, our install solution was implemented in early May 2020. With this service limitation, new customer acquisition will remain slower than pre-pandemic levels of growth and installation. Even with an install solution that minimizes risks, customers may be unwilling to have service personnel visit their homes or offices. Our Community Tucows believes the Internet is essential infrastructure and an immensely powerful tool, especially in times of crises where coordination is essential. From an early point in the current global crisis, it was clear to us that we were going to need to do something new and different in how we responded to COVID-19 related domain registrations. Many of these domains are registered for good, helpful purposes, such as community organization, dissemination of healthcare information, and recording peoples experiences through this pandemic. Others, however, purport to sell COVID-19 cures, vaccines, or tests, none of which are legitimately available on the market at the time of the registration and many of which pose a significant health risk to the general public. There are three major components to our COVID-19 activities related to domain registrations: (i) identification, (ii) assessment for harm, and (iii) stakeholder engagement. It is important to note that our response to each and every issue that we find is contextual and dependent on the specific circumstances. We expect to return to our regular procedures as the pandemic and corresponding risks subsides. Although this approach vastly increases the burden on our compliance staff and puts us in the uncomfortable position of having to assess the level of harm represented by a COVID-related domain and the website to which it resolves - we feel these circumstances are exceptional and are determined to do our part. In order to provide Internet access and assistance to residents of cities and towns that are part of the Ting Fiber network, we have set up free, fiber-fed, drive-up Wi-Fi hotspots. These hotspots enable those with no home Internet access, or insufficient access, to access critical services like online learning and telehealth services, work remotely, check in on and access vital health, government and other services and generally access information. These hotspots will remain in operation as long as they are needed and as long as it is safe and prudent to do so. We have not experienced any material resource constraints nor do we foresee requiring any material expenditures to continue to implement our business continuity plans described above. 29 Table of Contents Current and expected COVID-19 Impacts Financial & Operational Impacts Further to the below discussion within this Quarterly Report around the financial condition and results of operations for the current period financial results, the current impact from COVID-19 has been quite limited given the outbreak came late into the first quarter of 2020. Management continues to assess the impact on a daily basis and expects greater impact through the second quarter of 2020, should the COVID-19 pandemic persist. On a segment basis, our current assessment is as follows: Network Access Mobile Services : Both our Mobile Services businesses are completely online and do not rely on physical storefronts to attract or service customers needs. We are fully prepared to continue to provide uninterrupted services to our customers both now and into the future. Although COVID-19 has impacted the demand for our Mobile services, the overall impact on our financial results is not material, nor do we expect it to substantially worsen over the coming months. Ting Mobile, our primary post-paid Mobile Services brand is an MVNO operating across the United States. Through the end of March 2020, we saw a moderate drop in data usage by our customers, with some small uptake in voice and messaging usage. This is a direct result of social distancing measures enacted by state and local authorities across the United States. With our customers staying indoors and working from home, they now rely on an increased use of home Wi-Fi networks rather than mobile data services. This reduced usage has since stabilized and we expect it to only return to pre-pandemic usage levels once social distancing measures are relaxed. Additionally, nearing the end of March 2020, we saw an increased churn rate of low-margin business accounts as their own businesses came to a halt. Our core consumer customer base remains intact and experiencing normal levels of growth and churn. We do not foresee any increased risk of churn or collection risk given our current situation. Although we maintain minimum purchase guarantees with our MNOs, we do not expect any material shortfalls with respect to reduced usage from COVID-19. Roam Mobility, our niche prepaid Mobile Services brand that provides Mobile Services for people travelling within the United States and Worldwide has accounted for the majority of the negative financial impact caused by COVID-19. The business relies on global travel as a key factor in its success. With travel restrictions and border closures essentially resulting in the halt of business and leisure travel, we have seen new revenues for Roam Mobility trend toward zero through the end of March 2020. We will continue to refund or defer service plan start dates for existing customers. Management has taken substantial measures to reduce and eliminate any unnecessary costs within that business. The assets associated with Roam are insignificant to the consolidated Company total. We continue to employ the small group of employees focused on the Roam Mobility brands. Given the current uncertainty around reopening of borders, easing of travel restrictions and consumers level of comfort with business and leisure travel in a post pandemic world, we believe we will earn little to none of the $1.0 million of the second quarter 2020 revenues that we had previously forecasted for this business prior to onset of the COVID-19 pandemic. Network Access Other Services : As discussed above, upon news of the COVID-19 outbreak, we took the major step to cancel and reschedule all in-home installation and service appointments across our Ting Fiber footprint. Since then, the Ting Internet team has begun to rollout a smart-install solution for our employees and customers alike. Although new customer installations have slowed, our existing customer base continues to provide recurring revenue for us to support this business. This is aided by our most recent acquisition of Cedar, which increased our revenues significantly in period. The negative impact posed by the COVID-19 outbreak is largely operational in nature as we have experienced delayed construction in parts of our Ting Fiber footprint and a halting of new installations for a period of time across our entire footprint. Those towns and cities that are serviceable for new customers addresses will now have a reduced level of installation and setup relative to pre-pandemic conditions. We expect this segment to grow at a reduced rate until such time that this pandemic subsides and social distancing measures are relaxed. Domain Services: Domain Services are foundational to the functioning of the Internet. As discussed above, services like individual and wholesale domain names, email and hosting do not rely on in-person interaction or the supply chain in the same way physical products and services do. We have not experienced any COVID-19 related impacts, either financially or operationally for Domains related services, across our OpenSRS, Enom, Ascio, EPAG & Hover brands. Our results of operations for the current period financial results are in line with managements expectation for the period given product, customer mix and current brand trajectories. We will continue to monitor the impact but do not foresee any negative financial or operational impacts associated with this segment. 30 Table of Contents Liquidity & Financial Resource Impacts For a complete assessment of our liquidity and covenant positions please reference the relevant discussions within this Quarterly Report. We have experienced no significant change to our liquidity position or credit risk as a result of the financial and operational impacts related to COVID-19, as discussed above. Our cost or access to funding sources has not changed and is not reasonably likely to change in the near future as a result of the pandemic. Our sources and uses of cash have not been materially impacted and there is no known material uncertainty about our ongoing ability meet covenants or repayment terms of our credit agreements at this time. Internal Controls over Financial Reporting Tucows has long encouraged a culture of remote work even prior to COVID-19. Our financial reporting systems and our internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure