ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS The following discussion and analysis should be read together with the audited consolidated financial statements of Tucows Inc. (the Company, we, us or our) for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 and accompanying notes set forth elsewhere in this report. All financial information is presented in U.S. dollars. Some of the statements set forth in this section are forward-looking statements relating to our future results of operations. Accordingly, reference is made to Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements, which describe important factors that could cause actual results to differ from expectations and non-historical information contained herein. OVERVIEW Our mission is to provide simple useful services that help people unlock the power of the Internet. We accomplish this by reducing the complexity our customers experience as they access the Internet (at home or on the go) or Internet services such as domain name registration, email, mobile telephony services and other Internet services. We are organized and managed based on two service offerings, Network Access Services and Domain Services, which are differentiated primarily by their services, the markets they serve and the regulatory environments in which they operate. Our principal place of business is located in Canada. We manage our business as segments, Network Access Services, which primarily derives revenue from the sale of retail mobile phones and services to individuals and small businesses, and Domain Services, which derives revenue from three distinct service offerings Wholesale, Retail and Portfolio. Our management regularly reviews our operating results on a consolidated basis, principally to make decisions about how we utilize our resources and to measure our consolidated operating performance. To assist us in forecasting growth and to help us monitor the effectiveness of our operational strategies, our management regularly reviews revenue and cost of revenues for each of our service offerings in order to gain more depth and understanding of the key business metrics driving our business. Accordingly, we report Network Access Services and Domain Services revenue and cost of revenues separately. For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, we reported revenue of $173 million, $148 million and $130 million, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, our OpenSRS domain service offering accounted for 49%, 59% and 67% of our total revenue, respectively. Network Access Services Network Access Services derives revenue from the sale of retail mobile phones and services to individuals and small businesses through the Ting website, as well as provides high speed Internet access, Internet hosting and network consulting services to customers in select cities in the United States. Ting provides customers with access to our provisioning and management tools to enable them, via the ting.com website, to purchase retail mobile phones and services nationally and fixed Internet access in select cities. Revenues are generated in the United States and are provided on a monthly basis with no fixed contract term. As of December 31, 2015, Ting managed mobile telephony services for approximately 128,000 subscribers and had approximately 202,000 devices under management. Our primary distribution channel for Network Access Services is through our website, ting.com. We strive to meet or exceed our Network Access Service customers needs by providing them with superior services, easy-to-use interfaces and proactive and attentive customer service. Domain Services Domain Services include wholesale and retail domain name registration services; value added services and portfolio services. We earn revenues primarily from the registration fees charged to resellers in connection with new, renewed and transferred domain name registrations. In addition, we earn revenues from the sale of retail Internet domain name registration and email services to individuals and small businesses; and by making our portfolio of domain names available for sale or lease. Domain Services revenues are attributed to the country in which the contract originates, primarily Canada. Our primary distribution channel is a global network of more than 13,000 resellers in more than 100 countries who typically provide their customers, the end-users of the Internet, with a critical component for establishing and maintaining an online presence. Our primary focus is serving the needs of this network of resellers by providing superior services, easy-to-use interfaces, proactive and attentive customer service, reseller-oriented technology and agile design and development processes. We seek to provide superior customer service to our resellers by anticipating their business needs and technical requirements. This includes providing easy-to-use interfaces that enable resellers to quickly and easily integrate our services into their individual business processes, and offering brandable end-user interfaces that emphasize simplicity and visual appeal. We also provide second tier support to our resellers by email and phone in the event resellers experience issues or problems with our services. In addition, our Network Operating Center provides proactive support to our resellers by monitoring all services and network infrastructure to address deficiencies before customer services are impacted. 36 We believe that the underlying platforms for our services are among the most mature, reliable and functional reseller-oriented provisioning and management platforms in our industry, and we continue to refine, evolve and improve these services for both resellers and end-users. Our business model is characterized primarily by non-refundable, up-front payments, which lead to recurring revenue and positive operating cash flow. Wholesale, primarily branded as OpenSRS, derives revenue from its Domain Service and from providing Value-Added Services. The OpenSRS Domain Service manages 13.3 million domain names under the Tucows ICANN registrar accreditation and for other registrars under their own accreditations. Value-Added Services include hosted email which provides email delivery and webmail access to millions of mailboxes, Internet security services, publishing tools and reseller billing services. All of these services are made available to end-users through a network of over 13,000 web hosts, Internet service providers (ISPs), and other resellers around the world. In addition, we also derive revenue from the bulk sale of domain names and advertising from the OpenSRS Domain Expiry Stream. Retail, primarily our Hover website, derives revenues from the sale of domain name registration and email services to individuals and small businesses. Retail also includes our Personal Names Service based on over 36,000 surname domains that allows roughly two-thirds of Americans to purchase an email address based on their last name. Portfolio generates advertising revenue from our domain name portfolio and from our advertising-supported website, tucows.com. We also generate revenue by offering names in our domain portfolio for resale via our reseller network and other channels. In addition, we generate revenue from the payments for the sale of rights to gTLD strings under the New gTLD Program. KEY BUSINESS METRICS We regularly review a number of business metrics, including the following key metrics to, assist us in evaluating our business, measure the performance of our business model, identify trends impacting our business, determine resource allocations, formulate financial projections and make strategic business decisions. The following tables sets forth, the key business metrics which we believe are the primary indicators of our performance for the periods presented: Adjusted EBITDA Tucows reports all financial information required in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, to assist financial statement users in an assessment of our historical performance, we typically disclose and discuss a non-GAAP financial measure, adjusted EBITDA, on investor conference calls and related events that exclude certain non-cash and other charges as we believe that the non-GAAP information enhances investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of our operating results from period to period. The Company believes that the provision of this supplemental non-GAAP measure allows investors to evaluate the operational and financial performance of the Company's core business using the same evaluation measures that management uses. Adjusted EBITDA is one of the primary measures the Company uses for planning and budgeting purposes, incentive compensation and to monitor and evaluate our financial and operating results. Since adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial performance measure, our calculation of adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to other similarly titled measures of other companies; and should not be considered in isolation, as a substitute for, or superior to measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. Because adjusted EBITDA is calculated before recurring cash charges, including interest expense and taxes, and is not adjusted for capital expenditures or other recurring cash requirements of the business, it should not be considered as a measure of discretionary cash available to invest in the growth of the business. See the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows included in the attached financial statements. Non-GAAP financial measures do not reflect a comprehensive system of accounting, differ from GAAP measures with the same captions and may differ from non-GAAP financial measures with the same or similar captions that are used by other companies and/or analysts and may differ from period to period. However, the Company's management compensates for these limitations by providing the relevant disclosure of the items excluded in the calculation of adjusted EBITDA to net income based on U.S. GAAP, which should be considered when evaluating the Company's results. Tucows strongly encourages investors to review its financial information in its entirety and not to rely on a single financial measure. 37 Adjusted EBITDA excludes depreciation, amortization of intangibles, income tax provision, interest expense, interest income, stock-based compensation, asset impairment, net deferred revenue, which comprises the change in deferred revenue, net of prepaid domain name registry and other Internet services fees, to reflect the material amount of cash we collect and pay for domain registrations and other Internet services at the time of activation, losses from foreign currency transactions and infrequently occurring items. Losses from foreign currency transactions, which removes the effect of our foreign exchange contracts, comprise the realized gains/losses from all foreign currency contracts, both hedged and unhedged; the unrealized effect of the change in the mark-to-market values on outstanding unhedged foreign currency contracts, as well as the unrealized effect from the translation of monetary accounts denominated in non-U.S. dollars to U.S. dollars . The following table reconciles net income to adjusted EBITDA (dollars in 000s): Year ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 Net income for the period $ 11,374 $ 6,374 $ 4,181 Depreciation of property and equipment 1,404 927 843 Amortization of intangible assets 263 596 960 Impairment of indefinite life intangible assets 206 577 Interest expense, net 159 206 355 Provision for income taxes 6,570 3,055 1,619 Change in net deferred revenue (1) 1,084 863 425 Stock-based compensation 526 543 431 Losses from foreign currency transactions (2) 3,618 1,612 769 Other income (86 ) - - Adjusted EBITDA $ 25,118 $ 14,753 $ 9,583 (1) Net deferred revenue comprises the change in deferred revenue, net of prepaid domain name registry and other Internet services fees, to reflect the material amount of cash we collect and pay for domain registrations and other Internet services at the time of activation. Net deferred revenue for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 includes a benefit of $0.1 million as a result of the translation of deferred revenue and prepaid domain name registry and other Internet services fees to our reporting currency of US dollars. Net deferred revenue for the year ended December 31, 2013 , includes a loss of $0.1 million as a result of the translation of deferred revenue and prepaid domain name registry and other Internet services fees to our reporting currency of US dollars. (2) Previously reported amounts have been adjusted by $477,000, $287,000 and 139,000, respectively, to correct immaterial calculation errors. Adjusted EBITDA for the year ended December 31, 2015 increased by $10.4 million, or 70% to $25.1 million when compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. Adjusted EBITDA for the years ended December 31, 2014 increased by $5.2 million, or 54% to $14.8 million when compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. These year-on-year increases in adjusted EBITDA were primarily driven by the growth in Ting mobile services. Network Access Services Year ended December 31, (1) 2015 2014 2013 (in 000s) Ting subscribers under management 128,000 94,000 48,000 Ting devices under management 202,000 147,000 74,000 (1) For a discussion of these period to period changes in subscribers and devices under management and how they impacted our financial results, see the Net Revenue discussion below. 38 Domain Services Year ended December 31, (1) 2015 2014 2013 (in 000s) Total new, renewed and transferred-in domain name registrations provisioned 9,133 9,110 9,076 Domain names under management Registered using the Tucows Registrar Accreditation 10,173 10,200 10,630 Registered using our Resellers Registrar Accreditations 3,163 3,329 3,564 Total domain names under management 13,336 13,529 14,194 (1) For a discussion of these period to period changes in the domains provisioned and domains under management and how they impacted our financial results see the Net revenue discussion below. OPPORTUNITIES, CHALLENGES AND RISKS As a MVNO our Ting service is reliant on our Mobile Network Operators ("MNOs") providing competitive networks. Our MNOs each continue to invest in network expansion and modernization to improve their competitive positions. Deployment of new and sophisticated technology on a very large scale entails risks. Should they fail to implement, maintain and expand their network capacity and coverage, adapt to future changes in technologies and continued access to and deployment of adequate spectrum successfully, our ability to provide wireless services to our subscribers, to retain and attract subscribers and to maintain and grow our subscriber revenues could be adversely affected, which would negatively impact our operating margins. Ting has also enjoyed rapid growth in its first four years of operation. During this growth phase we have been able to continue to grow gross customer additions and maintain a consistent churn rate, which has allowed us to maintain net new customer additions despite the impact of churn on a fast growing customer base. We expect price competition to grow more intense in the industry which could result in increased customer churn or reductions of customer acquisition rates either of which could result in slower growth rates or in certain cases, our ability to maintain growth. The communications industry continues to compete on the basis of network reach and performance, types of services and devices offered, and price. The increased competition in the market for Internet services in recent years, which we expect will continue to intensify in the short and long term, poses a material risk for us. As new registrars are introduced, existing competitors expand service offerings and competitors offer price discounts to gain market share, we face pricing pressure, which can adversely impact our revenues and profitability. To address these risks, we have focused on leveraging the scalability of our infrastructure and our ability to provide proactive and attentive customer service to aggressively compete to attract new customers and to maintain existing customers. Substantially all of our Domain Services revenue is derived from domain name registrations and related value-added services from wholesale and retail customers using our provisioning and management platforms. The market for wholesale registrar services is both price sensitive and competitive and is evolving with the introduction of New gTLDs, particularly for large volume customers, such as large web hosting companies and owners of large portfolios of domain names. We have a relatively limited ability to increase the pricing of domain name registrations without negatively impacting our ability to maintain or grow our customer base. Growth in our Domain Services revenue is dependent upon our ability to continue to attract and retain customers by maintaining consistent domain name registration and value-added service renewal rates and to grow our customer relationships through refining, evolving and improving our provisioning platforms and customer service for both resellers and end-users. In addition, we also generate revenue through pay-per-click advertising and the sale of names from our portfolio of domain names and through the OpenSRS Domain Expiry Stream. The revenue associated with names sales and advertising has recently experienced flat to declining trends due to the uncertainty around the implementation of ICANNs New gTLD Program, lower traffic and advertising yields in the marketplace, which we expect to continue. From time-to-time certain of our vendors provide us with market development funds to expand or maintain the market position for their services. Any decision by these vendors to cancel or amend these programs for any reason may result in payments in future periods not being commensurate with what we have achieved during past periods. Sales of domain names from our domain portfolio have a negative impact on our advertising revenue as these names are no longer available for advertising purposes. In addition, the timing of larger domain names portfolio sales is unpredictable and may lead to significant quarterly and annual fluctuations in our Portfolio revenue. 39 Our revenue is primarily realized in U.S. dollars and a major portion of our operating expenses are paid in Canadian dollars. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar may have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results from operations. In particular, we may be adversely affected by a significant weakening of the U.S. dollar against the Canadian dollar on a quarterly and an annual basis. Our policy with respect to foreign currency exposure is to manage our financial exposure to certain foreign exchange fluctuations with the objective of neutralizing some or all of the impact of foreign currency exchange movements by entering into foreign exchange forward contracts to mitigate the exchange risk on a portion of our Canadian dollar exposure. We may not always enter into such forward contracts and such contracts may not always be available and economical for us. Additionally, the forward rates established by the contracts may be less advantageous than the market rate upon settlement. Net Revenues Network Access Services Mobile and Other Services We derive revenue from Ting's sale of retail mobile phones and services to individuals and small businesses nationally as well as providing fixed high speed internet access in select cities including Westminster, Maryland and Charlottesville, Virginia along with Internet hosting and network consulting services to customers in Charlottesville, Virginia. Ting provides customers with access to our provisioning and management tools to enable them, via the ting.com website, to purchase retail mobile phones and services nationally and fixed Internet access in select cities. Revenues are generated in the United States and are provided on a monthly basis with no fixed contract term. Domain Services Wholesale - OpenSRS Domain Service Historically, our OpenSRS Domain Service has constituted the largest portion of our business and encompasses all of our services as an accredited registrar related to the registration, renewal, transfer and management of domain names. In addition, this service fuels other revenue categories as it often is the initial service for which a reseller will engage us, enabling us to follow on with other services and allowing us to add to our portfolio by purchasing names registered through us upon their expiration. We receive revenues for each domain registration or other Internet service processed through our system by Service Providers. Our domain service revenue is principally comprised of registration fees charged to resellers in connection with new, renewed and transferred domain name registrations. The registration fee provides our resellers with access to our provisioning and management tools to enable them to register and administer domain names and access to additional services like WHOIS privacy and DNS (Domain Name System) services, enhanced domain name suggestion tools and access to our premium domain names. We earn fees in connection with each new, renewed and transferred-in registration and from providing provisioning services to resellers and registrars on a monthly basis. Domain registrations are generally purchased for terms of one to ten years, with a majority having a one-year term. Payments for the full term of all services, or billed revenue, are received at the time of activation of service and where appropriate are recorded as deferred revenue and are recognized as earned ratably over the term of provision of service. This accounting treatment reasonably approximates a recognition pattern that corresponds with the provision of the services during the quarters and the year. Wholesale OpenSRS Value-Added Services We derive revenue from our hosted email service through our global distribution network. Our hosted email service is offered on a per account, per month basis, and provides resellers with a reliable, scalable white label hosted email solution that can be customized to their branding and business model requirements. The hosted email service also includes spam and virus filtering on all accounts. End-users can access the hosted email service via a full-featured, multi-language web interface or through traditional desktop email clients, such as Microsoft Outlook or Apple Mail, using IMAP or POP/SMTP. We also derive revenue from other Value-Added Services primarily from provisioning SSL certificates. In addition, we derive revenue from the bulk sale of domain names and advertising from the OpenSRS Domain Expiry Stream. In addition, we provide billing, provisioning and customer care software solutions to ISPs through our Platypus billing software. Retail Hover We derive revenues from Hover's sale of retail Internet domain name registration and email services to individuals and small businesses. 40 Portfolio We derive revenue from our portfolio of domain names by displaying advertising on the domains and by making them available for sale or lease. When a user types one of these domain names into a web browser, they are presented with dynamically generated links that are pay-per-click advertising. Every time a user clicks on one of these links, it generates revenue for us through our partnership with third-parties who provide syndicated pay-per-click advertising (parked page vendors). Our parked page vendor relationships may not continue to generate levels of revenue commensurate with what we have achieved during past periods. Our ability to generate online advertising revenue from parked page vendors depends on their advertising networks' assessment of the quality and performance characteristics of Internet traffic resulting from online advertisements rendered on their websites. We have no control over any of these quality assessments. Parked page vendors may from time to time change their existing, or establish new, methodologies and metrics for valuing the quality of Internet traffic and delivering pay-per-click advertisements. Any changes in these methodologies, metrics and advertising technology platforms could decrease the amount of revenue that we generate from online advertisements. In addition, parked page vendors may at any time change the nature of the service or suspend the service that they provide to online advertisers. These types of changes or suspensions would adversely impact our ability to generate revenue from pay-per-click advertising. Portfolio names are sold through our premium domain name service, auctions or in negotiated sales. The size of our domain name portfolio varies over time, as we acquire and sell domains on a regular basis to maximize the overall value and revenue generation potential of our portfolio. In evaluating names for sale, we consider the potential foregone revenue from pay-per-click advertising, as well as other factors. The name will be offered for sale if, based on our evaluation, the name is deemed non-essential to our business and management believes that deriving proceeds from the sale is strategically more beneficial to the Company. In addition, we generate revenue from the payments for the sale of rights to gTLD strings under ICANNs New gTLD Program. Portfolio names that have been acquired from third-parties or through acquisition are included as intangible assets with indefinite lives on our consolidated balance sheet. We also generate advertising and other revenue through our ad-supported content site, tucows.com. This site primarily derives revenue from banner and text advertising. In addition, their revenue is derived from software developers who rely on us as a primary source of distribution. Software developers use our Author Resource Center to submit their products for inclusion on our site and to purchase promotional placements of their software. Critical Accounting Policies The following is a discussion of our critical accounting policies and methods. Critical accounting policies are defined as those that are both important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and are reflective of significant judgments and uncertainties made by management that may result in materially different results under different assumptions and conditions. Note 2 Significant accounting policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 (Fiscal 2015) included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report, includes further information on the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate the application of these estimates, including those related to the recoverability of investments, useful lives and valuation of intangible assets, valuation of goodwill, fair value measurement of assets and liabilities, product development costs, revenue recognition and deferred revenue and accounting for income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual amounts could differ significantly from these estimates. Revenue recognition policy We earn revenues from the following services: Network Access Services Ting (sale of retail mobile phones and services, fixed high speed internet access, Internet hosting and network consulting services); Domain Services - Wholesale (OpenSRS Domain Service and OpenSRS Value-Added Services); Domain Services - Retail (Hover) and Domain Services - Portfolio (Domain Portfolio monetization and sales). 41 Revenues derived from provisioning mobile phone service to individuals and small businesses through the Ting website, are recognized once services have been provided. This is based upon either usage (e.g., minutes of traffic/bytes of data processed), period of time (e.g., monthly service fees), various regulatory fees imposed on us by governmental authorities or other established fee schedules. Revenues for wireless services are billed based on the actual amount of monthly services utilized by each customer during their billing cycle on a postpaid basis. Our billing cycle for each customer is computed based on their activation date and not on our reporting period. As a result, we are required to estimate the amount of revenues earned but not billed from the end of each billing cycle to the end of each reporting period. These estimates are based on an assessment of the actual services rendered to each customer since the last billing period against our rate plans existing at that time. Adjustments affecting revenue may occur in periods subsequent to the billing period when the services were provided and are recognized as revenue during the current billing cycle. In addition, revenues associated with the sale of wireless devices and accessories to subscribers is recognized when title and risk of loss is transferred to the subscriber and shipment has occurred. Incentive marketing credits given to customers are recorded as a reduction of revenue. Revenues from providing fixed high speed internet access in select cities including Westminster, Maryland and Charlottesville, Virginia along with Internet hosting and network consulting services to customers in Charlottesville, Virginia are recognized when the related services are provided. With respect to the sale of domain registrations and other value-added services, we earn registration fees in connection with each new, renewed and transferred-in registration and from providing provisioning services to resellers and registrars on a monthly basis. We also enter into revenue arrangements in which a reseller may purchase a combination of services (multiple element arrangements). When a standalone selling price exists for each deliverable, we allocate revenue to each deliverable based on the relative selling price of each of the deliverables. The standalone selling price is established for each deliverable by the price charged when that deliverable is sold separately by the Company which is vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE). For arrangements where the Company does not sell the deliverable separately, the selling price is determined based on third party evidence (TPE), which is the price at which a competitor or third party sells the same or similar and largely interchangeable deliverable on a standalone basis. In instances where VSOE and TPE do not exist, the Company uses an estimated selling price for the deliverable, which is the price at which a company would transact if the deliverable were sold by the vendor regularly on a standalone basis. Payments for the full term of all services are received at the time of activation of service and where appropriate are recorded as deferred revenue and are recognized as earned ratably over the term of provision of service. This accounting treatment reasonably approximates a recognition pattern that corresponds with the provision of the services during the quarters and the year. Revenue from domain portfolio monetization and sales consists primarily of amounts earned for the transfer of rights to domain names and domain related rights that are currently under the Company's control. Collectability of revenues generated is subject to a high level of uncertainty; accordingly revenues are recognized only when payment is received, except where a fixed contract has been negotiated, in which case revenues are recognized once all the terms of the contract have been satisfied. We also generate advertising and other revenue through tucows.com as well as advertising revenue from our OpenSRS expired domain names and our domain name portfolio. Advertising and other revenue is recognized ratably over the period in which it is presented. To the extent that the minimum number of post-presentation impressions we guarantee to customers is not met, we defer recognition of the corresponding revenues until the guaranteed impressions are achieved. Revenue is also generated from vendors who are seeking to expand or maintain their services market position and is recognized once all the conditions have been met. Changes to contractual relationships in the future could impact the amounts and timing of revenue recognition. In those cases where payment is not received at the time of sale, additional conditions for recognition of revenue apply. The conditions are (i) that the collection of sales proceeds is reasonably assured and (ii) that we have no further performance obligations. We record expected refunds, rebates and credit card charge-backs as a reduction of revenues at the time of the sale based on historical experiences and current expectations. Should these expectations not be met, adjustments will be required in future periods. We record provisions for possible uncollectible accounts receivable and contingent liabilities which may arise in the normal course of business. The allowance for doubtful accounts is calculated by taking into account factors such as our historical collection and write-off experience, the number of days the customer is past due and the status of the customer's account with respect to whether or not the customer is continuing to receive service. The contingent liability estimates are based on management's historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the reported amounts of liabilities and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Historically, credit losses have been within our expectations and the reserves we have established have been appropriate. However, we have, on occasion, experienced issues which have led to accounts receivable not being fully collected. Should these issues occur more frequently, additional provisions may be required. 42 Valuation of goodwill, intangible assets and long-lived assets The excess of the purchase price over the fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities from our acquisitions is recorded as goodwill. At December 31, 2015, we had $21.0 million (2014 - $18.9 million) in goodwill related to our acquisitions and $14.5 million (2014 - $14.2 million) in intangible assets comprised of indefinite life intangibles of $13.3 million (2014 - $13.5 million) and finite life intangible assets of $1.2 million (2014 - $0.7 million).We report our financial results as three operating segments, Domain Services with three distinct service offerings, being wholesale and retail domain name registration services, value added services and portfolio, and Network Access - Mobile Services which derives revenue from the sale of retail mobile phones and telephony services, as well as Network Access Other Services which derives revenue from fixed high speed internet access, Internet hosting and network consulting services. Ninety percent of goodwill relates to our Domain Services operating segment and 10% of goodwill relates to our Network Access Other Services operating segment. With the exception of the goodwill relating to the acquisition of the hosted messaging assets of Critical Path and the BRI Group, all goodwill recorded in relation to our acquisitions is not deductible for tax purposes. Ninety-five percent of intangible assets relate to our Domain Services operating segment and 5% of intangible assets relate to our Network Access Other Services operating segment. We account for goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets in accordance with FASBs authoritative guidance, which requires that goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets are not amortized, but are subject to an annual impairment test. We complete our impairment test on an annual basis, during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year, or more frequently, if changes in facts and circumstances indicate that impairment indicators are present. Our indefinite life intangible assets consist of surname domain names and direct navigation domain names. In order to maintain our rights to these domain names, we pay annual renewal fees to the applicable domain name registries. During the year we decided not to renew certain under-performing domain names and an impairment charge of $0.2 million was recorded during the fiscal year. With regard to long-lived assets comprised of property and equipment and finite life intangible assets, we continually evaluate whether events or circumstances have occurred that indicate the remaining estimated useful lives of our definite-life intangible assets may warrant revision or whether the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable and exceed their fair value. We use an estimate of the related undiscounted cash flows over the remaining life of the asset in measuring whether the asset is recoverable. There was no impairment recorded on definite-life intangible assets and property and equipment during 2015 and 2014. We performed a qualitative assessment to determine whether there were events or circumstances which would lead to a determination, whether it is more likely than not, that goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets have been impaired. In performing the qualitative testing, we made an evaluation of the impact of various factors to the expected future cash flows attributable to our operating segments and to the assumed discount rate which would be used to present value those cash flows. Consideration was given to factors such as macro-economic, industry and market conditions including the capital markets and the competitive environment amongst others. There were no indications of impairment under the qualitative approach. The analysis was consistent with the approach we utilized in our analysis performed in prior years. Any changes to our key assumptions about our businesses and our prospects, or changes in market conditions, could cause the fair value of our operating segments to fall below its carrying value, resulting in a potential impairment charge. In addition, changes in our organizational structure or how our management allocates resources and assesses performance, could result in a change in our operating segments, requiring a reallocation and updated impairment analysis of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets. A goodwill or intangible asset impairment charge could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements because of the significance of goodwill and intangible assets to our consolidated balance sheet. There was no further impairment of goodwill or intangible assets as a result of the annual impairment tests completed during the fourth quarters of 2015 and 2014. Accounting for income taxes We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our uncertain tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. We apply a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if on the weight of available evidence it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon settlement. Although we believe we have adequately reserved for our uncertain tax positions, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate based on new information that may become available. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. 43 As we account for income taxes under the asset and liability method, we recognize deferred tax assets or liabilities for the anticipated future tax effects of temporary differences between the financial statement basis and the tax basis of our assets and liabilities. We record a valuation allowance to reduce the net deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that the benefit from the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, historical and future levels of income, expectations and risks associated with estimates of future taxable income and ongoing tax planning strategies are considered. In the event that it is determined that the deferred tax assets to be realized in the future would be in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance would be recorded. This adjustment would increase income in the period that such determination was made. Likewise, should it be determined that all or part of a recorded net deferred tax asset would not be realized in the future, an adjustment to increase the deferred tax asset valuation allowance would be charged to income in the period that such determination would be made. On a periodic basis, we evaluate the probability that our deferred tax asset balance will be recovered to assess its realizability. To the extent we believe it is more likely than not that some portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized, we will increase the valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets. Realization of our deferred tax assets is dependent primarily upon future taxable income. Our judgments regarding future profitability may change due to future market conditions, changes in U.S. or international tax laws and other factors. These changes, if any, may require possible material adjustments to these deferred tax assets, impacting net income or net loss in the period when such determinations are made. Recently Issued Accounting Standards See Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report for information regarding recently issued accounting standards. 44 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2015 AS COMPARED TO THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2014 NET REVENUES The following table presents our net revenues, by revenue source: Year ended December 31, 2015 2014 Network Access Services: Mobile Services 58,889,922 35,887,005 Other Services 3,288,711 - Total Network Access Services 62,178,633 35,887,005 Domain Services: Wholesale Domain Services $ 84,982,007 $ 86,640,949 Value Added Services 9,297,943 9,654,734 Total Wholesale 94,279,950 96,295,683 Retail 12,341,013 10,417,746 Portfolio 4,139,903 5,066,673 Total Domain Services 110,760,866 111,780,102 $ 172,939,499 $ 147,667,107 Increase over prior period $ 25,272,392 Increase - percentage 17 % The following table presents our revenues, by revenue source, as a percentage of total revenues: Year ended December 31, 2015 2014 Network Access Services: Mobile Services 35 % 24 % Other Services 2 % 0 % Total Network Access Services 37 % 24 % Domain Services: Wholesale Domain Services 49 % 59 % Value Added Services 5 % 7 % Total Wholesale 54 % 66 % Retail 7 % 7 % Portfolio 2 % 3 % Total Domain Services 63 % 76 % 100 % 100 % Total net revenues for Fiscal 2015 increased by $25.3 million, or 17%, to $172.9 million from $147.7 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014 (Fiscal 2014). Deferred revenue from domain name registrations and other Internet services at December 31, 2015 increased to $71.6 million from $71.1 million at December 31, 2014. No customer accounted for more than 10% of revenue during Fiscal 2015 and, at December 31, 2015, no customer accounted for more than 10% of accounts receivable. Significant management judgment is required at the time of recording of revenue to assess whether the collection of the resulting receivables is reasonably assured. On an ongoing basis, we assess the ability of our customers to make required payments. Based on this assessment, we expect the carrying amount of our outstanding receivables, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, to be fully collected. Network Access Services Mobile and Other Services Net revenues from Ting mobile phone equipment and services and the provisioning of high speed Internet access, Internet hosting and network consulting services for Fiscal 2015, as compared to Fiscal 2014, increased by $26.3 million or 73% to $62.2 million. This increase primarily reflects the impact the larger Ting subscriber base is having on Ting mobile service revenue which grew by $23.0 million to $58.9 million as compared to Fiscal 2014. In addition, we generated $3.3 million in revenue in connection with the provisioning of high speed Internet access, Internet hosting and network consulting services during Fiscal 2015. As of December 31, 2015, Ting had 128,000 subscribers and 202,000 mobile devices under its management compared to 94,000 subscribers and 147,000 devices under management as of December 31, 2014. 45 Domain Services Wholesale During Fiscal 2015, domain services revenue decreased by $1.6 million to $85.0 million and the number of transactions from all new, renewed and transferred-in domain name registrations that we processed remained relatively flat at 9.1 million when compared to Fiscal 2014. Domain services revenue and transaction volumes continue to be impacted by the ongoing migration of a few large, low margin customers. These customers have been moving their domain management and domain transaction processing to their own accreditations and in-house systems. We anticipate that the number of new, renewed and transferred-in domain name registrations will continue to be impacted by decisions that large volume customers make with regard to acquiring their own accreditations , as well as the impact on the market, of the significant expansion in the number of New gTLDs added pursuant to the implementation of ICANNs New gTLD Program. While we anticipate that the number of new, renewed and transferred-in domain name registrations will continue to incrementally increase in the long term, the volatility of these factors could affect the growth of domain names that we manage. Primarily for the same factors impacting domain transactions mentioned above, total domains that we manage under our own accreditation remained relatively unchanged at 10.2 million as of December 31, 2015, when compared to December 31, 2014. Also, as of December 31, 2015, total domains that we manage on behalf of other accredited registrars who use our technical systems to process domain registrations with their own accreditation, decreased to 3.1 million when compared to 3.3 million at the end of December 31, 2014, primarily the result of a single customer that transitioned their domain management platform to an in-house system in Fiscal 2014. Value-Added Services decreased by $0.4 million to $9.3 million when compared to Fiscal 2014. This decrease was largely due to the $0.6 million decrease in revenue from pay-per-click advertising and the sale of names through the OpenSRS Domain Expiry Stream. The revenue associated with names sales and advertising has experienced flat to declining trends due to the uncertainty around the implementation of ICANNs New gTLD Program, lower traffic and advertising yields in the marketplace, which we expect to continue. Retail Net revenues from Retail for Fiscal 2015, as compared to Fiscal 2014, increased by $1.9 million to $12.3 million. This increase was largely due to the success that our retail marketing initiatives and improved websites are having on our ability to attract new customers and retain existing ones for Hover. Portfolio Net revenues from Portfolio for Fiscal 2015, as compared to Fiscal 2014, decreased by $1.0 million to $4.1 million. The decrease is primarily related to lower sales of big ticket domains and a decrease in online advertising revenue largely due to the flat to declining trends as a result of factors such as uncertainty around the impact of ICANNs New gTLD Program and lower traffic and advertising yields that this market is experiencing. COST OF REVENUES Network Access Services Mobile and Other Services Cost of revenues for network access services includes the costs of provisioning mobile services (primarily our customers' voice, messaging, data usage provided by our MNOs), the costs of providing mobile phone hardware (the cost of mobile phone devices and SIM cards sold to our customers, order fulfillment related expenses, and inventory write-downs) as well as the costs for provisioning high speed Internet access (network access fees, software licenses), and any direct costs incurred in providing web hosting and IT consulting services. Wholesale OpenSRS Domain Service Cost of revenues for domain registrations represents the amortization of registry fees on a basis consistent with the recognition of revenues from our customers, namely ratably over the term of provision of the service. Registry fees, the primary component of cost of revenues, are paid in full when the domain is registered, and are initially recorded as prepaid domain registry fees. This accounting treatment reasonably approximates a recognition pattern that corresponds with the provision of the services during the period. Market development funds that do not meet the criteria for revenue recognition under ASC 605-50 Customer Payments and Incentives, are reflected as cost of goods sold and are recognized as earned. 46 Value-Added Services Costs of revenues for Value-Added Services include licensing and royalty costs related to the provisioning of certain components of related to hosted email, fees paid to third-party service providers, primarily for trust certificates and for printing services in connection with Platypus. Fees payable for trust certificates are amortized on a basis consistent with the provision of service, generally one year, while email hosting fees and monthly printing fees are included in cost of revenues in the month they are incurred. Retail Costs of revenues for our provision and management of Internet services through our retail site, Hover.com, include the amortization of registry fees on a basis consistent with the recognition of revenues from our customers, namely ratably over the term of provision of the service. Registry fees, the primary component of cost of revenues, are paid in full when the domain is registered, and are recorded as prepaid domain registry fees. Portfolio Costs of revenues for our Portfolio represent the amortization of registry fees for domains added to our portfolio over the renewal period, which is generally one year, the value attributed under intangible assets to any domain name sold and any impairment charges that may arise from our assessment of our domain name intangible assets. As the total names in our portfolio continue to grow, this cost will become a more significant component of our cost of revenues. Payments for domain registrations are payable for the full term of service at the time of activation of service and are recorded as prepaid domain registry fees and are expensed ratably over the renewal term. Costs of revenues for our larger ad-supported content site include the fees paid to third-party service providers, primarily for digital certificates sold through our content sites and content license fees. Network expenses Network expenses include personnel and related expenses, depreciation and amortization, communication costs, equipment maintenance, stock-based compensation and employee and related costs directly associated with the management and maintenance of our network. Communication costs include bandwidth, co-location and provisioning costs we incur to support the supply of all our services. 47 The following table presents our cost of revenues, by revenue source: Year ended December 31, 2015 2014 Network Access Services: Mobile Services 32,615,415 21,870,780 Other Services 1,627,439 - Total Network Access Services 34,242,854 21,870,780 Domain Services: Wholesale Domain Services $ 70,763,964 $ 72,353,061 Value Added Services 1,892,867 2,211,085 Total Wholesale 72,656,831 74,564,146 Retail 5,473,102 4,539,439 Portfolio 717,183 886,637 Total Domain Services 78,847,116 79,990,222 Network Expenses: Network, other costs 5,464,777 4,554,635 Network, depreciation and amortization costs 1,183,509 699,670 6,648,286 5,254,305 $ 119,738,256 $ 107,115,307 Increase over prior period $ 12,622,949 Increase - percentage 12 % The following table presents our cost of revenues, as a percentage of total cost of revenues for the periods presented: Year ended December 31, 2015 2014 Network Access Services: Mobile Services 27 % 20 % Other Services 1 % 0 % Total Network Access Services 28 % 20 % Domain Services: Wholesale Domain Services 59 % 68 % Value Added Services 2 % 2 % Total Wholesale 61 % 70 % Retail 5 % 4 % Portfolio 1 % 1 % Total Domain Services 67 % 75 % Network Expenses: Network, other costs 4 % 4 % Network, depreciation and amortization costs 1 % 1 % 5 % 5 % 100 % 100 % Total cost of revenues for Fiscal 2015 increased by $12.6 million, or 12%, to $119.7 million from $107.1 million in Fiscal 2014. This increase was primarily the result of increased network access service expenses due to the impact Tings larger subscriber base is having on service costs. Prepaid domain registration and other Internet services fees as of December 31, 2015 decreased by $0.7 million, or 1%, to $55.7 million from $56.4 million at December 31, 2014. Network Access Services Mobile and Other Services Cost of revenues from Ting mobile phone equipment and services and the provisioning of high speed Internet access, Internet hosting and network consulting services for Fiscal 2015, as compared to Fiscal 2014, increased by $12.3 million or 57% to $34.2 million. This increase primarily reflects the impact the larger subscriber base had on Ting mobile service cost of revenue which grew by $9.0 million to $25.1 million as compared to Fiscal 2014. In addition, in Fiscal 2015, we incurred costs of $1.6 million in provisioning high speed Internet access, Internet hosting and network consulting services during Fiscal 2015. 48 Domain Services Wholesale Costs for Wholesale for Fiscal 2015 decreased by $1.9 million to $72.7 million, when compared to Fiscal 2014. This reduction in costs is primarily the result of an ongoing shift in product mix to higher margin domain services and with growth in the core wholesale domain services business being off-set with a few large clients migrating their business to their own accreditations. Retail Costs for Retail for Fiscal 2015 increased by $1.0 million, to $5.5 million, when compared to Fiscal 2014. This increase resulted primarily from the increased cost of additional volume in Hover services. Portfolio Costs for Portfolio decreased by $0.2 million for Fiscal 2015, to $0.7 million when compared to Fiscal 2014, primarily the result of our decision not to renew certain domain names acquired in the June 2006 acquisition of Mailbank.com Inc. as described under impairment of indefinite life intangible assets below. Network Expenses Network costs for Fiscal 2015 increased by $1.4 million to $6.6 million when compared to Fiscal 2014. This increase is largely the result of the additional costs we incur as a result of our now providing high speed Internet access, Internet hosting and network consulting services to customers. SALES AND MARKETING Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs. These costs include commissions and related expenses of our sales, product management, public relations, call center, support and marketing personnel. Other sales and marketing expenses include customer acquisition costs, advertising and other promotional costs. Year ended December 31, 2015 2014 Sales and marketing $ 18,537,810 $ 15,394,065 Increase over prior period $ 3,143,745 Increase - percentage 20 % Percentage of net revenues 11 % 10 % Sales and marketing expenses for Fiscal 2015 increased by $3.1 million, or 20%, to $18.5 million as compared to Fiscal 2014. This increase primarily related to workforce expenses incurred in connection with supporting and acquiring network access services customers. As we exceeded our adjusted EBITDA target set for Fiscal 2015 under our overachievement bonus program, sales and marketing workforce related costs in Fiscal 2015 also include a provision of $0.6 million due to this higher performance attainment. Excluding movements in exchange rates, we expect sales and marketing expenses for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2016 (Fiscal 2016) to increase in absolute dollars, as we adjust our marketing programs and sales and customer support personnel costs to support our network access services marketing and customer service needs. TECHNICAL OPERATIONS AND DEVELOPMENT Technical operations and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs and related expenses required to support the development of new or enhanced service offerings and the maintenance and upgrading of existing infrastructure. This includes expenses incurred in the research, design and development of technology that we use to register domain names, network access services, email, retail, domain portfolio and other Internet services, as well as to distribute our digital content services. Editorial costs relating to the rating and review of the software content libraries are included in the costs of product development. All technical operations and development costs are expensed as incurred. 49 Year ended December 31, 2015 2014 Technical operations and development $ 4,502,845 $ 4,305,715 Increase over prior period $ 197,130 Increase - percentage 5 % Percentage of net revenues 3 % 3 % Technical operations and development expenses for Fiscal 2015 increased by $0.2 million, or 5%, to $4.5 million when compared to Fiscal 2014. This increase resulted primarily from our exceeding our adjusted EBITDA target set for Fiscal 2015 under our overachievement bonus program and accruing a provision of $0.1 million due to this higher performance attainment. We expect technical operations and development expenses for Fiscal 2016, in absolute dollars, to increase slightly when compared to Fiscal 2015. GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE General and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and related costs for managerial and administrative personnel, fees for professional services, public listing expenses, rent, foreign exchange and other general corporate expenses. Year ended December 31, 2015 2014 General and administrative $ 10,661,949 $ 9,459,008 Increase over prior period $ 1,202,941 Increase - percentage 13 % Percentage of net revenues 6 % 6 % General and administrative expenses for Fiscal 2015 increased by $1.2 million, or 13%, to $10.7 million as compared to Fiscal 2014. This increase was primarily the result of $0.8 million in increased credit card processing fees and bad debts, largely related to the growth in network access services, increased workforce costs of $0.7 million, primarily the result of our exceeding our adjusted EBITDA target set for Fiscal 2015 under our overachievement bonus program and accruing a provision of $0.6 million due to this higher performance attainment and $0.4 million in increased public listing costs, supply and facility expenses as compared to Fiscal 2014. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $0.8 million in professional fees and stock based compensation. The decrease in professional fees resulted largely from additional SOX compliance work that we undertook for the first time in Fiscal 2014 as well as pre-acquisition due diligence and other costs of $0.2 million that related to a potential acquisition during Fiscal 2014 that was abandoned once we determined that its completion was not probable. The decrease in stock based compensation expense of $0.1 million was primarily as a result of our decision to implement a minimum vesting requirement to formulaic option grants to our non-employee directors under our 2006 Equity Compensation Plan. In addition, during Fiscal 2015, we realized a gain on foreign exchange of $3.0 million compared to a gain of $1.3 million during Fiscal 2014. These gains in turn were offset by our incurring a loss on foreign exchange revaluation of our foreign denominated assets and liabilities of $3.3 million during Fiscal 2015 compared to a loss of $1.6 million during Fiscal 2014. We expect general and administrative expenses for Fiscal 2016, in absolute dollars, to increase when compared to Fiscal 2015 largely to support the growth of our business. DEPRECIATION OF PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Year ended December 31, 2015 2014 Depreciation of property and equipment $ 259,307 $ 226,432 Increase over prior period $ 32,875 Increase - percentage 15 % Percentage of net revenues 0 % 0 % Depreciation costs for Fiscal 2015 increased slightly to $0.3 million when compared to $0.2 million for Fiscal 2014. 50 AMORTIZATION OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS Year ended December 31, 2015 2014 Amortization of intangible assets $ 224,206 $ 596,620 Decrease over prior period $ (372,414 ) Decrease - percentage (62 )% Percentage of net revenues 0 % 0 % Amortization of intangible assets consists of amounts arising in connection with the acquisition of EPAG Domainservices GmbH ("EPAG") in July 2011 and the acquisition of the BRI Group in February 2015. Amortization of intangible assets decreased by $0.4 million to $0.2 million, primarily the result of intangible assets related to Innerwise, Inc. being fully amortized in Fiscal 2014. Network rights, brand and customer relationships acquired in connection with the acquisitions of EPAG and the BRI Group are amortized on a straight-line basis over seven years. Technology acquired in connection with the acquisition of EPAG is amortized on a straight-line basis over two years. IMPAIRMENT OF INDEFINITE LIFE INTANGIBLE ASSETS Year ended December 31, 2015 2014 Impairment of indefinite life intangible assets $ 206,116 $ 577,145 (Decrease) increase over prior period $ (371,029 ) Decrease - percentage (64 )% Percentage of net revenues 0 % 0 % As part of our normal renewal process during Fiscal 2015 and Fiscal 2014, we assessed that certain domain names acquired in the June 2006 acquisition of Mailbank.com Inc. should not be renewed and were allowed to expire. Accordingly, these domain names, with a book value of $0.2 million and $0.6 million, respectively, have been written off and recorded as impairment of indefinite life intangible assets. LOSS ON CURRENCY FORWARD CONTRACTS Although our functional currency is the U.S. dollar, a major portion of our fixed expenses are incurred in Canadian dollars. Our goal with regard to foreign currency exposure is, to the extent possible , to achieve operational cost certainty, manage financial exposure to certain foreign exchange fluctuations and to neutralize some of the impact of foreign currency exchange movements. Accordingly, we enter into foreign exchange contracts to mitigate the exchange rate risk on portions of our Canadian dollar exposure. Year ended December 31, 2015 2014 Loss on currency forward contracts $ 792,900 $ 357,760 Increase over prior period $ 435,140 Increase - percentage 122 % Percentage of net revenues 0 % 0 % We have entered into certain forward exchange contracts that do not comply with the requirements of hedge accounting to meet a portion of our future Canadian dollar requirements through December 2016. The impact of the fair value adjustment on outstanding contracts for Fiscal 2015 was a net loss of $1.0 million compared to $0.1 million for Fiscal 2014. The impact of the fair value adjustment on outstanding contracts was increased by a realized gain upon settlement of currency forward contracts of $0.2 million for Fiscal 2015 compared to a realized loss of $0.3 million for Fiscal 2014. At December 31, 2015, our balance sheet reflects a derivative instrument liability of $2.0 million as a result of our existing foreign exchange contracts. Until their respective maturity dates, these contracts will fluctuate in value in line with movements in the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar. OTHER INCOME AND EXPENSES Year ended December 31, 2015 2014 Other income (expense), net $ (73,153 ) $ (206,730 ) Increase over prior period $ 133,577 Increase - percentage (65 )% Percentage of net revenues (0 )% (0 )% 51 Other expenses for Fiscal 2015 primarily consists of interest we incur in connection with our credit facility with the Bank of Montreal, which decreased by $0.1 million when compared with Fiscal 2014. As the terms of the Joint Marketing agreement that we entered into in February 2015 when we waived our rights under the proposed joint venture to operate the .online registry are satisfied, we are recognizing the positive financial contribution from the marketing agreement during Fiscal 2015. Accordingly, other expenses were partially offset by our recognizing $0.1 million in other income in accordance with the terms of the .online Joint Marketing agreement. INCOME TAXES The following table presents our provision for income taxes for the periods presented: Year ended December 31, 2015 2014 Provision for income taxes $ 6,569,227 $ 3,054,229 Increase in provision over prior period $ 3,514,998 Increase - percentage 115 % Effective tax rate 36.6 % 32.4 % We operate in various tax jurisdictions, and accordingly, our income is subject to varying rates of tax. Losses incurred in one jurisdiction cannot be used to offset income taxes payable in another jurisdiction. Our ability to use income tax loss carryforwards and future income tax deductions is dependent upon our operations in the tax jurisdictions in which such losses or deductions arise. Income taxes are computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement carrying values and tax base of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to affect taxable income. Valuation allowances are established when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. Fiscal 2015 includes tax on profits of $17.9 million compared to $9.4 million for Fiscal 2014.We had approximately $0.1 million of total gross unrecognized tax benefit as of December 31, 2015 and as of December 31, 2014, which if recognized would favorably affect our income tax rate in future periods. The unrecognized tax benefit relates primarily to prior year Pennsylvania state franchise taxes and other insignificant U.S. state taxes. A reconciliation of the federal statutory income tax rate to our effective tax rate is set forth in Note 10 Income Taxes of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) To mitigate the impact of the change in fair value of our foreign exchange contracts on our financial results, in October 2012 we begun applying hedge accounting for the majority of the contracts we need to meet our Canadian dollar requirements on a prospective basis. The impact of the fair value adjustment on outstanding hedged contracts for Fiscal 2015 was a net loss in other comprehensive income of $0.5 million compared to $0.4 million for Fiscal 2014. The following table presents other comprehensive income for the periods presented: Year ended December 31, 2015 2014 Comprehensive income $ (487,011 ) $ (377,460 ) Increase over prior period $ (109,551 ) Decrease - percentage 29 % Percentage of net revenues (0 )% (0 )% 52 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2014 AS COMPARED TO THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2013 NET REVENUES The following table presents our net revenues, by revenue source: Year ended December 31, 2014 2013 Network Access Services: Mobile Services 35,887,005 16,530,237 Other Services - - Total Network Access Services 35,887,005 16,530,237 Domain Services: Wholesale Domain Services $ 86,640,949 $ 87,294,173 Value Added Services 9,654,734 10,271,219 Total Wholesale 96,295,683 97,565,392 Retail 10,417,746 8,360,035 Portfolio 5,066,673 7,479,240 Total Domain Services 111,780,102 113,404,667 $ 147,667,107 $ 129,934,904 Increase over prior period $ 17,732,203 Increase - percentage 14 % The following table presents our revenues, by revenue source, as a percentage of total revenues: Year ended December 31, 2014 2013 Network Access Services: Mobile Services 24 % 13 % Other Services 0 % 0 % Total Network Access Services 24 % 13 % Domain Services: Wholesale Domain Services 59 % 67 % Value Added Services 7 % 8 % Total Wholesale 66 % 75 % Retail 7 % 6 % Portfolio 3 % 6 % Total Domain Services 76 % 87 % 100 % 100 % Total net revenues for Fiscal 2014 increased by $17.7 million, or 14%, to $147.7 million from $129.9 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 (Fiscal 2013). Deferred revenue from domain name registrations and other Internet services at December 31, 2014 increased to $71.1 million from $70.0 million at December 31, 2013. No customer accounted for more than 10% of revenue during Fiscal 2014 and, at December 31, 2014, no customer accounted for more than 10% of accounts receivable. Significant management judgment is required at the time of recording of revenue to assess whether the collection of the resulting receivables is reasonably assured. On an ongoing basis, we assess the ability of our customers to make required payments. Based on this assessment, we expect the carrying amount of our outstanding receivables, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, to be fully collected. 53 Network Access Services Ting Net revenues from Ting mobile phone services and equipment for Fiscal 2014, as compared to Fiscal 2013, increased by $19.4 million or 117% to $35.9 million. This increase primarily reflects the impact the larger subscriber base is having on service revenues. As of December 31, 2014, Ting had 94,000 subscribers and 147,000 mobile devices under its management compared to 48,000 subscribers and 74,000 devices under management as of December 31, 2013. Domain Services Wholesale During Fiscal 2014, domain services revenue decreased by $0.7 million to $86.6 million and the number of transactions from all new, renewed and transferred-in domain name registrations that we processed remained relatively flat at 9.1 million when compared to Fiscal 2013. Domain services revenue and transaction volumes continue to be impacted by the ongoing migration of a few large, low margin customers. These customers have been moving their domain management and domain transaction processing to their own accreditations and in-house systems. We anticipate that the number of new, renewed and transferred-in domain name registrations will continue to be impacted by decisions large volume customers make with regard to acquiring their own accreditations and the impact that the significant expansion of the number of New gTLDs implementation of ICANNs New gTLD Program will have on the market. While we anticipate that the number of new, renewed and transferred-in domain name registrations will continue to incrementally increase in the long term, the volatility of these factors could affect the growth of domain names that we manage. As of December 31, 2014, total domains that we manage under our own accreditation decreased to 10.2 million when compared to 10.6 million at December 31, 2013. This decrease in domains under management primarily resulted from the same factors impacting domain transactions mentioned above. Also, as of December 31, 2014, total domains that we manage on behalf of other accredited registrars who use our technical systems to process domain registrations with their own accreditation, decreased to 3.3 million when compared to 3.6 million at the end of December 31, 2013, primarily the result of a single customer that transitioned their domain management platform to an in-house system earlier this year. Value-Added Services decreased by $0.6 million to $9.7 million when compared to Fiscal 2013. This decrease was largely due to the $0.7 million decrease in revenue from pay-per-click advertising and the sale of names through the OpenSRS Domain Expiry Stream. The revenue associated with names sales and advertising has recently experienced flat to declining trends due to the uncertainty around the implementation of ICANNs New gTLD Program, lower traffic and advertising yields in the marketplace, which we expect to continue. Retail Net revenues from Retail for Fiscal 2014, as compared to Fiscal 2013, increased by $2.1 million to $10.4 million. This increase was largely due to the success that our retail marketing initiatives and improved websites are having on our ability to attract new customers and retain existing ones for Hover. Portfolio Net revenues from Portfolio for Fiscal 2014, as compared to Fiscal 2013, decreased by $2.4 million to $5.1 million from $7.5 million. This decrease was primarily related to gains we recognized from our withdrawal of our applications for .media and .marketing during the three months ended September 30, 2013 compared to the gains we recognized from participating in a confidential private auction for .group in July 2014. The market for monetization of domain names is rapidly evolving and is being impacted by uncertainty around the implementation of ICANNs New gTLD Program. In addition, Portfolio revenues were impacted by lower sales of big ticket domains as well as the impact the uncertainty around the implementation of ICANNs new gTLD Program is having on our pay-per-click advertising traffic. COST OF REVENUES Network Access Services Ting The costs of revenue for Ting's mobile phone service include hardware (the cost of devices sold to our customers) and network services (our customers' voice, messaging and data usage) provided by our Mobile Network Operator. 54 Domain Services Wholesale OpenSRS Domain Service Cost of revenues for domain registrations represents the amortization of registry fees on a basis consistent with the recognition of revenues from our customers, namely ratably over the term of provision of the service. Registry fees, the primary component of cost of revenues, are paid in full when the domain is registered, and are initially recorded as prepaid domain registry fees. This accounting treatment reasonably approximates a recognition pattern that corresponds with the provision of the services during the period. Market development funds that do not meet the criteria for revenue recognition under ASC 605-50 Customer Payments and Incentives, are reflected as cost of goods sold and are recognized as earned. Value-Added Services Costs of revenues for Value-Added Services include licensing and royalty costs related to the provisioning of certain components of related to hosted email, fees paid to third-party service providers, primarily for trust certificates and for printing services in connection with Platypus. Fees payable for trust certificates are amortized on a basis consistent with the provision of service, generally one year, while email hosting fees and monthly printing fees are included in cost of revenues in the month they are incurred. Retail Costs of revenues for our provision and management of Internet services through our retail site, Hover.com, include the amortization of registry fees on a basis consistent with the recognition of revenues from our customers, namely ratably over the term of provision of the service. Registry fees, the primary component of cost of revenues, are paid in full when the domain is registered, and are recorded as prepaid domain registry fees. Portfolio Costs of revenues for our Portfolio represent the amortization of registry fees for domains added to our portfolio over the renewal period, which is generally one year, the value attributed under intangible assets to any domain name sold and any impairment charges that may arise from our assessment of our domain name intangible assets. As the total names in our portfolio continue to grow, this cost will become a more significant component of our cost of revenues. Payments for domain registrations are payable for the full term of service at the time of activation of service and are recorded as prepaid domain registry fees and are expensed ratably over the renewal term. Costs of revenues for our larger ad-supported content site include the fees paid to third-party service providers, primarily for digital certificates sold through our content sites and content license fees. Network expenses Network expenses include personnel and related expenses, depreciation and amortization, communication costs, equipment maintenance, stock-based compensation and employee and related costs directly associated with the management and maintenance of our network. Communication costs include bandwidth, co-location and provisioning costs we incur to support the supply of all our services. 55 The following table presents our cost of revenues, by revenue source: Year ended December 31, 2014 2013 Network Access Services: Mobile Services 21,870,780 12,621,093 Other Services - - Total Network Access Services 21,870,780 12,621,093 Domain Services: Wholesale Domain Services $ 72,353,061 $ 73,468,824 Value Added Services 2,211,085 2,115,167 Total Wholesale 74,564,146 75,583,991 Retail 4,539,439 3,521,023 Portfolio 886,637 1,234,214 Total Domain Services 79,990,222 80,339,228 Network Expenses: Network, other costs 4,554,635 4,835,939 Network, depreciation and amortization costs 699,670 711,763 5,254,305 5,547,702 $ 107,115,307 $ 98,508,023 Increase over prior period $ 8,607,284 Increase - percentage 9 % The following table presents our cost of revenues, as a percentage of total cost of revenues for the periods presented: Year ended December 31, 2014 2013 Network Access Services: Mobile Services 20 % 13 % Other Services 0 % 0 % Total Network Access Services 20 % 13 % Domain Services: Wholesale Domain Services 68 % 74 % Value Added Services 2 % 2 % Total Wholesale 70 % 76 % Retail 4 % 4 % Portfolio 1 % 1 % Total Domain Services 75 % 81 % Network Expenses: Network, other costs 4 % 5 % Network, depreciation and amortization costs 1 % 1 % 5 % 6 % 100 % 100 % Total cost of revenues for Fiscal 2014 increased by $8.6 million, or 9%, to $107.1 million from $98.5 million in Fiscal 2013. This increase was primarily the result of increased network access service expenses due to the impact Tings larger subscriber base is having on service costs. Prepaid domain registration and other Internet services fees as of December 31, 2014 increased by $0.4 million, or 1%, to $56.4 million from $56.0 million at December 31, 2013. Network Access Services Ting Costs for Ting for Fiscal 2014 increased by $9.3 million, to $21.9 million when compared to Fiscal 2013. This increase primarily reflects the impact our larger subscriber base is having on service costs. 56 Domain Services Wholesale Costs for Wholesale for Fiscal 2014 decreased by $1.0 million to $74.6 million, when compared to Fiscal 2013. This reduction in costs is primarily the result of an ongoing shift in product mix to higher margin domain services and with growth in the core wholesale domain services business being off-set with a few large clients migrating their business to their own accreditations. Retail Costs for Retail for Fiscal 2014 increased by $1.0 million, to $4.5 million, when compared to Fiscal 2013. This increase resulted primarily from the increased cost of additional volume in Hover services. Portfolio Costs for Portfolio decreased by $0.3 million for Fiscal 2014, to $0.9 million when compared to Fiscal 2013, primarily the result of costs associated with our New gTLD applications incurred during Fiscal 2013. Network Expenses Network expenses decreased by $0.3 million for Fiscal 2014 to $5.3 million as compared to Fiscal 2013. These results reflect our improved efficiency in operating and managing our co-location facilities, which has also enabled us to decrease our capital spend on network equipment. SALES AND MARKETING Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs. These costs include commissions and related expenses of our sales, product management, public relations, call center, support and marketing personnel. Other sales and marketing expenses include customer acquisition costs, advertising and other promotional costs. Year ended December 31, 2014 2013 Sales and marketing $ 15,394,065 $ 12,141,036 Increase over prior period $ 3,253,029 Increase - percentage 27 % Percentage of net revenues 10 % 9 % Sales and marketing expenses for Fiscal 2014 increased by $3.3 million, or 27%, to $15.4 million as compared to Fiscal 2013. This increase primarily related to workforce and marketing expenses incurred in acquiring and servicing Ting subscribers. TECHNICAL OPERATIONS AND DEVELOPMENT Technical operations and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs and related expenses required to support the development of new or enhanced service offerings and the maintenance and upgrading of existing infrastructure. This includes expenses incurred in the research, design and development of technology that we use to register domain names, email, retail, domain portfolio and other Internet services, as well as to distribute our digital content services. Editorial costs relating to the rating and review of the software content libraries are included in the costs of product development. All technical operations and development costs are expensed as incurred. Year ended December 31, 2014 2013 Technical operations and development $ 4,305,715 $ 4,158,603 Increase over prior period $ 147,112 Increase - percentage 4 % Percentage of net revenues 3 % 3 % Technical operations and development expenses for Fiscal 2014 increased by $0.1 million, or 4%, to $4.3 million when compared to Fiscal 2013. This increase resulted primarily by our recognizing a 2010 Ontario Interactive Digital Media Tax Credit of $0.4 million, primarily related to eligible personnel costs, during the quarter ended June 30, 2013. This increase was partially offset by a decrease which resulted primarily from improved productivity in workforce related costs. 57 GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE General and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and related costs for managerial and administrative personnel, fees for professional services, public listing expenses, rent, foreign exchange and other general corporate expenses. Year ended December 31, 2014 2013 General and administrative $ 9,459,008 $ 7,523,906 Increase over prior period $ 1,935,102 Increase - percentage 26 % Percentage of net revenues 6 % 6 % General and administrative expenses for Fiscal 2014 increased by $1.9 million, or 26%, to $9.5 million as compared to Fiscal 2013. This increase was primarily the result of $1.0 million in increased credit card processing fees and bad debts, largely related to the growth of Ting and $0.6 million in increased professional fees as compared to Fiscal 2013. The professional fee increase included additional SOX compliance work that we have undertaken for the first time as well as pre-acquisition due diligence and other costs of $0.1 million that related to a potential acquisition that was abandoned once we determined that its completion was not probable, as well as increased losses in foreign exchange contracts of $0.2 million when compared to Fiscal 2013. DEPRECIATION OF PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Year ended December 31, 2014 2013 Depreciation of property and equipment $ 226,432 $ 215,447 Increase over prior period $ 10,985 Increase - percentage 5 % Percentage of net revenues 0 % 0 % Depreciation costs for Fiscal 2014 remained essentially flat at $0.2 million. AMORTIZATION OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS Year ended December 31, 2014 2013 Amortization of intangible assets $ 596,620 $ 876,120 Decrease over prior period $ (279,500 ) Decrease - percentage (32 )% Percentage of net revenues 0 % 1 % Amortization of intangible assets consists of amounts arising in connection with the acquisition of Innerwise, Inc. in July 2007 and the acquisition of EPAG in August 2011. The brand and customer relationships acquired in connection with the acquisitions of Innerwise Inc. and EPAG are being amortized on a straight-line basis over seven years. Technology acquired in connection with the acquisition of EPAG is amortized on a straight-line basis over two years. IMPAIRMENT OF INDEFINITE LIFE INTANGIBLE ASSETS Year ended December 31, 2014 2013 Impairment of indefinite life intangible assets $ 577,145 $ - Increase over prior period $ 577,145 Increase - percentage N/A % Percentage of net revenues 0 % - % As part of our normal renewal process during Fiscal 2014, we assessed that certain domain names acquired in the June 2006 acquisition of Mailbank.com Inc. should not be renewed and were allowed to expire. Accordingly, these domain names, with a book value of $0.6 million, have been written off and recorded as impairment of indefinite life intangible assets during Fiscal 2014. No impairment was recorded on indefinite-life intangible assets during Fiscal 2013. 58 LOSS (GAIN) ON CURRENCY FORWARD CONTRACTS Although our functional currency is the U.S. dollar, a major portion of our fixed expenses are incurred in Canadian dollars. Our goal with regard to foreign currency exposure is, to the extent possible; to achieve operational cost certainty, manage financial exposure to certain foreign exchange fluctuations and to neutralize some of the impact of foreign currency exchange movements. Accordingly, we enter into foreign exchange contracts to mitigate the exchange rate risk on portions of our Canadian dollar exposure. Year ended December 31, 2014 2013 Loss on currency forward contracts $ 357,760 357,109 Increase over prior period $ 651 Increase - percentage 0 % Percentage of net revenues 0 % 0 % We have entered into certain forward exchange contracts that do not comply with the requirements of hedge accounting to meet a portion of our future Canadian dollar requirements through December 2015. The impact of the fair value adjustment on outstanding contracts for Fiscal 2014 was a net loss of $0.1 million, compared to $0.5 million for Fiscal 2013. The impact of the fair value adjustment on outstanding contracts was increased by a realized loss upon settlement of currency forward contracts of $0.3 million for Fiscal 2014 compared to a realized gain of $0.1 million for Fiscal 2013. At December 31, 2014, our balance sheet reflects a derivative instrument liability of $1.1 million as a result of our existing foreign exchange contracts. Until their respective maturity dates, these contracts will fluctuate in value in line with movements in the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar. OTHER INCOME AND EXPENSES Year ended December 31, 2014 2013 Other income (expense), net $ (206,730 ) $ (354,857 ) Increase over prior period $ 148,127 Increase - percentage (42 ) % Percentage of net revenues 0 % (0 )% Other expenses for Fiscal 2014 which primarily consist of interest we incur in connection with our credit facility with the Bank of Montreal, decreased by $0.2 million, to $0.2 million, as compared with Fiscal 2013. INCOME TAXES The following table presents our provision for income taxes for the periods presented: Year ended December 31, 2014 2013 Provision for income taxes $ 3,054,229 1,619,339 Increase in provision over prior period $ 1,434,890 Increase - percentage 89 % Effective tax rate 32.4 % 27.9 % We operate in various tax jurisdictions, and accordingly, our income is subject to varying rates of tax. Losses incurred in one jurisdiction cannot be used to offset income taxes payable in another jurisdiction. Our ability to use income tax loss carryforwards and future income tax deductions is dependent upon our operations in the tax jurisdictions in which such losses or deductions arise. Income taxes are computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement carrying values and tax base of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to affect taxable income. Valuation allowances are established when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. Fiscal 2014 includes tax on profits of $3.4 million, offset by a recovery of $0.3 million related to investment tax credits. Fiscal 2013 includes tax on profits of $1.8 million, offset by a recovery of $0.2 million related to investment tax credits. 59 We had approximately $0.1 million of total gross unrecognized tax benefit as of December 31, 2014 and as of December 31, 2013, which if recognized would favorably affect our income tax rate in future periods. The unrecognized tax benefit relates primarily to prior year Pennsylvania state franchise taxes and other insignificant U.S. state taxes. A reconciliation of the federal statutory income tax rate to our effective tax rate is set forth in Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) To mitigate the impact of the change in fair value of our foreign exchange contracts on our financial results, in October 2012 we begun applying hedge accounting for the majority of the contracts we need to meet our Canadian dollar requirements on a prospective basis. The impact of the fair value adjustment on outstanding hedged contracts for Fiscal 2014 was a net loss in other comprehensive income of $0.4 million compared to $0.3 million for Fiscal 2013. The following table presents other comprehensive income for the periods presented: Year ended December 31, 2014 2013 Comprehensive income $ (377,460 ) $ (289,085 ) Increase in provision over prior period $ (88,375 ) Decrease - percentage 31 % Percentage of net revenues 0 % (0 )% 60 Liquidity and capital resources As of December 31, 2015, our cash and cash equivalents balance decreased by $0.6 million to $7.7 million when compared to December 31, 2014. Our principal sources of liquidity during Fiscal 2015 was net cash provided by operating activities of $13.3 million, the proceeds of $6.6 million we received on our previously announced agreement to amend our .online joint venture relationship to the Joint Marketing Agreement, the proceeds of $3.5 million we received under our Amended Credit Facility (defined below) to fund the previously announced acquisition of a controlling interest in Ting Virginia, LLC and the proceeds of $4.2 million we received on the exercise of stock options. The resulting proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $4.2 million includes an excess tax benefit from share based compensation expenses of $3.4 million. These sources of funds were partly offset by our repurchasing 868,549 of our shares for $20.0 million through our open market stock buyback that commenced on February 16, 2015 and ended on February 9, 2016, our repurchasing 193,907 shares for $3.6 million through our modified Dutch Auction tender offer (the Tender Offer) that closed on January 7, 2015 and our investing $3.0 million in additions to property and equipment. In addition, during Fiscal 2015, we made payments of tax obligations resulting from the net exercise of stock options of $1.3 million on behalf of option holders. We have credit agreements (collectively the Amended Credit Facility) with the Bank of Montreal which provide us with access to a demand loan revolving facility (the 2012 DLR Loan) and a demand loan revolving reducing facility (the 2012 DLRR Loan) that provide for a $14 million, five-year revolving credit facility, a $3.5 million treasury risk management facility and a $1.0 million operating demand loan. At December 31, 2015 the balance under the 2012 DLRR Loan was $3.5 million and the 2012 DLR Loan was fully repaid. Both of these financing arrangements remain available to fund future operations of the Company, with no set expiration date. In accordance with the terms of the demand loan facilities, repayment of advances under the 2012 DLR Loan consist of interest only payments at U.S. Base Rate plus 1.25%, made monthly in arrears, and prepayment is permitted without penalty. The Amended Credit Facility also provides for a $3.5 million settlement risk line to assist us with hedging Canadian dollar exposure through foreign exchange forward contracts and/or currency options. Under the terms of the Amended Credit Facility, we may enter into such agreements at market rates with terms not to exceed 18 months. As of December 31, 2015, the Company held contracts in the amount of $24.0 million to trade U.S. dollars in exchange for Canadian dollars. The Amended Credit Facility contains customary events of default and affirmative and negative covenants and restrictions, including certain financial maintenance covenants such as a maximum total funded debt to EBITDA ratio and a minimum fixed charge ratio. As of December 31, 2015, we were in compliance with all our covenants. Cash Flow from Operating Activities Year ended December 31, 2015 Net cash inflows from operating activities were $13.3 million, an increase of 50% when compared to the prior year. Net income, after adjusting for non-cash charges, during Fiscal 2015 was $14.0 million, an increase of 75% when compared to the prior year. Net income included non-cash charges and recoveries of $2.6 million such as depreciation, amortization, impairment of indefinite life intangible asset, stock-based compensation, the provision for unrealized losses on currency forward contracts and a recovery for deferred tax. This generation of cash from net income was partially offset by our increasing working capital by $0.7 million. We used $4.3 million to invest in accounts receivable, inventory, prepaid expenses and deposits and to prepay taxes. These investments in working capital were partially offset by positive contributions of $3.6 million from movements in accounts payable, deferred revenue, deferred registration costs, customer deposits and accrued liabilities. Year ended December 31, 2014 Net cash inflows from operating activities were $8.9 million, an increase of 2% when compared to the prior year. Net income, after adjusting for non-cash charges, during Fiscal 2014 was $8.0 million, an increase of 42% when compared to the prior year. Net income included non-cash charges and recoveries of $1.7 million such as depreciation, amortization, impairment of indefinite life intangible asset, stock-based compensation, the provision for unrealized losses on currency forward contracts, excess tax benefit related to stock-based compensation and a recovery for deferred tax. In addition, changes in our working capital generated $0.9 million. Positive contributions of $2.9 million from movements in accounts payable, deferred revenue, prepaid expenses and deposits and accrued liabilities were partially offset by our utilizing $2.0 million to fund a reduction in and deferred registration costs, income taxes, customer deposits and inventory and an increase in accounts receivable. Year ended December 31, 2013 Net cash inflows from operating activities were $8.7 million, an increase of 37% when compared to the prior year. Net income, after adjusting for non-cash charges, during Fiscal 2013 was $5.7 million, which included non-cash charges and recoveries of $1.5 million such as depreciation, amortization, stock-based compensation, the provision for unrealized losses on currency forward contracts, excess tax benefit related to stock-based compensation and a recovery for deferred tax. In addition, changes in our working capital generated $3.0 million. Positive contributions of $5.4 million from movements in deferred registration costs, income taxes, accrued liabilities, inventory, accounts payable and prepaid expenses and deposits, were partially offset by our utilizing $2.4 million to fund a reduction in deferred revenue and customer deposits and an increase in accounts receivable. 61 Cash Flow from Financing Activities Year ended December 31, 2015 Net cash used in financing activities during Fiscal 2015 totaled $17.2 million as compared to $4.1 million during Fiscal 2014. Net cash outflows amounting to $24.9 million resulted from $20.0 million used to fund our repurchasing 868,549 of our shares through our open market stock buyback that commenced on February 16, 2015 and our repurchasing of 193,907 shares for $3.6 million through our Tender Offer that closed on January 7, 2015. In addition, during Fiscal 2015, we made payments of tax obligations resulting from the net exercise of stock options of $1.3 million on behalf of option holders. These cash outflows were partially offset by cash inflows of $3.5 million we received under our Amended Credit Facility to fund the previously announced acquisition of a controlling interest in Ting Virginia, LLC and the exercise of stock options of $4.2 million. The resulting proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $4.2 million includes an excess tax benefit from share based compensation expenses of $3.4 million. Year ended December 31, 2014 Net cash used in financing activities during Fiscal 2014 totaled $4.1 million as compared to $1.4 million during Fiscal 2013. Net cash of $6.3 million was used to fully repay our Amended Credit Facility and $1.2 million was used to repurchase 0.1 million shares under our Normal Course Issuer Bid announced in March 2014. These uses of funds in financing activities were partially offset by the proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $3.4 million. Year ended December 31, 2013 Net cash used in financing activities during Fiscal 2013 totaled $1.4 million as compared to $5.8 million during Fiscal 2012. Net cash of $6.5 million was used to fund the repurchase of 4.1 million of our shares through a modified Dutch auction tender offer that was successfully concluded on January 4, 2013 and to repurchase 0.1 million shares under our current Normal Course Issuer Bid during the three months ended March 31, 2013. In addition, $2.6 million was used to fund principal repayments under our Amended Credit Facility. These uses of funds in financing activities were partially offset by our drawing $5.2 million under our Amended Credit Facility in January 2013 to fund a portion of the modified Dutch auction tender offer and by the proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $2.6 million. Cash Flow from Investing Activities Year ended December 31, 2015 Investing activities during Fiscal 2015 generated net cash of $3.3 million as compared to our use of $8.9 million during Fiscal 2014. Investing activities benefited from the proceeds of $6.6 million we received on our previously announced agreement with our .online joint venture partners to release each other from any and all obligations under the .online joint venture Term Sheet and instead enter into the Joint Marketing Agreement to launch marketing programs, with incentives and obligations to ensure the success of the .online registry. These marketing arrangements will contribute $1.5 million, which will be recognized evenly over the term of the marketing agreement commencing in November 2015. On February 27, 2015, Ting Fiber, Inc., one of our wholly owned subsidiaries, acquired a controlling ownership interest in the newly formed Ting Virginia, LLC and its acquired subsidiaries, Blue Ridge Websoft, LLC (doing business as Blue Ridge InternetWorks), Fiber Roads, LLC and Navigator Network Services, LLC (the BRI Group) for a consideration of approximately $3.6 million. The purchase price was satisfied through our releasing $3.1 million from the escrow accounts established during Fiscal 2014 and an additional payment of $0.4 million made at closing. In addition, we used $3.0 million to acquire additional property and equipment. Included in these additions is an amount of $2.2 million that we have invested since the acquisition of the BRI Group primarily in expanding our fiber network footprint. We expect our capital expenditures on building and expanding our fiber network to increase significantly during Fiscal 2016 as we seek to extend both our current network and expand to new towns. Year ended December 31, 2014 Investing activities during Fiscal 2014 used net cash of $8.2 million to fund our contribution for the auction and registry seed capital costs for the .online gTLD joint venture, as well as the escrow accounts that were established to fund our proposed acquisition of a controlling interest in an independent Internet service provider in Charlottesville, Virginia doing business primarily as Blue Ridge InternetWorks. In addition, we used net cash of $0.7 million to acquire additional property and equipment. Year ended December 31, 2013 Investing activities during Fiscal 2013 used net cash of $1.3 million to acquire additional property and equipment. 62 Based on our operations, we believe that our cash flow from operations will be adequate to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital, capital expenditures and our loan repayments for at least the next 12 months. We may need additional funds or seek other financing arrangements to facilitate more rapid expansion, develop new or enhance existing products or services, respond to competitive pressures or acquire or invest in complementary businesses, technologies, services or products. We may also evaluate potential acquisitions of other businesses, products and technologies. We currently have no commitments or agreements regarding the acquisition of other businesses. If additional financing is required, we may need additional equity or debt financing and any additional financing may be dilutive to existing investors. We may not be able to raise funds on acceptable terms, or at all. 63 Subsequent events On February 9, 2016, the Company announced that its Board of Directors has approved a stock buyback program to repurchase up to $40 million of its common stock in the open market. Purchases will be made exclusively through the facilities of the NASDAQ Capital Market. The stock buyback program commenced on February 10, 2016 and will terminate on or before February 9, 2017. Repurchases under this program may include open market purchases, block trades or a combination of such methods. All shares repurchased by Tucows under the stock buyback program will be retired and returned to treasury. The number of shares purchased and the timing of the purchases will depend on a number of factors, including share price, trading volume and general market conditions, working capital requirements, general business conditions, financial conditions, any applicable contractual limitations and other factors, including alternative investment opportunities. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2015. Contractual Obligations For the purpose of the contractual obligations table below, contractual obligations for purchases of goods or services are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. The expected timing of payment of the obligations discussed below is estimated based on information available to us as of December 31, 2015. Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different depending on the time of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed-upon amounts for some obligations. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 31, 2015: Contractual Obligations for the year ending December 31, Contractual Lease Obligations Purchase Obligations (1) Total Obligations 2016 $ 973,000 $ 9,279,000 $ 10,252,000 2017 989,000 12,713,000 13,702,000 2018 1,020,000 443,000 1,463,000 2019 1,003,000 1,003,000 2020 991,000 991,000 Thereafter 1,188,000 1,188,000 $ 6,164,000 $ 22,435,000 $ 28,599,000 (1) Purchase obligations include all other legally binding service contracts for mobile telephone services and other operational agreements to be delivered during Fiscal 2016 and subsequent years. 64