ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains, in addition to historical information, forward-looking statements by us with regard to our expectations as to financial results and other aspects of our business that involve risks and uncertainties and may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as may, should, anticipate, believe, plan, estimate, expect and intend, and other similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained in this report include statements regarding, among other things: the competition we expect to encounter as our business develops and competes in a broader range of Internet services; the Company's foreign currency requirements, specifically for the Canadian dollar; Mobile Services Platform, and fixed Internet access subscriber growth and retention rates; our belief regarding the underlying platform for our domain services, our expectation regarding the trend of sales of domain names and advertising; our expectations regarding portfolio revenue, our belief that, by increasing the number of services we offer, we will be able to generate higher revenues; our expectation regarding litigation; the potential impact of current and pending claims on our business; our valuations of certain deferred tax assets; our expectation to collect our outstanding receivables, net of our allowance for doubtful accounts; our expectation regarding fluctuations in certain expense and cost categories; our expectations regarding our unrecognized tax; our expectations regarding cash from operations to fund our business; the impact of cancellations of or amendments to market development fund programs under which we receive funds, our expectation regarding our ability to manage realized gains/losses from foreign currency contracts; the impact of the COVID-19 outbreak on our business, operations and financial performance; and general business conditions and economic uncertainty. These statements are based on managements current expectations and are subject to a number of uncertainties and risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Many factors affect our ability to achieve our objectives and to successfully develop and commercialize our services including: Our ability to continue to generate sufficient working capital to meet our operating requirements; Our ability to service our debt commitments; Our ability to maintain a good working relationship with our vendors and customers; The ability of vendors to continue to supply our needs; Actions by our competitors; Our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in our business; Our ability to effectively manage our business; The effects of any material impairment of our goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets; Our ability to obtain and maintain approvals from regulatory authorities on regulatory issues; Our ability to invest in the build-out of fiber networks into selected towns and cities to provide Internet access services to residential and commercial customers while maintaining the development and sales of our established services; Adverse tax consequences such as those related to changes in tax laws or tax rates or their interpretations, including with respect to the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017; The application of judgment in determining our global provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets or liabilities or other tax liabilities given the ultimate tax determination is uncertain; Our ability to effectively integrate acquisitions; Our ability to monitor, assess and respond to the rapidly changing impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. Our current assessment of expected impacts has been included below as part of the Opportunities, Challenges & Risks section. Our ability to collect anticipated payments from DISH in connection with the 10-year payment stream that is a function of the margin generated by the transferred subscribers over a 10-year period pursuant to the terms of the DISH Purchase Agreement; Pending or new litigation; and Factors set forth below in Part II - Other Information under the caption "Item 1A Risk Factors" in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q related to our Mobile Services Enabler ("MSE") platform and business. Factors set forth under the caption Item 1A Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020 filed with the SEC on March 3, 2021 (the 2020 Annual Report). As previously disclosed the under the caption Item 1A Risk Factors in our 2020 Annual Report, data protection regulations may impose legal obligations on us that we cannot meet or that conflict with our ICANN contractual requirements. 22 Table of Contents This list of factors that may affect our future performance and financial and competitive position and the accuracy of forward-looking statements is illustrative, but it is by no means exhaustive. Accordingly, all forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based on information available to us as of the date of this document, and we assume no obligation to update these cautionary statements or any forward-looking statements, except as required by law. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. We qualify all the forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q by the foregoing cautionary statements. OVERVIEW Our mission is to provide simple useful services that help people unlock the power of the Internet. We accomplish this by reducing the complexity of our customers experience as they access the Internet (at home or on the go) and while using Internet services such as domain name registration, email and other Internet services. During the first quarter of 2021, the Company completed a reorganization of its reporting structure into three operating and reportable segments: Fiber Internet Services, Mobile Services and Domain Services. Previously, we disclosed two operating and reportable segments: Network Access Services and Domain Services. The change to our reportable operating segments was the result of a shift in our business and management structures that was initiated in 2020 and completed during the first quarter of 2021. The operations supporting what was previously known as our Network Access Services segment have become increasingly operationally distinct between our mobile services (which includes both retail mobile MNVO based services and wholesale MSE services) and our fiber Internet services which were also included in our Network Access Services segment. We are now organized, managed and report our financial results as three segments, Fiber Internet Services, Mobile Services and Domain Services which are differentiated primarily by their services, the markets they serve and the regulatory environments in which they operate. Our management regularly reviews our operating results on a consolidated basis, principally to make decisions about how we utilize our resources and to measure our consolidated operating performance. To assist us in forecasting growth and to help us monitor the effectiveness of our operational strategies, our management regularly reviews revenues, operating results and performance for each of our service offerings in order to gain more depth and understanding of the key business metrics driving our business. Commencing in the first quarter of 2021, our Chief Executive Officer (CEO), who is also our chief operating decision maker , reviews the operating results of Mobile Services and Fiber Internet Services as two distinct segments in order to make key operating decisions as well as evaluate segment performance. Accordingly, effective January 1, 2021 we now report Fiber Internet Services, Mobile Services and Domain Services revenue separately. Additionally, we have adjusted segment reporting to include adjusted EBITDA as a key measure of segment performance in addition to our existing key measure of segment performance, gross profit. For the three months ended March 31, 2021 and March 31, 2020, we reported revenue of $70.9 million and $84.0 million, respectively. Fiber Internet Services Fiber Internet Services includes the provision of fixed high-speed Internet access services and other revenues, including billing solutions to small ISPs. The Company also derives revenue from the sale of fixed high-speed Internet access, Ting Internet, in select towns throughout the United States, with further expansion underway to both new and existing Ting towns. Our primary sales channel of Ting Internet is through the Ting website. The primary focus of Ting Internet is to provide reliable Gigabit Internet services to consumer and business customers. Revenues from Ting Internet are all generated in the U.S. and are provided on a monthly basis. Ting Internet services have no fixed contract terms. Mobile Services Mobile Services includes the provision of Mobile Services Enabler ("MSE") platform and professional services, as well as the sale of retail mobile phone and retail telephone services for a small subset of retail customers. On August 1 2020, the Company and its wholly owned Subsidiary Ting, Inc. entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement (the "DISH Purchase Agreement) with DISH pursuant to which Ting sold substantially all of its legacy retail mobile customer relationships, and mobile handset and SIM inventory to DISH and granted DISH the right to use and an option to purchase the Ting brand. The transferred assets under the DISH Purchase Agreement did not include the technology platforms and related intellectual property and infrastructure necessary to enable or support the mobile customers. The Company retained the assets used to provide MSE platform and other professional services to DISH, as discussed below. Revenues from our retail mobile services, MSE platform and professional services are all generated in the U.S. and are provided on a monthly basis. Our MSE customer agreements have set contract lengths with the underlying Mobile Virtual Network Operator ("MVNO"). As part of the DISH Purchase Agreement, as a form of consideration for the sale of the customer relationships, the Company receives a payout on the margin associated with the legacy customer base sold to DISH. This has been classified as Other Income and not considered revenue in the current period. Domain Services Domain Services includes wholesale and retail domain name registration services, as well as value added services derived through our OpenSRS, eNom, Ascio, EPAG and Hover brands. We earn revenues primarily from the registration fees charged to resellers in connection with new, renewed and transferred domain name registrations. In addition, we earn revenues from the sale of retail domain name registration and email services to individuals and small businesses. Domain Services revenues are attributed to the country in which the contract originates, which is primarily in Canada and the U.S for OpenSRS and eNom brands. Ascio domain services contracts and EPAG agreements primarily originate in Europe. Our primary distribution channel is a global network of approximately 36,000 resellers that operate in over 150 countries and who typically provide their customers, the end-users of Internet-based services, with solutions for establishing and maintaining an online presence. Our primary focus is serving the needs of this network of resellers by providing the broadest portfolio of generic top-level domain (gTLD) and the country code top-level domain options and related services, a white-label platform that facilitates the provisioning and management of domain names, a powerful Application Program Interface, easy-to-use interfaces, comprehensive management and reporting tools, and proactive and attentive customer service. Our services are integral to the solutions that our resellers deliver to their customers. We provide second tier support to our resellers by email, chat and phone in the event resellers experience issues or problems with our services. In addition, our Network Operating Center proactively monitors all services and network infrastructure to address deficiencies before customer services are impacted. 23 Table of Contents We believe that the underlying platforms for our services are among the most mature, reliable and functional reseller-oriented provisioning and management platforms in our industry, and we continue to refine, evolve and improve these services for both resellers and end-users. Our business model is characterized primarily by non-refundable, up-front payments, which lead to recurring revenue and positive operating cash flow. Wholesale, primarily branded as OpenSRS, eNom, EPAG and Ascio, derives revenue from its domain service and from providing value-added services. The OpenSRS, eNom, EPAG and Ascio domain services manage 25.7 million domain names under the Tucows, eNom, EPAG and Ascio ICANN registrar accreditations and for other registrars under their own accreditations, which has increased by 1.9 million domain names since March 31, 2020. The increase is driven by increased registrations experienced by our brands during COVID-19, as more businesses established an online presence, offset by the continued erosion of registrations related to non-core customers from our eNom brand. Value-Added Services include hosted email which provides email delivery and webmail access to millions of mailboxes, Internet security services, WHOIS privacy, publishing tools and other value-added services. All of these services are made available to end-users through a network of 36,000 web hosts, ISPs, and other resellers around the world. In addition, we also derive revenue by monetizing domain names which are near the end of their lifecycle through advertising or auction sale. Retail, primarily the Hover and eNom portfolio of websites, including eNom, eNom Central and Bulkregister, derive revenues from the sale of domain name registration, email services to individuals and small businesses. Retail also includes our Personal Names Service based on over 36,000 surname domains that allows roughly two-thirds of Americans to purchase a surname based email address. The retail segment now includes the sale of the r ights to its portfolio of surname domains used in connection with our Realnames email service, however the Company expects surname portfolio revenue to materially decline through Fiscal 2021 and thereafter. Retail also includes our Exact Hosting Service, that provides Linux hosting services for websites of individuals and small businesses. KEY BUSINESS METRICS AND NON-GAAP MEASURES We regularly review a number of business metrics, including the following key metrics and non-GAAP measures, to assist us in evaluating our business, measure the performance of our business model, identify trends impacting our business, determine resource allocations, formulate financial projections and make strategic business decisions. The following tables set forth the key business metrics which we believe are the primary indicators of our performance for the periods presented: Adjusted EBITDA Tucows reports all financial information in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, to assist financial statement users in an assessment of our historical performance, we typically disclose and discuss a non-GAAP financial measure, adjusted EBITDA, on investor conference calls and related events that exclude certain non-cash and other charges as we believe that the non-GAAP information enhances investors overall understanding of our financial performance. Please see discussion of adjusted EBITDA in the Results of Operations section below. Ting Internet March 31, 2021 2020 (in '000's) Ting Internet subscribers under management 17 12 Ting Internet serviceable addresses ( 1 ) 65 45 ( 1 ) Defined as premises to which Ting has the capability to provide a customer connection in a service area. Domain Services For the Three Months Ended March 31,( 1 ) 2021 2020 (in 000's) Total new, renewed and transferred-in domain name registrations provisioned 4,817 4,756 ( 1 ) For a discussion of these period-to-period changes in the domains provisioned and domains under management and how they impacted our financial results see the Net Revenues discussion below. Domain Services March 31, 2021 2020 (in 000's) Registered using Registrar Accreditation belonging to the Tucows Group 19,787 19,145 Registered using Registrar Accreditation belonging to Resellers 5,996 4,750 Total domain names under management 25,783 23,895 24 Table of Contents OPPORTUNITIES, CHALLENGES AND RISKS Our revenue is primarily realized in U.S. dollars and a major portion of our operating expenses are paid in Canadian dollars. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar may have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results from operations. In particular, we may be adversely affected by a significant weakening of the U.S. dollar against the Canadian dollar on a quarterly and an annual basis. Our policy with respect to foreign currency exposure is to manage our financial exposure to certain foreign exchange fluctuations with the objective of neutralizing some or all of the impact of foreign currency exchange movements by entering into foreign exchange forward contracts to mitigate the exchange risk on a portion of our Canadian dollar exposure. We may not always enter into such forward contracts and such contracts may not always be available and economical for us. Additionally, the forward rates established by the contracts may be less advantageous than the market rate upon settlement. Fiber Internet Services As an ISP, we have invested and expect to continue to invest in new fiber to the home (FTTH) deployments in select markets in the United States. The investments are a reflection of our ongoing efforts to build FTTH network via public-private partnerships in communities we identify as having strong, unmet demand for FTTH services. Given the significant upfront build and operational investments for these FTTH deployments, there is risk that future technological and regulatory changes as well as competitive responses from incumbent local providers, may result in us not fully recovering these investments. The communications industry continues to compete on the basis of network reach and performance, types of services and devices offered, and price. Mobile Services The prior year sale of substantially all of the Companys mobile customer base and pivot from MVNO to MSE will be a strategic shift for our Mobile Services segment. At the start, DISH will be our sole customer and will represent 100% of our MSE platform revenues until such time that we are able to scale our services to other customers interested in our enablement services. With all our MSE platform and professional services revenues concentrated with one customer, we are exposed to significant risk if we are unable to maintain this customer relationship or establish new relationships in the future. Additionally, our revenues as an MSE are directly tied to the subscriber volumes of DISH's MVNO or MNO networks, so our profitability is contingent on the ability of DISH to continue to add subscribers onto our platform. Additionally, as described above, the Company will be entitled to a 10-year payment stream that is a function of the margin generated by the transferred subscribers over the 10-year period. This consideration structure may not prove to be successful or profitable in the long-term to us if the existing subscriber base churns at an above average rate upon acquisition by DISH. Additionally, given DISH controls the revenues and costs incurred associated with the acquired subscribers, there could arise a situation where profitability for the subscriber base is diminished either by lower price points or cost inflation As part of the transactions contemplated by the DISH Purchase agreement, the Company has retained a small number of customer accounts associated with one MNO agreement that was not reassigned to DISH at time of sale. We continue to be subject to the minimum revenue commitment s previously agreed to with this excluded MNO agreement. The Company will be able to continue adding customers under the excluded MNO network working with DISH in order to meet the commitment. However, with no direct ability to change customer pricing or renegotiate contract costs or terms, the Company may be unable to meet the minimum commitments with this MNO partner and could incur significant and recurring penalties until such a time that the contract is complete. These penalties would negatively impact our operational performance and financial results if enforced by the MNO. Domain Services The increased competition in the market for Internet services in recent years, which we expect will continue to intensify in the short and long term, poses a material risk for us. As new registrars are introduced, existing competitors expand service offerings and competitors offer price discounts to gain market share, we face pricing pressure, which can adversely impact our revenues and profitability. To address these risks, we have focused on leveraging the scalability of our infrastructure and our ability to provide proactive and attentive customer service to aggressively compete to attract new customers and to maintain existing customers. Substantially all of our Domain Services revenue is derived from domain name registrations and related value-added services from wholesale and retail customers using our provisioning and management platforms. The market for wholesale registrar services is both price sensitive and competitive and is evolving with the introduction of new gTLDs, particularly for large volume customers, such as large web hosting companies and owners of large portfolios of domain names. We have a relatively limited ability to increase the pricing of domain name registrations without negatively impacting our ability to maintain or grow our customer base. Growth in our Domain Services revenue is dependent upon our ability to continue to attract and retain customers by maintaining consistent domain name registration and value-added service renewal rates and to grow our customer relationships through refining, evolving and improving our provisioning platforms and customer service for both resellers and end-users. In addition, we also generate revenue through pay-per-click advertising and through the OpenSRS Domain Expiry Stream. The revenue associated with names sales and advertising has recently experienced flat to declining trends due to the uncertainty around the implementation of ICANNs New gTLD Program, lower traffic and advertising yields in the marketplace, which we expect to continue. From time-to-time certain of our vendors provide us with market development funds to expand or maintain the market position for their services. Any decision by these vendors to cancel or amend these programs for any reason may result in payments in future periods not being commensurate with what we have achieved during past periods. 25 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires us to make estimates and judgements that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. There have been no material changes to the critical accounting policies and estimates as previously disclosed in Part II, Item 7 of our 2020 Annual Report. For further information on our critical accounting policies and estimates, see Note 3 Recent Accounting Pronouncements to the consolidated financial statements of the Company in Part I, Item 1 in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Current COVID-19 Response Our Employees Tucows is a global business and has long encouraged a culture of remote work even prior to this global pandemic. Since the onset of this pandemic, all employees who could conceivably work from home were and continue to be encouraged to do so. Tucows continues to actively and strongly encourage its workforce to heed travel and all other emergency advisories, including social distancing and where appropriate, self-isolation. We expect our work from home policy to remain in effect until emergency state and governmental declarations where we have physical offices have ended and we believe the risk of community spread of the disease has subsided. Given our experience with remote work prior to COVID-19, we have not and do not expect to have productivity issues while the overwhelming majority of our office-based workforce is dispersed. For the small group of employees who are unable work from home during this time, including our order fulfillment and Fiber installation teams, many of whom work in the field, they are encouraged to practice social distancing and to continue to follow hygiene best practices and safety protocols as outlined by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. In the prior year, the Ting Internet team established an install solution for our employees and customers that minimizes risks associated with person-to-person contact and they continue to effectively deploy this install solution currently. Our Customers We recognize the important role we play within the Internet space and are committed to continue providing quality service during the COVID-19 outbreak. Across our three segments, Domain Name Services and our Mobile Services segments do not rely on in-person interaction or the supply chain in the same way physical products and services do. We continue to provide uninterrupted services for all Domains and Mobile related services. Our Fiber Internet business does not have bandwidth caps or other such limitations. Likewise, our networks are built with the capacity to accommodate future needs. To help our customers remain connected at home during this time, we upgraded all our lower-tier fiber customers to symmetrical gigabit access at no charge. Any additional traffic from our customers working from home has not had and is not expected to have any negative impact on connectivity. As discussed above, our modified safe-install solution was implemented in early May 2020. With this service limitation, new customer acquisition will remain slower than pre-pandemic levels of growth and installation. Even with an install solution that minimizes risks, customers may be unwilling to have service personnel visit their homes or offices. Our Community Tucows believes the Internet is essential infrastructure and an immensely powerful tool, especially in times of crises where coordination is essential. From an early point in the current global crisis, it was clear to us that we were going to need to do something new and different in how we responded to COVID-19 related domain registrations. We developed a strategy of compliance activities that encompassed three major components: (i) identification, (ii) assessment for harm, and (iii) stakeholder engagement. In order to provide Internet access and assistance to residents of cities and towns that are part of the Ting Fiber network, we have set up free, fiber-fed, drive-up Wi-Fi hotspots. These hotspots enable those with no home Internet access, or insufficient access, to access critical services like online learning and telehealth services, work remotely, check in on and access vital health, government and other services and generally access information. These hotspots will remain in operation as long as they are needed and as long as it is safe and prudent to do so. We have not experienced any material resource constraints nor do we foresee requiring any material expenditures to continue to implement our business continuity plans described above. Current and expected COVID-19 Impacts Financial & Operational Impacts Further to the below discussion within this Quarterly Report around the financial condition and results of operations for the current period financial results, the current impact from COVID-19 has been limited so far in 2021. Over the past year, we've monitored the situation and it's impacts on our businesses but have ultimately seen trends stabilize, with some hints at recovery in U.S. markets due to large-scale vaccination programs. Management continues to assess the impact regularly but expects limited impact through the remainder of 2021, should the COVID-19 pandemic persist. On a segment basis, our current assessment is as follows: Fiber Internet Services : As discussed above, the Ting Internet team established a smart-install solution at the start of the pandemic. This smart-install solution is faster and more efficient than our existing process, all while protecting the health and safety of our employees and customers alike. Although new customer installations initially slowed at the start of the pandemic, we are now seeing returned growth in both subscribers under management as well as serviceable addresses relative to the prior quarter. 26 Table of Contents Mobile Services : The Company now only retains a small subset of customers to which it continues to provide retail mobile services. COVID-19 has impacted the demand for our Mobile Services as customer usage patterns have changed, which has had a corresponding negative impact on our revenues. However, we do not expect the impact to significantly worsen over the coming months or year as we have seen usage stabilize during the prior periods. We also expect that seasonally warmer weather for the second fiscal quarter of 2021 and continued vaccine roll-out across the U.S. will slowly help to normalize customer usage patterns. Our new MSE platform and professional services businesses are completely online and do not rely on physical storefronts to attract or service customers needs. We are fully prepared to continue providing uninterrupted Mobile related enablement services to our MVNO customers. We have not and do not expect a negative COVID-19 impact on our new MSE platform and professional services revenue, nor do we expect any impact to substantially worsen over the coming months. Domain Services: Domain Services are foundational to the functioning of the Internet. Services like individual and wholesale domain names, email and hosting do not rely on in-person interaction or the supply chain in the same way physical products and services do. We have not experienced any negative COVID-19 related impacts, either financially or operationally for Domains related services, across our OpenSRS, eNom, Ascio, EPAG & Hover brands. As more businesses faced the reality of prolonged physical shutdown and moved to establish an online presence, we have seen growth in this segment over the course of the pandemic, primarily driven by large volume resellers in our OpenSRS brand where total domains under management increased by 0.5 million since December 31, 2020. This growth rate in domains under management was driven by the pandemic, and may not be sustained in the future as domain registrations plateau. Our results of operations for the current period financial results are in line with managements expectation for the period given product, customer mix and current brand trajectories. We will continue to monitor the impact but do not foresee any negative financial or operational impacts associated with this segment. Liquidity & Financial Resource Impacts For a complete assessment of our liquidity and covenant positions please reference the relevant discussions within this Quarterly Report. We have experienced no significant change to our liquidity position or credit risk as a result of the financial and operational impacts related to COVID-19, as discussed above. Our cost or access to funding sources has not changed and is not reasonably likely to change in the near future as a result of the pandemic. Our sources and uses of cash have not been materially impacted and there is no known material uncertainty about our ongoing ability meet covenants or repayment terms of our credit agreements at this time. Internal Controls over Financial Reporting Tucows has long encouraged a culture of remote work even prior to COVID-19. Our financial reporting systems and our internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure