ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS The following discussion and analysis should be read together with the audited consolidated financial statements of Tucows Inc. (the Company, we, us, Tucows or our) as at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019 and for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 and accompanying notes set forth elsewhere in this report. All financial information is presented in U.S. dollars. Some of the statements set forth in this section are forward-looking statements relating to our future results of operations. Accordingly, reference is made to Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements, which describe important factors that could cause actual results to differ from expectations and non-historical information contained herein. OVERVIEW Our mission is to provide simple useful services that help people unlock the power of the Internet. We accomplish this by reducing the complexity of our customers experience as they access the Internet (at home or on the go) and while using Internet services such as domain name registration, email, and other Internet services. We are organized, managed and report our financial results as two segments, Network Access Services and Domain Services, which are differentiated primarily by their services, the markets they serve and the regulatory environments in which they operate. Our principal place of business is located in Canada. We manage our business as segments, Network Access Services, which primarily derives revenue from two distinct service offerings - Mobile Services and Fiber Internet services, and Domain Services, which derives revenue from three distinct service offerings wholesale, retail and portfolio. To assist us in forecasting growth and to help us monitor the effectiveness of our operational strategies, our management regularly reviews revenue and cost of revenues for each of our segments in order to gain more depth and understanding of the key business metrics driving our business. For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, we reported revenue of $311 million, $337 million and $346 million, respectively. Network Access Services Network Access Services derives revenues from two distinct service offerings - Mobile Services and Fiber Internet services. Mobile Services includes retail mobile services, mobile platform and other professional services supporting MVNOs, whereas Fiber Internet services is focused on providing fixed high-speed Internet access services to individuals and small businesses across the United States as well as billing solutions to small ISPs. Network Access Services revenues are all generated in the U.S. and are provided on a monthly basis. Ting Mobile and Internet services have no fixed contract terms, while our MSE customer agreements have set contract lengths with the underlying MVNO. Mobile Services were historically focused on providing mobile telephony services through our MVNO brand Ting Mobile. As mentioned above, on August 1, 2020 the Company sold substantially all of the customer relationships associated with Ting Mobile to DISH as part of the Purchase Agreement and now only retains a small subset of customers for which it continues to provide retail mobile services through the Ting Mobile brand. As part of the Purchase Agreement, the Company granted DISH the right to use and an option to purchase the Ting brand. Historically, we also operated other MVNO brands, ZipSim and Always Online Wireless (collectively referred to as the Roam Mobility brands). However, as a result of the developments in the economy and the heavily impacted business and leisure travel industries as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic early into the year, the Company was faced with considerable lack of demand for a SIM-enabled roaming service and decided to shut down the operations of the Roam Mobility brands in June 2020, which was completed by September 30, 2020. Although we still provide retail mobile services to a small subset of customers retained from the Purchase Agreement, this service offering no longer represents the Company's strategic focus for Mobile Services going forward. Instead, we have transitioned away from a MVNO and towards a MSE, where we will focus on delivering a wide range of functions including billing, activation, provisioning, funnel marketing, and other professional services to mobile providers via our Mobile Platform. DISH is now the first Tucows mobile technology customer. Fiber Internet services derives revenue from the sale of fixed high-speed Internet access (Ting Internet) in select communities throughout the United States, including towns in North Carolina, Maryland, Idaho, Colorado, Virginia, and California with further expansion underway to both new and existing Ting towns. Our primarily sales channel of Ting Internet is through the Ting website. The primary focus of Ting Internet is to provide reliable Gigabit Internet services to consumer and business customers. On January 1, 2020, the Company completed its acquisition of Cedar. Cedar is a telecommunications provider serving multiple markets in the Western Slope of Colorado and northwestern New Mexico. Cedar has focused the last several years on building fiber to enterprise, anchor institution, and residential customers. The purchase price was $14.1 million, less an estimated purchase price adjustment of approximately $0.2 million relating to a working capital deficit and assessment of the fair value of contingent consideration, for net purchase consideration of $13.9 million. The cash consideration due at closing of $9.0 million was financed by an advance on the 2019 Amended Credit Facility. The Company also issued 32,374 of Tucows Inc. shares ($2 million) with a two-year restriction period at closing. Included in the agreement is contingent consideration totaling up to $4.0 million is expected to be paid on the 24th and 36th month anniversaries of the closing of the transaction dependent upon certain milestones as defined in the definitive transaction agreement. The fair value of the contingent consideration was determined to be $3.1 million using a discount rate of 11.2 % . As of December 31, 2020, Ting Internet had access to 56,000 serviceable addresses and 15,000 active accounts under its management compared to having access to 36,000 serviceable addresses and 10,000 active accounts under its management as of December 31, 2019. 28 Table of Contents Domain Services Domain Services derives revenues from three distinct service offerings - wholesale, retail and portfolio. Wholesale includes the sale of domain name registration services and value added services through our reseller focused brands - OpenSRS, eNom, EPAG and Ascio. Retail services is also focused on the sale of domain name registration and email services but with an end customer focus, selling to individuals and small businesses through our brands Hover and eNom portfolio of websites. Lastly, we make a portfolio of surname domain names available for sale as part of our RealNames email service. Domain Services revenues are attributed to the country in which the contract originates, which is primarily in Canada and the U.S. for OpenSRS and eNom brands. Ascio domain services contracts and EPAG agreements primarily originate in Europe. Wholesale derives revenues primarily from the registration fees charged to resellers in connection with new, renewed and transferred domain name registrations. In addition to domain name registrations we also provide other value added services including hosted email, Internet security services, Internet hosting, WHOIS privacy, publishing tools and more. In addition, we also derive revenue by monetizing domain names which are near the end of their lifecycle through advertising revenue or auction sale. All of these services are made available to end-users through a network of 36,000 web hosts, ISPs and other resellers around the world. Together the OpenSRS, eNom, EPAG and Ascio Domain Services manage 25.4 million domain names under the Tucows, eNom, EPAG and Ascio ICANN registrar accreditations and for other registrars under their own accreditations. Domains under management has increased by 1.6 million domain names since December 31, 2019. The increase is driven by increased registrations experienced by our brands during the COVID-19 pandemic, which saw more businesses establish and expand their online presence, offset by the continued erosion of registrations related to non-core customers from our eNom brand. Retail, primarily the Hover and eNom portfolio of websites, including eNom, eNom Central and Bulkregister, derive revenues from the sale of domain name registration and email services to individuals and small businesses. Our retail domain services also includes our Personal Names Service based on over 36,000 surname domains that allows roughly two-thirds of Americans to purchase an email address based on their last name. Portfolio services generate revenue by offering names in our surname domain portfolio for resale through our RealNames email service. The Company expects portfolio revenue to remain flat into Fiscal 2021 (as defined below) and thereafter. KEY BUSINESS METRICS and Non-GAAP Measure We regularly review a number of business metrics, including the following key metrics and non-GAAP measure, to assist us in evaluating our business, measure the performance of our business model, identify trends impacting our business, determine resource allocations, formulate financial projections and make strategic business decisions. Following the sale of substantially all of the Ting Mobile customers as part of the Purchase Agreement, we have ceased reporting Ting Mobile subscribers and accounts under management. The following tables set forth the key business metrics which we believe are the primary indicators of our performance for the periods presented: Adjusted EBITDA Tucows reports all financial information in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, to assist financial statement users in an assessment of our historical performance, we typically disclose and discuss a non-GAAP financial measure, adjusted EBITDA, on investor conference calls and related events that excludes certain non-cash and other charges as we believe that the non-GAAP information enhances investors overall understanding of our financial performance. Please see discussion of adjusted EBITDA in the Results of Operations section below. Ting Internet For the year ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 (in '000's) Ting Internet accounts under management 15 10 7 Ting Internet serviceable addresses (1) 56 36 28 (1) Defined as premises to which Ting has the capability to provide a customer connection in a service area. Domain Services For the year ended December 31,(1) 2020 2019 2018 (in 000's) Total new, renewed and transferred-in domain name registrations provisioned 18,220 17,285 17,358 Domains under management Registered using Registrar Accreditation belonging to the Tucows Group 19,685 19,233 18,537 Registered using Registrar Accreditation belonging to Resellers 5,692 4,540 4,772 Total domain names under management (2) 25,377 23,773 23,309 (1) For a discussion of these period-to-period changes in the domains provisioned and domains under management and how they impacted our financial results see the Net Revenues discussion below. (2) Throughout 2018, the Company completed bulk transfers of 2.89 million names, for domain names under management related to Namecheap. 29 Table of Contents OPPORTUNITIES, CHALLENGES AND RISKS Our revenue is primarily realized in U.S. dollars and a major portion of our operating expenses are paid in Canadian dollars. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar may have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results from operations. In particular, we may be adversely affected by a significant weakening of the U.S. dollar against the Canadian dollar on a quarterly and an annual basis. Our policy with respect to foreign currency exposure is to manage our financial exposure to certain foreign exchange fluctuations with the objective of neutralizing some or all of the impact of foreign currency exchange movements by entering into foreign exchange forward contracts to mitigate the exchange risk on a portion of our Canadian dollar exposure. We may not always enter into such forward contracts and such contracts may not always be available and economical for us. Additionally, the forward rates established by the contracts may be less advantageous than the market rate upon settlement. Network Access Services On August 1, 2020, the Company and its wholly owned Subsidiary Ting, Inc. entered into a Purchase Agreement with DISH pursuant to which Ting sold substantially all of its retail mobile customer relationships, and mobile handset and SIM inventory to DISH and granted the right to use and an option to purchase the Ting brand. Select MNO agreements previously established to operate the Ting Mobile MVNO business were assigned to DISH as part of this Purchase Agreement. The transferred assets under the Purchase Agreement do not include the technology platforms and related intellectual property and infrastructure necessary to enable or support the mobile customers. The Company will retain assets used to provide MSE services to DISH, as discussed below. Contemporaneously with the execution of the Purchase Agreement on August 1, 2020, the Company, through its wholly owned subsidiary Ting, Inc. entered into a services agreement under which Ting will act as a MSE with DISH in support of DISHs MVNO businesses. Under the terms of the MSE Agreement, the Company and its affiliates are permitted to sell mobile service enabler services to other third parties. The identified risks associated with this pivot from MVNO to MSE have been discussed at length above in Part I under the caption "Item 1A Risk Factors" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As an ISP, we have invested and expect to continue to invest in new fiber to the home (FTTH) deployments in select markets in the United States. The investments are a reflection of our ongoing efforts to build FTTH network via public-private partnerships in communities we identify as having strong, unmet demand for FTTH services. Given the significant upfront build and operational investments for these FTTH deployments, there is risk that future technological and regulatory changes as well as competitive responses from incumbent local providers, may result in us not fully recovering these investments. The communications industry continues to compete on the basis of network reach and performance, types of services and devices offered, and price. Domain Services The increased competition in the market for Internet services in recent years, which we expect will continue to intensify in the short and long term, poses a material risk for us. As new registrars are introduced, existing competitors expand service offerings and competitors offer price discounts to gain market share, we face pricing pressure, which can adversely impact our revenues and profitability. To address these risks, we have focused on leveraging the scalability of our infrastructure and our ability to provide proactive and attentive customer service to aggressively compete to attract new customers and to maintain existing customers. Substantially all of our Domain Services revenue is derived from domain name registrations and related value-added services from wholesale and retail customers using our provisioning and management platforms. The market for wholesale registrar services is both price sensitive and competitive and is evolving with the introduction of new gTLDs, particularly for large volume customers, such as large web hosting companies and owners of large portfolios of domain names. We have a relatively limited ability to increase the pricing of domain name registrations without negatively impacting our ability to maintain or grow our customer base. Growth in our Domain Services revenue is dependent upon our ability to continue to attract and retain customers by maintaining consistent domain name registration and value-added service renewal rates and to grow our customer relationships through refining, evolving and improving our provisioning platforms and customer service for both resellers and end-users. In addition, we also generate revenue through pay-per-click advertising and the sale of names from our portfolio of domain names and through the OpenSRS Domain Expiry Stream. The revenue associated with names sales and advertising has recently experienced flat to declining trends due to the uncertainty around the implementation of ICANNs New gTLD Program, lower traffic and advertising yields in the marketplace, which we expect to continue. From time-to-time certain of our vendors provide us with market development funds to expand or maintain the market position for their services. Any decision by these vendors to cancel or amend these programs for any reason may result in payments in future periods not being commensurate with what we have achieved during past periods. Sales of domain names from our surname domain portfolio have a negative impact on our advertising revenue as these names are no longer available for advertising purposes. In addition, the timing of portfolio sales is unpredictable and may lead to significant quarterly fluctuations in our Portfolio revenue. The Company expects portfolio revenue to decline into 2021 and starting in the first quarter of 2021 will no longer separately breakout Portfolio revenues. An in-depth assessment of the risk factors impacting our businesses has been discussed at length above in Part I under the caption "Item 1A Risk Factors" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 30 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies The following is a discussion of our critical accounting policies and methods. Critical accounting policies are defined as those that are both important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and are reflective of significant judgments and uncertainties made by management that may result in materially different results under different assumptions and conditions. Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2020 (Fiscal 2020) included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report, includes further information on the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, management evaluates its estimates, including those related to amounts recognized for carrying values of revenues, bad debts, and inventory obsolescence which requires estimates of sales forecasts and other marketplace considerations, internal use software which requires estimates of whether the costs incurred meet the criteria for capitalization based on the stage of the projects, the portion of MSE billings related to professional services, the recoverability of goodwill and intangible assets which require estimates of future cash flows and discount rates, lease liability which requires estimates of incremental borrowing rate and the expectation of exercising lease renewal periods, income taxes, contingencies and litigation, and estimates of credit spreads for determination of the fair value of derivative instruments. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances at the time they are made. Under different assumptions or conditions, the actual results will differ, potentially materially, from those previously estimated. Many of the conditions impacting these assumptions and estimates are outside of the Companys control. Revenue Recognition Policy The Companys revenues are derived from (a) the provisioning of mobile and fiber Internet services; and from (b) domain name registration contracts, other domain related value-added services and domain sale contracts. Amounts received in advance of meeting the revenue recognition criteria described below are recorded as deferred revenue. All products are generally sold without the right of return or refund. Revenue is measured based on consideration specified in a contract with a customer and excludes any sales incentives and amounts collected on behalf of third parties. The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies a performance obligation by transferring control over a product or service to a customer. Nature of goods and services The following is a description of principal activities separated by reportable segments from which the Company generates its revenue. For more detailed information about reportable segments. See Note 19 Segment Reporting of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for more information. (a) Network Access Services The Company generates Network Access Services revenues primarily through the provisioning of retail mobile services, mobile platform and professional services supporting MVNOs, fixed high-speed Internet access services and other revenues, including billing solutions to small ISPs. Mobile Services - Retail Mobile Services Ting Mobile wireless usage contracts grant customers access to standard talk, text and data mobile services. Ting Mobile contracts are billed based on the customer's selected rate plan, which can be either usage based or an unlimited plan. All rate plan options are charged to customers on a postpaid, monthly basis at the end of their billing cycle. As discussed above, on August 1, 2020, the Company and its wholly owned Subsidiary Ting, Inc. entered into a Purchase Agreement with DISH pursuant to which Ting sold substantially all of its retail mobile customer relationships, and mobile handset and SIM inventory to DISH and granted the right to use and option to purchase the Ting brand. Select MNO agreements previously established to operate the Ting Mobile MVNO business were assigned to DISH as part of this Purchase Agreement. Ting, Inc. only retains a small subset of customers to which it continues to provide retail mobile services. All future revenues associated with Retail Mobile Services stream will only be for this subset of customers retained by Ting, Inc. Ting Mobile services are primarily contracted through the Ting website, for one month at a time and contain no commitment to renew the contract following each customer's monthly billing cycle. The Company's billing cycle for all Ting Mobile customers is computed based on the customer's activation date. In order to recognize revenue as the Company satisfies its obligations, we compute the amount of revenues earned but not billed from the end of each billing cycle to the end of each reporting period. In addition, revenues associated with the sale of wireless devices and accessories are recognized when title and risk of loss is transferred to the customer and shipment has occurred. Incentive marketing credits given to customers are recorded as a reduction of revenue. As part of the DISH Purchase Agreement, as a form of consideration for the sale of the customer relationships, the Company receives a payout on the margin associated with the legacy customer base sold to DISH, over a period of 10 years. This has been classified as Other Income and not considered revenue in the current period. The Company also operated the Roam Mobility brands historically and through the first half of the 2020 fiscal year, but decided to shut down the businesses due to the considerable lack of demand for SIM-enabled roaming services as a result of the limited business and leisure travel brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic. Our Roam Mobility brands offered standard talk, text and data mobile services. Roam customers prepaid for their usage through the Roam Mobility website. When prepayments were received the amount was deferred, and subsequently recognized as the Company satisfies its obligation to provide mobile services. In addition, revenues associated with the sale of SIM cards were recognized when title and risk of loss is transferred to the subscriber and shipment occurred. Incentive marketing credits given to customers were recorded as a reduction of revenue. Mobile Services - Mobile Platform Services Tucows' MSE platform provides network access, provisioning and billing services for MVNOs. These platform fees are billed to our MVNO customers monthly, on a postpaid basis. The fees are based on the volume of their subscribers utilizing the platform during a given month. The Company recognizes revenue over this new revenue stream as the Company satisfies its obligations to provide MSE services on a monthly basis. For any bundled professional services where proceeds are collected before the service period as part of MSE Platform Revenues, the professional services revenue is initially deferred and recognized only as the Company performs its obligation to provide professional services. 31 Table of Contents Mobile Services - Other Professional Services This revenue stream includes any other professional services, including transitional services, earned in connection with Tucows' new MSE business. These are billed to our customers monthly at set and established rates for services provided in period. The Company recognizes revenue over this new revenue stream as the Company satisfies its obligations to provide professional services. Fiber Internet Services Fiber Internet Services derive revenues from providing Ting Internet to individuals and small businesses in select cities. In addition, we provide billing, provisioning and customer care software solutions to ISPs through our Platypus billing software. Ting Internet access contracts provide customers Internet access at their home or business through the installation and use of our fiber optic network. Ting Internet contracts are generally prepaid and grant customers with unlimited bandwidth based on a fixed price per month basis. Since consideration is collected before the service period, revenue is initially deferred and recognized as the Company performs its obligation to provide Internet access. Ting Internet services are primarily contracted through the Ting website, for one month at a time and contain no commitment to renew the contract following each customers monthly billing cycle. The Companys billing cycle for all Ting Internet access customers is computed based on the customers activation date. In order to recognize revenue as the Company satisfies its obligations, we compute the amount of revenues earned but not billed from the end of each billing cycle to the end of each reporting period. In addition, revenues associated with the sale of Internet hardware to subscribers are recognized when title and risk of loss is transferred to the subscriber and shipment has occurred. Incentive marketing credits given to customers are recorded as a reduction of revenue. In those cases, where payment is not received at the time of sale, revenue is not recognized until contract inception unless the collection of the related accounts receivable is reasonably assured. The Company records costs that reflect expected refunds, rebates and credit card charge-backs as a reduction of revenues at the time of the sale based on historical experiences and current expectations. (b) Domain Services Wholesale - Domain Services Domain registration contracts, which can be purchased for terms of one to ten years, provide our resellers and retail registrant customers with the exclusive right to a personalized internet address from which to build an online presence. The Company enters into domain registration contracts in connection with each new, renewed and transferred-in domain registration. At the inception of the contract, the Company charges and collects the registration fee for the entire registration period. Though fees are collected upfront, revenue from domain registrations are recognized rateably over the registration period as domain registration contracts contain a right to access license of IP, which is a distinct performance obligation measured over time. The registration period begins once the Company has confirmed that the requested domain name has been appropriately recorded in the registry under contractual performance standards. Historically, our wholesale domain service has constituted the largest portion of our business and encompasses all of our services as an accredited registrar related to the registration, renewal, transfer and management of domain names. In addition, this service fuels other revenue categories as it often is the initial service for which a reseller will engage us, enabling us to follow on with other services and allowing us to add to our portfolio by purchasing names registered through us upon their expiration. We expect Domain services will continue to be the largest portion of our business and will continue to enable us to sell add-on services. The Company is an ICANN accredited registrar. Thus, the Company is the primary obligor with our reseller and retail registrant customers and is responsible for the fulfillment of our registrar services to those parties. As a result, the Company reports revenue in the amount of the fees we receive directly from our reseller and retail registrant customers. Our reseller customers maintain the primary obligor relationship with their retail customers, establish pricing and retain credit risk to those customers. Accordingly, the Company does not recognize any revenue related to transactions between our reseller customers and their ultimate retail customers. Wholesale Value-Added Services We derive revenue from domain related value-added services like digital certifications, WHOIS privacy and hosted email and by providing our resellers and retail registrant customers with tools and additional functionality to be used in conjunction with domain registrations. All domain related value-added services are considered distinct performance obligations which transfer the promised service to the customer over the contracted term. Fees charged to customers for domain related value-added services are collected at the inception of the contract, and revenue is recognized on a straight-line basis over the contracted term, consistent with the satisfaction of the performance obligations. We also derive revenue from other value-added services, which primarily consists of Internet hosting services on the OpenSRS and eNom domain expiry streams. Retail We derive revenues from Hover and eNoms retail properties through the sale of retail domain name registration and email services to individuals and small businesses. Portfolio The Company sells the rights to its portfolio of surname domains used in its RealNames email service. Revenue generated from sale of domain name contracts, containing a distinct performance obligation to transfer the domain name rights under the Companys control, is generally recognized once the rights have been transferred and payment has been received in full. Domain portfolio names are sold through our RealNames email service. The Company expects portfolio revenue to decline into 2021 and starting in the first quarter of 2021 will no longer separately breakout Portfolio revenues. 32 Table of Contents Valuation of Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Long-Lived Assets The excess of the purchase price over the fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities from our acquisitions is recorded as goodwill. At December 31, 2020, we had $116.3 million in goodwill related to our acquisitions and $47.4 million in intangible assets comprised of indefinite life intangibl es of $12.3 milli on and finite life i ntangible assets of $35.3 million. A t December 31, 2019, we had $109.8 million in goodwill related to our acquisitions and $57.7 million in intangible assets comprised of indefinite life intangi bles of $12.3 mil lion and finite life intangible assets of $45.4 mil lion. We report our financial results as two operating segments, Domain Services, being wholesale and retail domain name registration services, value added services and portfolio, and Network Access which derives revenue from Mobile Services and Fiber Internet services. Ninety-three percent of goodwill relates to our Domain Services operating segment and 7% of goodwill relates to our Network Access segment. Of our goodwill balance, $ 94.1 million is not deductible for tax purposes. Eighty-nine percent of intangible assets relate to our Domain Services operating segment and 11% of intangible assets relate to our Network Access operating segment. We account for goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Boards (FASBs) authoritative guidance, which requires that goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets are not amortized, but are subject to an annual impairment test. We complete our impairment test on an annual basis, during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year, or more frequently, if changes in facts and circumstances indicate that impairment indicators are present. Our indefinite life intangible assets consist of surname domain names and direct navigation domain names. In order to maintain our rights to these domain names, we pay annual renewal fees to the applicable domain name registries. Over the course of time, we sometimes decide not to renew certain under-performing domain names and incur an impairment charge associated with such non-renewal. There was no impairment recorded on indefinite-life intangible assets during 2020, 2019 and 2018. With regard to long-lived assets comprised of property and equipment and finite life intangible assets, we continually evaluate whether events or circumstances have occurred that indicate the remaining estimated useful lives of our definite-life intangible assets may warrant revision or whether the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable and exceed their fair value. We use an estimate of the related undiscounted cash flows over the remaining life of the asset in measuring whether the asset is recoverable. During Fiscal 2020 there was a $1.4 million impairment recorded on definite-life intangible assets associated with the shutdown of the Roam Mobility brands discussed above. There was no impairment recorded on definite-life intangible assets and property and equipment recorded during 2019 or 2018. We performed a qualitative assessment to determine whether there were events or circumstances which would lead to a determination, whether it is more likely than not, that goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets have been impaired. In performing the qualitative testing, we made an evaluation of the impact of various factors to the expected future cash flows attributable to our operating segments and to the assumed discount rate which would be used to present value those cash flows. Consideration was given to factors such as macro-economic, industry and market conditions including the capital markets and the competitive environment amongst others. We concluded that there were no indications of impairment under the qualitative approach. The analysis was consistent with the approach we utilized in our analysis performed in prior years. Any changes to our key assumptions about our businesses and our prospects, or changes in market conditions, could cause the fair value of our operating segments to fall below its carrying value, resulting in a potential impairment charge. In addition, changes in our organizational structure or how our management allocates resources and assesses performance, could result in a change in our operating segments, requiring a reallocation and updated impairment analysis of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets. A goodwill or intangible asset impairment charge could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements because of the significance of goodwill and intangible assets to our consolidated balance sheet. There was no further impairment of goodwill or intangible assets as a result of the annual impairment tests completed during the fourth quarters of 2020, 2019 or 2018. 33 Table of Contents Accounting for Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our uncertain tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. We apply a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon settlement. Although we believe we have adequately reserved for our uncertain tax positions, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate based on new information that may become available. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. As we account for income taxes under the asset and liability method, we recognize deferred tax assets or liabilities for the anticipated future tax effects of temporary differences between the financial statement basis and the tax basis of our assets and liabilities. We record a valuation allowance to reduce the net deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that the benefit from the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, historical and future levels of income, expectations and risks associated with estimates of future taxable income and ongoing tax planning strategies are considered. In the event that it is determined that the deferred tax assets to be realized in the future would be in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance would be recorded. This adjustment would increase income in the period that such determination was made. Likewise, should it be determined that all or part of a recorded net deferred tax asset would not be realized in the future, an adjustment to increase the deferred tax asset valuation allowance would be charged to income in the period that such determination would be made. At December 31, 2020, the valuation allowance of $11.2 million was related to foreign tax credits and net operating losses that we are not expected to realize. On a periodic basis, we evaluate the probability that our deferred tax asset balance will be recovered to assess its realizability. To the extent we believe it is more likely than not that some portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized, we will increase the valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets. Realization of our deferred tax assets is dependent primarily upon future taxable income. Our judgments regarding future profitability may change due to future market conditions, changes in U.S. or international tax laws and other factors. These changes, if any, may require possible material adjustments to these deferred tax assets, impacting net income or net loss in the period when such determinations are made. In connection with the eNom acquisition in 2017, we acquired deferred tax liabilities primarily composed of prepaid registry fees. As a result, we aligned our tax methodology pertaining to the deductibility of prepaid registry fees for our other subsidiaries. In the first quarter of 2019, we determined that we were in technical violation with respect to the administrative application of the accounting method change relating to the deductibility of prepaid registry fees for these additional subsidiaries. In February 2019, the Company filed an application for relief ("9100 Relief") to correct the issue. In November 2019, the Company was granted 9100 Relief and was given 30 days to file the appropriate forms based on prescribed instructions. The Company timely filed the forms with the IRS in December 2019 and no further action is necessary. We now await the final IRS response and acceptance of the change in accounting method. Management is of the view that it is more likely than not that the IRS will accept the 9100 Relief and filing of the prescribed forms. As such, no additional tax uncertainties or related interest or penalties have been recorded as at of December 31, 2019 and 2020. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the Act) was signed into law making significant changes to the Internal Revenue Code. Changes include, but are not limited to, a federal corporate tax rate decrease from 35% to 21% for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, the transition of U.S international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial system, and a one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of foreign earnings. 34 Table of Contents Recently Issued Accounting Standards See Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report for information regarding recently issued accounting standards. Current COVID-19 Response Our Employees Tucows is a global business. Our first consideration during the global pandemic as a result of the disease caused by the COVID-19 outbreak is for the health and safety of our employees, our customers and their communities, all around the world. Tucows has long encouraged a culture of remote work even prior to this global pandemic, and on Sunday March 8, 2020 Tucows executive leadership announced that all employees who could conceivably work from home were encouraged to do so. Tucows is actively and strongly encouraging its workforce to heed travel and all other emergency advisories, including social distancing and where appropriate, self-isolation. We expect our work from home policy to remain in effect until emergency state and governmental declarations where we have physical offices have ended and we believe the risk of community spread of the disease has subsided. Given our experience with remote work prior to COVID-19, we have not and do not expect to have productivity issues while the overwhelming majority of our office-based workforce is dispersed. For the small group of employees who are unable work from home during this time, including our order fulfillment and Fiber installation teams, many of whom work in the field, they are encouraged to practice social distancing and to continue to follow hygiene best practices and safety protocols as outlined by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. At the initial stage of the COVID-19 outbreak, we took steps to cancel and reschedule all in-home installation and service appointments across our Ting Fiber footprint. Since then, the Ting Internet team has established an install solution for our employees and customers that minimizes risks associated with person-to-person contact. Our Customers We recognize the important role we play within the Internet space and are committed to continue providing quality service during the COVID-19 outbreak. Services like individual and wholesale domain names, email and hosting do not rely on in-person interaction or the supply chain in the same way physical products and services do. We are providing uninterrupted services for all Domains related services, across our OpenSRS, eNom, Ascio, EPAG and Hover brands. Our retail mobile services and new MSE business is without any physical storefronts, and is similarly well-positioned to weather this pandemic. Our Fiber Internet business does not have bandwidth caps or other such limitations. Likewise, our networks are built with the capacity to accommodate future needs. To help our customers remain connected at home during this time, we upgraded all our lower-tier fiber customers to symmetrical gigabit access at no charge. Any additional traffic from our customers working from home has not had and is not expected to have any negative impact on connectivity. As discussed above, our install solution was implemented in early May 2020. With this service limitation, new customer acquisition will remain slower than pre-pandemic levels of growth and installation. Even with an install solution that minimizes risks, customers may be unwilling to have service personnel visit their homes or offices. Our Community Tucows believes the Internet is essential infrastructure and an immensely powerful tool, especially in times of crises where coordination is essential. From an early point in the current global crisis, it was clear to us that we were going to need to do something new and different in how we responded to COVID-19 related domain registrations. Many of these domains are registered for good, helpful purposes, such as community organization, dissemination of healthcare information, and recording peoples experiences through this pandemic. Others, however, purport to sell COVID-19 cures, vaccines, or tests, none of which are legitimately available on the market at the time of the registration and many of which pose a significant health risk to the general public. There are three major components to our COVID-19 activities related to domain registrations: (i) identification, (ii) assessment for harm, and (iii) stakeholder engagement. It is important to note that our response to each and every issue that we find is contextual and dependent on the specific circumstances. We expect to return to our regular procedures as the pandemic and corresponding risks subsides. Although this approach vastly increases the burden on our compliance staff and puts us in the uncomfortable position of having to assess the level of harm represented by a COVID-related domain and the website to which it resolves - we feel these circumstances are exceptional and are determined to do our part. In order to provide Internet access and assistance to residents of cities and towns that are part of the Ting Fiber network, we have set up free, fiber-fed, drive-up Wi-Fi hotspots. These hotspots enable those with no home Internet access, or insufficient access, to access critical services like online learning and telehealth services, work remotely, check in on and access vital health, government and other services and generally access information. These hotspots will remain in operation as long as they are needed and as long as it is safe and prudent to do so. We have not experienced any material resource constraints nor do we foresee requiring any material expenditures to continue to implement our business continuity plans described above. 35 Table of Contents Current and expected COVID-19 Impacts Financial & Operational Impacts Further to the below discussion within this Annual Report around the financial condition and results of operations for the current period financial results, the current impact from COVID-19 has been limited to the Network Access segment, primarily impacting Mobile Services. Management continues to assess the impact of COVID-19 regularly and we do not expect the impact to substantially worsen in 2021, should the COVID-19 pandemic persist. On a segment basis, our current assessment is as follows: Network Access Mobile Services : At the outbreak of the pandemic, Mobile services usage dropped significantly as customer usage patterns changed. As a result of regional lockdowns and shelter-in-place orders throughout the United States, more customers were utilizing at-home WIFI networks rather than connecting to cellular networks; which had a corresponding negative impact on our revenues throughout the year. Similarly, with business and leisure travel significantly halted, there was limited demand for SIM-enabled roaming services. As a result of the pandemic, the Company decided to shut down the operations of the Roam Mobility brands given the expected long-term reduction to both business and leisure travel. Additionally, on August 1, 2020, the Company entered into a Purchase Agreement with DISH pursuant to which it sold substantially all of the mobile customer relationships, and mobile handset and SIM inventory to DISH and granted the right to use and purchase the Ting brand. Ting, Inc. only retains a small subset of customers to which it continues to provide retail mobile services. However, since the outbreak of the pandemic we have seen usage stabilize for Ting Mobile, albeit at levels still lower than before the pandemic. This combined with the fact that our exposure is also significantly limited given the above mentioned sale of the majority of our customer relationships to DISH in the current period. Our new MSE platform and professional services businesses are completely online and do not rely on physical storefronts to attract or service customers needs. We are fully prepared to continue providing uninterrupted Mobile related enablement services to our MVNO customers. We have not and do not expect any corresponding material negative impacts on our revenues for these new revenue streams, nor do we expect the impact to substantially worsen over the coming months. Network Access Fiber Internet Services : As discussed above, upon news of the COVID-19 outbreak, we took the major step to cancel and reschedule all in-home installation and service appointments across our Ting Fiber footprint. Since then, the Ting Internet team has established a smart-install solution. This smart-install solution is faster and more efficient than our existing process, all while protecting the health and safety of our employees and customers alike. Although new customer installations initially slowed near the end of the first quarter of 2020, we are now seeing returned growth in both subscribers under management as well as serviceable addresses relative to the prior quarter. Additionally, our existing customer base and most recent acquisition of Cedar both continue to provide increased recurring revenue for us to support this business relative to prior years. Domain Services: Domain Services are foundational to the functioning of the Internet. As discussed above, services like individual and wholesale domain names, email and hosting do not rely on in-person interaction or the supply chain in the same way physical products and services do. We have not experienced any negative COVID-19 related impacts, either financially or operationally for Domains related services, across our OpenSRS, eNom, Ascio, EPAG & Hover brands. As more businesses face the reality of prolonged physical shutdown and move to establish an online presence, we have seen growth in this segment, primarily driven by large volume resellers in our OpenSRS brand where total domains under management increased by 1.8 million domain names since March 31, 2020, the quarter-end closest to the onset of the pandemic. This growth rate in domains under management was driven by the pandemic, and may not be sustained in the future as domain registrations plateau. Our results of operations for the current period financial results are in line with managements expectation for the period given product, customer mix and current brand trajectories. We will continue to monitor the impact but do not foresee any negative financial or operational impacts associated with this segment. Liquidity & Financial Resource Impacts For a complete assessment of our liquidity and covenant positions please reference the relevant discussions within this Annual Report. We have experienced no significant change to our liquidity position or credit risk as a result of the financial and operational impacts related to COVID-19, as discussed above. Our cost or access to funding sources has not changed and is not reasonably likely to change in the near future as a result of the pandemic. Our sources and uses of cash have not been materially impacted and there is no known material uncertainty about our ongoing ability meet covenants or repayment terms of our credit agreements at this time. Internal Controls over Financial Reporting Tucows has long encouraged a culture of remote work even prior to COVID-19. Our financial reporting systems and our internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure