ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains, in addition to historical information, forward-looking statements by us with regard to our expectations as to financial results and other aspects of our business that involve risks and uncertainties and may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as may, should, anticipate, believe, plan, estimate, expect and intend, and other similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained in this report include statements regarding, among other things: the competition we expect to encounter as our business develops and competes in a broader range of Internet services; the Company's foreign currency requirements, specifically for the Canadian dollar; Platform Services, and fixed Internet access subscriber growth and retention rates; our belief regarding the underlying platform for our domain services, our expectation regarding the trend of sales of domain names and advertising; our expectations regarding portfolio revenue, our belief that, by increasing the number of services we offer, we will be able to generate higher revenues; our expectation regarding litigation; the potential impact of current and pending claims on our business; our valuations of certain deferred tax assets; our expectation to collect our outstanding receivables, net of our allowance for doubtful accounts; our expectation regarding fluctuations in certain expense and cost categories; our expectations regarding our unrecognized tax; our expectations regarding cash from operations to fund our business; the impact of cancellations of or amendments to market development fund programs under which we receive funds, our expectation regarding our ability to manage realized gains/losses from foreign currency contracts; the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, operations and financial performance; and general business conditions and economic uncertainty. These statements are based on managements current expectations and are subject to a number of uncertainties and risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Many factors affect our ability to achieve our objectives and to successfully develop and commercialize our services including: Our ability to continue to generate sufficient working capital to meet our operating requirements; Our ability to service our debt commitments; Our ability to maintain a good working relationship with our vendors and customers; The ability of vendors to continue to supply our needs; Actions by our competitors; Our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in our business; Our ability to effectively manage our business; The effects of any material impairment of our goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets; Our ability to obtain and maintain approvals from regulatory authorities on regulatory issues; Our ability to invest in the build-out of fiber networks into selected towns and cities to provide Internet access services to residential and commercial customers while maintaining the development and sales of our established services; Adverse tax consequences such as those related to changes in tax laws or tax rates or their interpretations, including with respect to the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017; The application of judgment in determining our global provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets or liabilities or other tax liabilities given the ultimate tax determination is uncertain; Our ability to effectively integrate acquisitions; Our ability to monitor, assess and respond to the rapidly changing impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. Our current assessment of expected impacts has been included below as part of the Opportunities, Challenges & Risks section. Our ability to collect anticipated payments from DISH in connection with the 10-year payment stream that is a function of the margin generated by the transferred subscribers over a 10-year period pursuant to the terms of the DISH Purchase Agreement; Pending or new litigation; and Factors set forth under the caption Item 1A Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021 filed with the SEC on March 1, 2022 (the 2021 Annual Report). As previously disclosed the under the caption Item 1A Risk Factors in our 2021 Annual Report, data protection regulations may impose legal obligations on us that we cannot meet or that conflict with our ICANN contractual requirements. 23 Table of Contents This list of factors that may affect our future performance and financial and competitive position and the accuracy of forward-looking statements is illustrative, but it is by no means exhaustive. Accordingly, all forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based on information available to us as of the date of this document, and we assume no obligation to update these cautionary statements or any forward-looking statements, except as required by law. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. We qualify all the forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q by the foregoing cautionary statements. OVERVIEW Our mission is to provide simple useful services that help people unlock the power of the Internet. We accomplish this by reducing the complexity of our customers experience as they access the Internet (at home or on the go) and while using Internet services such as domain name registration, email and other Internet related services. During the first quarter of 2022, the Company completed a reorganization of its reporting structure into three operating and reportable segments: Fiber Internet Services, Platform Services and Domain Services. Previously, we disclosed the three operating and reportable segments: Fiber Internet Services, Mobile Services and Domain Services. The change to our reportable operating segments was the result of a shift in our business and management structures that was initiated in 2021 and completed during the first quarter of 2022. The operations supporting what was previously known as our Mobile Services segment have become increasingly operationally distinct between our mobile retail services and our platform services. Through the reorganization of our reporting structure, the Mobile Services segment was changed to the Platform Services segment, which no longer includes the 10-year payment stream on transferred legacy subscribers earned as part of the DISH Purchase Agreement as well as the retail sale of mobile phones, retail telephony services and transition services, all of which are not considered a part of our core business operations with the shift from Mobile Virtual Network Operator (MVNO) to Platform Service provider. The Platform Services segment includes our platform and professional services offerings (now branded as Wavelo), as well as the billing solutions to Internet services providers ("ISPs") (branded as Platypus), that was previously reported under the Fiber Internet Services segment. The Fiber Internet Services segment now only contains the operating results of our retail high speed Internet access operations, excluding the billing solutions moved to the new Platform Services segment. The product offerings included in the Domain Services segment remains unchanged. The three segments are differentiated primarily by their services, the markets they serve and the regulatory environments in which they operate. Our management regularly reviews our operating results on a consolidated basis, principally to make decisions about how we utilize our resources and to measure our consolidated operating performance. To assist us in forecasting growth and to help us monitor the effectiveness of our operational strategies, our management regularly reviews revenues, operating results and performance for each of our service offerings in order to gain more depth and understanding of the key business metrics driving our business. Commencing in the first quarter of 2022, our Chief Executive Officer (CEO), who is also our chief operating decision maker , reviewed the operating results of Fiber Internet Services, Platform Services and Domains Services as three distinct segments in order to make key operating decisions as well as evaluate segment performance. Accordingly, effective January 1, 2022 we report Fiber Internet Services, Platform Services and Domain Services revenue separately. The 10-year payment stream on transferred legacy subscribers as well as retail sale of mobile phones, retail telephony services and transition services will be excluded from segment EBITDA results as they are no longer centrally managed and not monitored by or reported to our CEO by segment. For the three months ended March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021, we reported revenue of $81.1 million and $70.9 million, respectively. Fiber Internet Services Fiber Internet Services, primarily branded as Ting Internet, Cedar, and Simply Bits includes the provision of fixed high-speed Internet access services to select towns throughout the United States, with further expansion underway to both new and existing markets. Our primary sales channel is through the Ting website. The primary focus of this segment is to provide reliable Gigabit Internet services to consumer and business customers. Revenues are all generated in the U.S. and are provided on a monthly basis and have no fixed contract terms. Platform Services Platform Services, primarily branded as Wavelo and Platypus includes the provision of full-service platforms and professional services providing a variety of solutions that support Communication Services providers ("CSPs"), including subscription and billing management, network orchestration and provisioning, and individual developer tools. Wavelo's focus is to provide accessible telecom software to CSPs globally, minimizing network and technical barriers and improving internet access worldwide. Wavelo's suite of flexible, cloud-based software simplifies the management of mobile and internet network access, enabling CSPs to better utilize their existing infrastructure, focus on customer experience and scale their businesses faster. Wavelo launches as a proven asset for CSPs, with DISH using Wavelos Mobile Network Operating System ("MONOS") software to drive additional value within its Digital Operator Platform since early 2021. More recently, Ting Internet has also integrated Wavelos Internet Service Operating System ("ISOS") software to enable faster subscriber growth and footprint expansion. Wavelo revenues are all generated in the U.S. and our customer agreements have set contract lengths with the underlying CSP. Similarly, Platypus revenues are largely generated in the U.S., with a small portion earned in Canada and other countries. Domain Services Domain Services includes wholesale and retail domain name registration services, as well as value added services derived through our OpenSRS, eNom, Ascio, EPAG and Hover brands. We earn revenues primarily from the registration fees charged to resellers in connection with new, renewed and transferred domain name registrations. In addition, we earn revenues from the sale of retail domain name registration and email services to individuals and small businesses. Domain Services revenues are attributed to the country in which the contract originates, which is primarily in Canada and the U.S for OpenSRS and eNom brands. Ascio domain services contracts and EPAG agreements primarily originate in Europe. Our primary distribution channel is a global network of approximately 35,000 resellers that operate in over 150 countries and who typically provide their customers, the end-users of Internet-based services, with solutions for establishing and maintaining an online presence. Our primary focus is serving the needs of this network of resellers by providing the broadest portfolio of generic top-level domain (gTLD) and the country code top-level domain options and related services, a white-label platform that facilitates the provisioning and management of domain names, a powerful Application Program Interface, easy-to-use interfaces, comprehensive management and reporting tools, and proactive and attentive customer service. Our services are integral to the solutions that our resellers deliver to their customers. We provide second tier support to our resellers by email, chat and phone in the event resellers experience issues or problems with our services. In addition, our Network Operating Center proactively monitors all services and network infrastructure to address deficiencies before customer services are impacted. 24 Table of Contents We believe that the underlying platforms for our services are among the most mature, reliable and functional reseller-oriented provisioning and management platforms in our industry, and we continue to refine, evolve and improve these services for both resellers and end-users. Our business model is characterized primarily by non-refundable, up-front payments, which lead to recurring revenue and positive operating cash flow. Wholesale, primarily branded as OpenSRS, eNom, EPAG and Ascio, derives revenue from its domain service and from providing value-added services. The OpenSRS, eNom, EPAG and Ascio domain services manage 25.0 million domain names under the Tucows, eNom, EPAG and Ascio ICANN registrar accreditations and for other registrars under their own accreditations. Value-Added Services include hosted email which provides email delivery and webmail access to millions of mailboxes, Internet security services, WHOIS privacy, publishing tools and other value-added services. All of these services are made available to end-users through a network of 35,000 web hosts, ISPs, and other resellers around the world. In addition, we also derive revenue by monetizing domain names which are near the end of their lifecycle through advertising or auction sale. Retail, primarily the Hover and eNom portfolio of websites, including eNom, and eNom Central, derive revenues from the sale of domain name registration, email services to individuals and small businesses. Retail also includes our Personal Names Service based on over 36,000 surname domains that allows roughly two-thirds of Americans to purchase a surname-based email address. The retail segment includes the sale of the r ights to its portfolio of surname domains used in connection with our Realnames email service as well as our Exact Hosting Service, that provides Linux hosting services for websites of individuals and small businesses. KEY BUSINESS METRICS AND NON-GAAP MEASURES We regularly review a number of business metrics, including the following key metrics and non-GAAP measures, to assist us in evaluating our business, measure the performance of our business model, identify trends impacting our business, determine resource allocations, formulate financial projections and make strategic business decisions. The following tables set forth the key business metrics which we believe are the primary indicators of our performance for the periods presented: Adjusted EBITDA Tucows reports all financial information in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, to assist financial statement users in an assessment of our historical performance, we typically disclose and discuss a non-GAAP financial measure, adjusted EBITDA, on investor conference calls and related events that exclude certain non-cash and other charges as we believe that the non-GAAP information enhances investors overall understanding of our financial performance. Please see discussion of adjusted EBITDA in the Results of Operations section below. Ting Internet March 31, 2022 2021 (in '000's) Ting Internet accounts under management 28 17 Ting Internet owned infrastructure serviceable addresses 81 59 Ting Internet partner infrastructure serviceable addresses 17 12 Domain Services For the Three Months Ended March 31,(1) 2022 2021 (in 000's) Total new, renewed and transferred-in domain name transactions 2 5,951 6,247 Domains under management ( 1 ) For a discussion of these period-to-period changes in the domains provisioned and domains under management and how they impacted our financial results see the Net Revenues discussion below. ( 2 ) Includes all transactions processed under our accreditations for our resellers and our retail brands, as well as transactions processed on behalf of other registrars using our platform. Domain Services March 31, 2022 2021 (in 000's) Registered using Registrar Accreditation belonging to the Tucows Group 18,651 19,787 Registered using Registrar Accreditation belonging to Resellers 6,369 5,996 Total domain names under management 25,020 25,783 25 Table of Contents OPPORTUNITIES, CHALLENGES AND RISKS Our revenue is primarily realized in U.S. dollars and a major portion of our operating expenses are paid in Canadian dollars. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar may have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results from operations. In particular, we may be adversely affected by a significant weakening of the U.S. dollar against the Canadian dollar on a quarterly and an annual basis. Our policy with respect to foreign currency exposure is to manage our financial exposure to certain foreign exchange fluctuations with the objective of neutralizing some or all of the impact of foreign currency exchange movements by entering into foreign exchange forward contracts to mitigate the exchange risk on a portion of our Canadian dollar exposure. We may not always enter into such forward contracts and such contracts may not always be available and economical for us. Additionally, the forward rates established by the contracts may be less advantageous than the market rate upon settlement. Fiber Internet Services As an ISP, we have invested and expect to continue to invest in new fiber to the home (FTTH) deployments in select markets in the United States. The investments are a reflection of our ongoing efforts to build FTTH network via public-private partnerships in communities we identify as having strong, unmet demand for FTTH services. Given the significant upfront build and operational investments for these FTTH deployments, there is risk that future technological and regulatory changes as well as competitive responses from incumbent local providers, may result in us not fully recovering these investments. The communications industry continues to compete on the basis of network reach and performance, types of services and devices offered, and price. Platform Services Wavelo launches as a proven asset for CSPs, with DISH using Wavelos Mobile Network Operating System ("MONOS") software to drive additional value within its Digital Operator Platform since early 2021. More recently, Ting Internet has also integrated Wavelos ("ISOS") software to enable faster subscriber growth and footprint expansion. With our external platform and professional services revenues concentrated to one customer in DISH, we are exposed to significant risk if we are unable to maintain this customer relationship or establish new relationships for any our Platforms in the future. Additionally, our revenues as a platform provider are directly tied to the subscriber volumes of DISH's MVNO or Mobile Network Operator ("MNO") networks, so our profitability is contingent on the ability of DISH to continue to add subscribers onto our platforms. Domain Services The increased competition in the market for Internet services in recent years, which we expect will continue to intensify in the short and long term, poses a material risk for us. As new registrars are introduced, existing competitors expand service offerings and competitors offer price discounts to gain market share, we face pricing pressure, which can adversely impact our revenues and profitability. To address these risks, we have focused on leveraging the scalability of our infrastructure and our ability to provide proactive and attentive customer service to aggressively compete to attract new customers and to maintain existing customers. Substantially all of our Domain Services revenue is derived from domain name registrations and related value-added services from wholesale and retail customers using our provisioning and management platforms. The market for wholesale registrar services is both price sensitive and competitive and is evolving with the introduction of new gTLDs, particularly for large volume customers, such as large web hosting companies and owners of large portfolios of domain names. We have a relatively limited ability to increase the pricing of domain name registrations without negatively impacting our ability to maintain or grow our customer base. Growth in our Domain Services revenue is dependent upon our ability to continue to attract and retain customers by maintaining consistent domain name registration and value-added service renewal rates and to grow our customer relationships through refining, evolving and improving our provisioning platforms and customer service for both resellers and end-users. In addition, we also generate revenue through pay-per-click advertising and through the OpenSRS Domain Expiry Stream. The revenue associated with names sales and advertising has recently experienced flat to declining trends due to the uncertainty around the implementation of ICANNs New gTLD Program, lower traffic and advertising yields in the marketplace, which we expect to continue. From time-to-time certain of our vendors provide us with market development funds to expand or maintain the market position for their services. Any decision by these vendors to cancel or amend these programs for any reason may result in payments in future periods not being commensurate with what we have achieved during past periods. 26 Table of Contents Other opportunities, challenges and risks As described above, the Company is entitled to a long-term payment stream that is a function of the margin generated by the transferred subscribers over the 10-year term of the DISH Purchase agreement. This consideration structure may not prove to be successful or profitable in the long-term to us if the existing subscriber base churns at an above average rate. Additionally, given DISH controls the revenues and costs incurred associated with the acquired subscribers, there could arise a situation where profitability for the subscriber base is diminished either by lower price points or cost inflation. As part of the transactions contemplated by the DISH Purchase agreement, the Company retained a small number of customer accounts associated with one MNO agreement that was not reassigned to DISH at time of sale. We continue to be subject to the minimum revenue commitment s previously agreed to with this excluded MNO agreement. The Company is able to continue adding customers under the excluded MNO network in order to meet the commitment. However, with no direct ability to change customer pricing or renegotiate contract costs or terms, the Company may be unable to meet the minimum commitments with this MNO partner and could incur significant and recurring penalties until such a time that the contract is complete. These penalties would negatively impact our operational performance and financial results if enforced by the MNO. During the three months ended March 31, 2022, the Company has accrued for $0.3 million of penalties in connection with failing to meet the minimum commitments with the MNO partner, and expects to continue to incur penalties through Fiscal 2022 and thereafter until the contract is complete. As of March 31, 2022, the Company had $207.9 million outstanding on its $240 million credit facility; the Second Amended 2019 Credit Facility (defined below) which matures in June 2023. The agreement governing our credit facility requires that the Company comply with certain financial covenants during the term of the agreement. Any breach in our financial covenants would result in a default, which in turn could result in the acceleration of our obligations under the credit facility. As at March 31, 2022 the Company was in compliance with all of its financial covenants under its credit facility. The Company is committed to compliance with all restrictions and actively monitors them, with compliance governing our approach to cash flow spending and forecasting. In response to the above, and in order to continue the Companys planned expansion of the Ting Internet footprint, the Company has been actively exploring additional financing alternatives. The Company may be required to obtain additional financing, which may include either debt or equity financing, a partnership or collaboration arrangement with a third party or an amendment, replacement or refinancing its credit facility. We may not be able to secure additional financing on favorable terms, or at all, at the time when we need that funding, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's prospects and results of operations in the future. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires us to make estimates and judgements that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. There have been no material changes to the critical accounting estimates as previously disclosed in Part II, Item 7 of our 2021 Annual Report. Current COVID-19 response and expected impacts The ongoing global COVID-19 pandemic continues to characterize Fiscal 2022 thus far, however the financial and operational impacts from COVID-19 on our business have been limited. Over the last two years, we've monitored the situation and its impacts on our business but have ultimately seen trends stabilize, with continued recovery in U.S. markets due to large-scale vaccination programs. Management continues to assess the impact regularly but expects limited financial and operational impact through the upcoming fiscal year, should the COVID-19 pandemic persist. While the spread of COVID-19 may eventually be contained or mitigated, there is no guarantee that a future outbreak will not occur as evidenced by numerous variants of the virus emerging. Since the onset of this pandemic in 2020, all employees who could conceivably work from home were and continue to be encouraged to do so. Since then we have transitioned to defining ourselves as a remote-first organization, and for the small group of employees who are unable to work from home, including our order fulfillment and Fiber installation teams, many of whom work in the field, they are encouraged to practice social distancing and to continue to follow hygiene best practices and safety protocols as outlined by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic. In 2020, the Ting Internet team established an installation solution for our employees and customers that minimizes risks associated with person-to-person contact and they continue to effectively deploy this installation solution currently. We have also implemented a vaccination policy requiring those employees who work from a Company office, meet in person with customers or travel by plan or train for business purposes to be fully vaccinated. We have not experienced any productivity issues, material resource constraints nor do we foresee requiring any material expenditures to continue to implement our business continuity plans described above. Likewise, we have not experienced nor do we foresee any future impacts to our liquidity position, credit risk, internal controls or impacts to our accounting policies as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. 27 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE three months ended March 31, 2022 AS COMPARED TO THE three months ended March 31, 2021 NET REVENUES Fiber Internet Services Fiber Internet Services, primarily branded as Ting Internet, Cedar, and Simply Bits includes the provision of fixed high-speed Internet access services to select towns throughout the United States, with further expansion underway to both new and existing markets. Our primary sales channel is through the Ting website. The primary focus of this segment is to provide reliable Gigabit Internet services to consumer and business customers. Revenues are all generated in the U.S., have no fixed contract terms and are provided on a monthly basis, with unlimited bandwidth based on a fixed price. The Companys billing cycle for all Ting Internet customers is computed based on the customers activation date. Since consideration is collected before the service period, revenue is initially deferred and recognized as the Company performs its obligation to provide Internet access within each reporting period. In addition, revenues associated with the sale of Internet hardware to subscribers are recognized when title and risk of loss is transferred to the subscriber and shipment has occurred. Incentive marketing credits given to customers are recorded as a reduction of revenue. In those cases, where payment is not received at the time of sale, revenue is not recognized until contract inception unless the collection of the related accounts receivable is reasonably assured. The Company records costs that reflect expected refunds, rebates and credit card charge-backs as a reduction of revenues at the time of the sale based on historical experiences and current expectations. Platform Services Platform Services Tucows' Platform Services include the following full-service platforms from Wavelo, including ISOS and the MONOS as well as our legacy Platypus Billing software. Under each of these platforms there are a variety of solutions that support CSPs, including subscription and billing management, network orchestration and provisioning, and individual developer tools. Wavelo launches as a proven asset for CSPs, with DISH using Wavelos MONOS software to drive additional value within its Digital Operator Platform since early 2021. More recently, Ting Internet has also integrated Wavelos ISOS software to enable faster subscriber growth and footprint expansion. Wavelo's customers are billed monthly, on a postpaid basis. The monthly fees are variable, based on the volume of their subscribers utilizing the platform during a given month, to which minimums may apply. Customers may also be billed fixed platform fees and granted fixed credits as part of the consideration for long-term contracts. Consideration received is allocated to platform services and professional services and recognized as each service obligation is fulfilled. Any fixed fees for Platform Services are recognized into revenue evenly over the service period, while variable usage fees are recognized each month as they are consumed. Professional services revenue is recognized as the hours of professional services granted to the customer are used or expire. When consideration for these platform services is received before the service is delivered, the revenue is initially deferred and recognized only as the Company performs its obligation to provide services. Likewise, if platform services are delivered before the Company has the unconditional right to invoice the customer, revenue is recognized as a Contract Asset. Other Professional Services This revenue stream includes any other professional services earned in connection with Tucows' new Wavelo business from the provision of standalone technology services development work. These are billed to our customers monthly at set and established rates for services provided in period. The Company recognizes revenue over this new revenue stream as the Company satisfies its obligations to provide professional services. 28 Table of Contents Domain Services Wholesale - Domain Services Domain registration contracts, which can be purchased for terms of one to ten years, provide our resellers and retail registrant customers with the exclusive right to a personalized internet address from which to build an online presence. The Company enters into domain registration contracts in connection with each new, renewed and transferred-in domain registration. At the inception of the contract, the Company charges and collects the registration fee for the entire registration period. Though fees are collected upfront, revenue from domain registrations are recognized rateably over the registration period as domain registration contracts contain a right to access license of IP, which is a distinct performance obligation measured over time. The registration period begins once the Company has confirmed that the requested domain name has been appropriately recorded in the registry under contractual performance standards. Historically, our wholesale domain service has constituted the largest portion of our business and encompasses all of our services as an accredited registrar related to the registration, renewal, transfer and management of domain names. In addition, this service fuels other revenue categories as it often is the initial service for which a reseller will engage us, enabling us to follow on with other services and allowing us to add to our portfolio by purchasing names registered through us upon their expiration. Domain services will continue to be the largest portion of our business and will further fuel our ability to sell add-on services. The Company is an ICANN accredited registrar. Thus, the Company is the primary obligor with our reseller and retail registrant customers and is responsible for the fulfillment of our registrar services to those parties. As a result, the Company reports revenue in the amount of the fees we receive directly from our reseller and retail registrant customers. Our reseller customers maintain the primary obligor relationship with their retail customers, establish pricing and retain credit risk to those customers. Accordingly, the Company does not recognize any revenue related to transactions between our reseller customers and their ultimate retail customers. Wholesale Value-Added Services We derive revenue from domain related value-added services like digital certifications, WHOIS privacy and hosted email and by providing our resellers and retail registrant customers with tools and additional functionality to be used in conjunction with domain registrations. All domain related value-added services are considered distinct performance obligations which transfer the promised service to the customer over the contracted term. Fees charged to customers for domain related value-added services are collected at the inception of the contract, and revenue is recognized on a straight-line basis over the contracted term, consistent with the satisfaction of the performance obligations. We also derive revenue from other value-added services, which primarily consists of proceeds from the OpenSRS, eNom and Ascio domain expiry streams. Retail We derive revenues mainly from Hover and eNoms retail properties through the sale of retail domain name registration and email services to individuals and small businesses. The retail segment also includes the sale of the r ights to its portfolio of surname domains used in connection with our Realnames email service and Linux hosting services for websites through our Exact Hosting brand. Corporate - Mobile Services and Eliminations Although we still provide mobile telephony services to a small subset of customers retained through the Ting Mobile brand as part of the DISH Purchase Agreement executed in Fiscal 2020; this revenue stream no longer represents the Company's strategic focus going forward. Instead we have transitioned towards being a Platform Services provider for CSPs globally. Where these retail mobile services revenues were previously disclosed as part of a Mobile Services segment in the prior year, effective January 1, 2022 we have decided to exclude retail telephony services and transition services revenues from segment EBITDA results as they are no longer centrally managed and not monitored by or reported to our CEO by segment. Ting Mobile wireless usage contracts grant customers access to standard talk, text and data mobile services. Ting Mobile contracts are billed based on the customer's selected rate plan, which can either be usage based or an unlimited plan. All rate plan options are charged to customers on a postpaid, monthly basis at the end of their billing cycle. All future revenues associated with Retail Mobile Services stream will only be for this subset of customers retained by the Company, as mentioned above. Ting Mobile services are primarily contracted through the Ting website, for one month at a time and contain no commitment to renew the contract following each customer's monthly billing cycle. The Company's billing cycle for all Ting Mobile customers is computed based on the customer's activation date. In order to recognize revenue as the Company satisfies its obligations, we compute the amount of revenues earned but not billed from the end of each billing cycle to the end of each reporting period. In addition, revenues associated with the sale of wireless devices and accessories are recognized when title and risk of loss is transferred to the customer and shipment has occurred. Incentive marketing credits given to customers are recorded as a reduction of revenue. These Mobile Services revenue streams also includes transitional services provided to DISH. These are billed monthly at set and established rates for services provided in period and include the provision of sales, marketing, customer support, order fulfillment, and data analytics related to the legacy customer base sold to DISH. The Company recognizes revenue as the Company satisfies its obligations to provide professional services. The Company expects transitional services revenues to continue to decrease through the remainder of Fiscal 2022 and thereafter as services are established directly by DISH. As a form of consideration for the sale of the customer relationships, the Company receives a payout on the margin associated with the legacy customer base sold to DISH, over a period of 10 years. This has been classified as Other Income and not considered revenue in the current period. 29 Table of Contents The following table presents our net revenues, by revenue source ( Dollar amounts in thousands of U.S. dollars ): (Dollar amounts in thousands of U.S. dollars) For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Fiber Internet Services: Fiber Internet Services $ 9,788 $ 5,082 Platform Services: Platform Services 6,097 638 Other Professional Services 750 - Total Platform Services 6,847 638 Domain Services: Wholesale Domain Services 46,836 46,991 Value Added Services 5,649 5,080 Total Wholesale 52,485 52,071 Retail 9,061 9,154 Total Domain Services 61,546 61,225 Corporate: Mobile services and eliminations 2,918 3,930 $ 81,099 $ 70,875 Increase over prior period $ 10,224 Increase - percentage 14 % The following table presents our revenues, by revenue source, as a percentage of total revenues ( Dollar amounts in thousands of U.S. dollars ): (Dollar amounts in thousands of U.S. dollars) For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Fiber Internet Services: Fiber Internet Services 12 % 7 % Platform Services: Platform Services 8 % 1 % Other Professional Services 1 % 0 % Total Platform Services 9 % 1 % Domain Services: Wholesale Domain Services 57 % 66 % Value Added Services 7 % 7 % Total Wholesale 64 % 73 % Retail 11 % 13 % Total Domain Services 75 % 86 % Corporate: Mobile services and eliminations 4 % 6 % 100 % 100 % Total net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2022 increased by $10.2 million, or 14%, to $81.1 million from $70.9 million when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. The three-month increase in revenue was driven by Platform Services, as a result of increased MONOS platform revenues (both fixed and variable) fees earned from the migration of additional subscribers onto our new platform. Platform Services accounted for a $6.2 million increase to total revenues in the current period. This increase was furthered by Fiber Internet Services which had a revenue increase of $4.7 million in the current period from the attraction of additional customers to Ting Internet from the continued buildout of our Fiber network footprint across the United States. Additionally, Domain Services had a smaller revenue increase of $0.3 million, a result of increased expiry auction revenues and more broadly from the continued normalization of domain name registration growth and renewal rates from those observed as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic in prior years. The increases each of our segments experienced were partially offset by reduced revenues attributable to the Mobile Services provided to a small subset of customers retained as part of the DISH Purchase Agreement. 30 Table of Contents Deferred revenue at March 31, 2022 increased by $4.4 million to $152.2 million from $147.8 million at December 31, 2021. This increase was primarily driven by Domain Services, accounting for $4.2 million of the increase which is due to the increase in current period billings for domain name registrations and service renewals. Smaller increases followed from Platform Services and Fiber Internet Services at $0.1 million and $0.1 million, respectively. The deferred revenue associated with Platform Services is specifically related to increased Other Professional Services revenues for standalone technology services development work with DISH, which we defer until such time as that work is complete and we've satisfied our obligations to provide the professional services. The increase related to Fiber Internet Services is reflective of the continued growth in customer base and billings of that segment relative to December 31, 2021. No customer accounted for more than 10% of total revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2022 or the three months ended March 31, 2021. DISH accounted for 46% of total accounts receivable as at March 31, 2022 and 46% of total accounts receivable as at December 31, 2021. Though a significant portion of the Companys domain services revenues are prepaid by our customers, where the Company does collect receivables, significant management judgment is required at the time revenue is recorded to assess whether the collection of the resulting receivables is reasonably assured. On an ongoing basis, we assess the ability of our customers to make required payments. Based on this assessment, we expect the carrying amount of our outstanding receivables, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, to be fully collected. Fiber Internet Services Revenues from Ting Internet and billing solutions generated $9.8 million in revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2022, up $4.7 million or 92% compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. This growth is driven by subscriber growth across our Fiber network relative to the three months ended March 31, 2021, as well as the continued expansion of our Ting Internet footprint to new Ting towns throughout the United States. Included in this current period increase is $2.3 million of revenues attributed to the prior period acquisition of Simply Bits, which closed in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2021. As of March 31, 2022, Ting Internet had access to 81,000 owned infrastructure serviceable addresses, 17,000 partner infrastructure serviceable addresses and 28,000 active subscribers under its management; compared to having access to 59,000 owned infrastructure serviceable addresses, 12,000 partner infrastructure serviceable addresses and 17,000 active subscribers under its management as of March 31, 2021. These figures include the increase in serviceable addresses and subscribers attributable to the acquisition of Cedar in January 2020, but exclude those of Simply Bits. Platform Services Platform Services Net revenues from Platform Services f or the three months ended March 31, 2022 increased by $5.5 million to $6.1 million as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. This is driven from increased MONOS platform revenues (both fixed and variable) fees earned from the migration of additional DISH subscribers, from their Boost Mobile brand onto our new platform. Our full-service platforms support CSPs with subscription and billing management, network orchestration and provisioning, and individual developer tools. Wavelo launched as a proven asset for CSPs, with DISH using Wavelos MONOS software to drive additional value within its Digital Operator Platform since early 2021. More recently, Ting Internet has also integrated Wavelos ISOS software to enable faster subscriber growth and footprint expansion. Any intercompany ISOS revenues earned from Ting Internet are eliminated upon consolidation. Other Professional Services Net revenues from Other Professional Services f or the three months ended March 31, 2022 increased to $0.8 million. This increase was the result of completion of select standalone technology services development work in the current period, where three months ended March 31, 2021 did not have any revenues from comparable services. 31 Table of Contents Domain Services Wholesale - Domain Services During the three months ended March 31, 2022, Wholesale domain services revenue decreased by $0.2 million to $46.8 million, when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. Decreases from Wholesale domain registrations were driven from the continued normalization of domain name registration growth and renewal rates from those observed as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic in prior years. Total domains that were managed under the OpenSRS, eNom, EPAG, and Ascio domain services decreased by 0.8 million domain names to 25.0 million as of March 31, 2022, when compared to 25.8 million at March 31, 2021. The decrease in domains under management came largely from eNom and the European brands, Ascio and EPAG. Wholesale - Value Added Services During the three months ended March 31, 2022, value-added services revenue increased by $0.5 million to $5.6 million compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase was primarily driven by increased expiry revenue of $0.7 million from the OpenSRS, eNom, Ascio brands and their respective domain expiry streams, and was partially offset by other small decreases in Digital Certificates, Email and Other revenues of $0.2 million. Retail During the three months ended March 31, 2022, retail domain services revenue decreased by $0.1 million or 1% to $9.1 million compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. This was driven by decreased revenues related to retail domain name registrations of $0.4 million and partially offset by a one-time outsized domain name portfolio sales of $0.2 million and a small increase in Exact Hosting revenues of less than $0.1 million. Corporate - Mobile Services and Eliminations Net revenues from Retail Mobile Services for the three months ended March 31, 2022 decreased by $1.0 million or 26% to $2.9 million as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021 . This decrease was driven by decreased transitional services of $1.2 million, notably from a decreased level of customer support services provided to DISH in connection with the legacy Ting Mobile customer base. The Company expects transitional services revenues to continue to decrease through the remainder of Fiscal 2022 and thereafter as services are established directly by DISH. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in revenues of $0.4 million associated with the mobile telephony services and device revenues associated with the small group of customers retained by the Company as part of the DISH Purchase Agreement. Revenues increased as a result of the organic growth we experienced through Fiscal 2021, brought about by new unlimited usage rate plans introduced in late Fiscal 2020. Additionally, corporate eliminations increased as a result of the revenues associated with ISOS platform billing between Wavelo and Ting Internet, which began in Fiscal 2022. COST OF REVENUES Fiber Internet Services Cost of revenues primarily includes the costs for provisioning high speed Internet access, which is comprised of network access fees paid to third-parties to use their network, leased circuit costs to directly support enterprise customers, the personnel and related expenses (net of capitalization) related to the physical planning, design, construction and build out of the physical Fiber network and as well as personnel and related expenses (net of capitalization) related to the installation, repair, maintenance and overall field service delivery of the Fiber business. Hardware costs include the cost of equipment sold to end customers, including routers, ONTs, and IPTV products, and any inventory adjustments on this inventory. Other costs include field vehicle expenses, and small sundry equipment and supplies consumed in building the Fiber network. 32 Table of Contents Platform Services Platform Services Cost of revenues, if any, to provide the MONOS, ISOS and Platypus Billing software services including network access, provisioning and billing services for CSPs. This includes the amortization of any capitalized contract fulfillment costs over the period consistent with the pattern of transferring network access, provisioning and billing services to which the cost relates. Additionally, this includes any fees paid to third-party service providers primarily for printing services in connection with the Platypus Billing system. Other Professional Services Cost of revenues to provide standalone technology services development work to our CSP customers to help support their businesses. This includes any personnel and contractor fees for any client service resources retained by the Company. Only a subset of the Company's employee base provides professional services to our customers. This cost reflects that group of resources. Domain Services Wholesale - Domain Services Cost of revenues for domain registrations represents the amortization of registry and accreditation fees on a basis consistent with the recognition of revenues from our customers, namely rateably over the term of provision of the service. Registry fees, the primary component of cost of revenues, are paid in full when the domain is registered, and are initially recorded as prepaid domain registry fees. This accounting treatment reasonably approximates a recognition pattern that corresponds with the provision of the services during the period. Market development funds that do not represent a payment for distinct goods or services provided by the Company, and thus do not meet the criteria for revenue recognition under ASU 2014-09, are reflected as cost of goods sold and are recognized as earned. Wholesale - Value-Added Services Costs of revenues for value-added services include licensing and royalty costs related to the provisioning of certain components of related to hosted email and fees paid to third-party hosting services. Fees payable for trust certificates are amortized on a basis consistent with the provision of service, generally one year, while email hosting fees and monthly printing fees are included in cost of revenues in the month they are incurred. Retail Costs of revenues for our provision and management of Internet services through our retail sites, Hover.com and the eNom branded sites, include the amortization of registry fees on a basis consistent with the recognition of revenues from our customers, namely rateably over the term of provision of the service. Registry fees, the primary component of cost of revenues, are paid in full when the domain is registered, and are recorded as prepaid domain registry fees and are expensed rateably over the renewal term. Costs of revenues for our surname portfolio represent the amortization of registry fees for domains added to our portfolio over the renewal period, which is generally one year, the value attributed under intangible assets to any domain name sold and any impairment charges that may arise from our assessment of our domain name intangible assets. Corporate - Mobile Services and Eliminations Cost of revenues for Retail Mobile Services includes the costs of provisioning mobile services, which is primarily our customers' voice, messaging, data usage provided by our MNO partner, and the costs of providing mobile phone hardware, which is the cost of mobile phone devices and SIM cards sold to our customers, order fulfillment related expenses, and inventory write-downs. Included in the costs of provisioning mobile services is any penalties associated with the minimum commitments with our MNO partner. Network expenses Network expenses include personnel and related expenses related to the network operations, IT infrastructure and supply chain teams that support our various business segments. It also includes network depreciation and amortization, communication and productivity tool costs, and equipment maintenance costs. Communication and productivity tool costs includes collaboration, customer support, bandwidth, co-location and provisioning costs we incur to support the supply of all our services. 33 Table of Contents The following table presents our cost of revenues, by revenue source: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Fiber Internet Services: Fiber Internet Services $ 4,038 $ 2,609 Platform Services: Platform Services 185 85 Other Professional Services 776 - Total Platform Services 961 85 Domain Services: Wholesale Domain Services 36,397 35,773 Value Added Services 656 599 Total Wholesale 37,053 36,372 Retail 4,759 4,401 Total Domain Services 41,812 40,773 Corporate: Mobile services and eliminations 2,610 2,720 Network Expenses: Network, other costs 4,180 3,238 Network, depreciation of property and equipment 5,895 3,638 Network, amortization of intangible assets 378 299 Network, impairment of property and equipment 27 60 Total Network Expenses 10,480 7,235 $ 59,901 $ 53,422 The following table presents our cost of revenues, as a percentage of total cost of revenues for the periods presented: For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Fiber Internet Services: Fiber Internet Services 7 % 5 % Platform Services: Platform Services 0 % 0 % Other Professional Services 1 % 0 % Total Platform Services 1 % 0 % Domain Services: Wholesale Domain Services 61 % 68 % Value Added Services 1 % 1 % Total Wholesale 62 % 69 % Retail 8 % 8 % Total Domain Services 70 % 77 % Corporate: Mobile services and eliminations 4 % 5 % Network Expenses: Network, other costs 7 % 6 % Network, depreciation of property and equipment 10 % 7 % Network, amortization of intangible assets 1 % 0 % Network, impairment of property and equipment 0 % 0 % 18 % 13 % 100 % 100 % 34 Table of Contents Total cost of revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2022, increased by $6.5 million, or 12%, to $59.9 million from $53.4 million in the three months ended March 31, 2021. The three-month increase in cost of revenues was driven by a $3.2 million increase in Network Expenses. The increase from Network Expenses is a result of the expansion of the Companys increased network infrastructure associated with the continuing expansion of the Ting Internet network footprint and an increase in communication and productivity tool costs across our operating segments. Another contributing factor was a $1.4 million increase from the Fiber Internet Services segment. As discussed above in the Net Revenues section, our Fiber Internet Services segment has continued to add both serviceable addresses and active subscriptions relative to the three months ended March 31, 2021. Additionally, we experienced a $1.0 million increase from Domain Services, a $0.9 million increase from Platform Services, partially offset by $0.1 million decrease related to Mobile Services and eliminations. The increase in Domain Services was a result of prior period including significant registry rebates earned from t he strong performance and additions to domains under management as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic during Fiscal 2020. The increase in Platform Services costs were driven by the completion of select standalone technology services development work for DISH in the current period. Deferred costs of fulfillment as of March 31, 2022 increased by $2.0 million, or 2%, to $114.7 million from $112.7 million at December 31, 202 1. This increase was primarily driven by Domain Services, accounting for $3.0 million of the increase which is due to the increase in current period deferred costs for domain name registrations and service renewals. This was partially offset by a decrease from Platform Services of $1.1 million. The deferred costs of fulfillment associated with Platform Services is specifically related to the completion of Other Professional Services discussed above for standalone technology services development work with DISH. As these professional services were completed, the deferred costs to fulfill those services were amortized into costs of revenues. Fiber Internet Services During the three months ended March 31, 2022, costs related to provisioning high speed Internet access and billing solutions increased $1.4 million or 54%, to $4.0 million as compared to $2.6 million during three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase in costs were primarily driven by increased direct costs, bandwidth and colocation costs related to the continued expansion of the Ting Fiber network. Although directionally aligned with the experienced growth in revenue over the same period, the outpaced increase in cost of revenues for Fiber Internet services is a result of the necessary upfront investment and expenditure needed to build out the network in advance of anticipated revenue growth in any particular location. Platform Services Platform Services Cost of revenues from Platform Services f or the three months ended March 31, 2022 increased to $0.2 million as compared to $0.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. Costs incurred are driven by the amortization of previously capitalized costs incurred to fulfill the DISH Master Services Agreement ("MSA") over the term of the agreement. The continued incurrence of additional costs to fulfill the contract have resulted in increased amortization in the current period relative to the fixed term of the agreement. Other Professional Services Cost of revenues from Other Professional Services f or the three months ended March 31, 2022 decreased to $0.8 million as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. Costs incurred represent the personnel and related expenses of employees and contractors providing professional services to DISH. The increase in Platform Services costs relative to the prior period was a result of the completion of select standalone technology services development work for DISH in the current period. No comparable costs were incurred in the prior period. Domain Services Wholesale - Domain Services Costs for Wholesale domain services for the three months ended March 31, 2022 increased by $0.6 million to $36.4 million, when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase in Domain Services cost of revenues was a result of the prior period including significant registry rebates earned from t he strong performance and additions to domains under management as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic during Fiscal 2020. The current period saw continued normalization of domain name registration and renewal rates from the rates experienced at the beginning of the pandemic. As a result, no comparable material rebates were earned from registries in the current period. Wholesale - Value-Added Services Costs for wholesale value-added services for the three months ended March 31, 2022 increased by less than $0.1 million to $0.7 million, when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. This was driven by increases in Digital Certificates and expiry stream costs of less than $0.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2021, offset by a small decrease in email services costs. Retail Costs for retail domain services for the three months ended March 31, 2022 increased by $0.4 million to $4.8 million, when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. This was driven by increased costs related to retail domain name registrations. 35 Table of Contents Corporate - Mobile Services and Eliminations Cost of revenues from Retail Mobile Services for the three months ended March 31, 2022 decreased by $0.1 million or 4%, to $2.6 million from $2.7 million in the three months ended March 31, 2021. Consistent with the above discussion around net revenues, this was a dri ven by decreased transitional services costs of $1.1 million, notably from a decreased level of customer support services provided to DISH in connection with the legacy Ting Mobile customer base. The Company expects transitional services costs of revenues to continue to decrease through the remainder of Fiscal 2022 and thereafter as services are established directly by DISH. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in costs of revenues of $1.0 million associated with the mobile telephony services and device costs associated with the small group of customers retained by the Company as part of the DISH Purchase Agreement. Costs of revenues increased as a result of the organic growth of the customer base we experienced through Fiscal 2021, brought about by new unlimited usage rate plans introduced in late Fiscal 2020. Additionally, d uring the three months ended March 31, 2022, the Company accrued for $0.3 million of penalties in connection with failing to meet the minimum commitments with the MNO partner, and expects to continue to incur penalties through Fiscal 2022 and thereafter until the contract is complete. Network Expenses Network costs for the three months ended March 31, 2022 increased by $3.3 million to $10.5 million when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. The three-month increase was driven by increased depreciation and amortization of $2.3 million as a result of the Company's increased network infrastructure associated with the continuing expansion of the Ting Fiber footprint, followed by increased network costs of $0.9 million from Fiber Internet Services and Platform Services segments, as well as a small decrease in impairment of property plant and equipment of less than $0.1 million. SALES AND MARKETING Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs. These costs include commissions and related expenses of our sales, product management, public relations, call center, support and marketing personnel. Other sales and marketing expenses include customer acquisition costs, advertising and other promotional costs. (Dollar amounts in thousands of U.S. dollars) For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Sales and marketing $ 11,987 $ 8,311 Increase over prior period $ 3,676 Increase - percentage 44 % Percentage of net revenues 15 % 12 % Sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2022 increased by $3.7 million, or 44%, to $12.0 million as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. This three-month increase primarily related to increased marketing related costs to drive active subscription growth given the increase in serviceable addresses available to our Fiber Internet Services segment. In addition to the increased spending on marketing related costs, both personnel and facility costs for our Ting Internet teams increased to support the expansion of our Ting Fiber internet footprint and workforce in select Ting towns across the United States. Another contributor to the increase in the current period was the investment in hiring additional personnel for Wavelo's product, customer success and support teams to support the launch of that business and it's go to market strategy. TECHNICAL OPERATIONS AND DEVELOPMENT Technical operations and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs and related expenses required to support the development of new or enhanced service offerings and the maintenance and upgrading of existing infrastructure. This includes expenses incurred in the research, design and development of technology that we use to register domain names, Platform Services, Fiber Internet Services, email, retail, domain portfolio and other Internet services, as well as to distribute our digital content services. All technical operations and development costs are expensed as incurred. (Dollar amounts in thousands of U.S. dollars) For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Technical operations and development $ 3,765 $ 3,132 Increase over prior period $ 633 Increase - percentage 20 % Percentage of net revenues 5 % 4 % Technical operations and development expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2022 increased by $0.6 million, or 20%, to $3.8 million when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase in costs relates primarily to increased spending on both personnel costs and external contractors to provide development resources to assist our internal shared services and engineering teams with development aspects of the MONOS and ISOS platforms. GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE General and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and related costs for managerial and administrative personnel, fees for professional services, public listing expenses, rent, foreign exchange and other general corporate expenses. (Dollar amounts in thousands of U.S. dollars) For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 General and administrative $ 7,296 $ 4,953 Increase over prior period $ 2,343 Increase - percentage 47 % Percentage of net revenues 9 % 7 % General and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2022 increased by $2.3 million, or 47% to $7.3 million as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase was primarily driven by an increase in personnel costs driven by the growth of teams acquired as part of the Simply Bits acquisition. Another driver of the increase was the higher stock-based compensation expenses in order to attract, retain and scale core administrative teams to meet projected Company growth. Smaller contributors to the increase include professional fees and other miscellaneous expenses such as business taxes. 36 Table of Contents DEPRECIATION OF PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT (Dollar amounts in thousands of U.S. dollars) For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Depreciation of property and equipment $ 148 $ 121 Increase over prior period $ 27 Increase - percentage 22 % Percentage of net revenues 0 % 0 % Depreciation costs remained flat for the three months ended March 31, 2022 at $0.1 million when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. AMORTIZATION OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS (Dollar amounts in thousands of U.S. dollars) For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Amortization of intangible assets $ 2,465 $ 2,320 Increase over prior period $ 145 Increase - percentage 6 % Percentage of net revenues 3 % 3 % Amortization of intangible assets for the three months ended March 31, 2022 increased by $0.1 million to $2.5 million as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. This increase was a result of the acquisition of Uniregistry assets in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2021. LOSS (GAIN) ON CURRENCY FORWARD CONTRACTS Although our functional currency is the U.S. dollar, a major portion of our fixed expenses are incurred in Canadian dollars. Our goal with regard to foreign currency exposure is, to the extent possible, to achieve operational cost certainty, manage financial exposure to certain foreign exchange fluctuations and to neutralize some of the impact of foreign currency exchange movements. Accordingly, we enter into foreign exchange contracts to mitigate the exchange rate risk on portions of our Canadian dollar exposure. (Dollar amounts in thousands of U.S. dollars) For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Loss (gain) on currency forward contracts $ - $ (253 ) Increase over prior period $ 253 Increase - percentage 100 % Percentage of net revenues 0 % 0 % The Company recorded a net gain of nil on the change in fair value of outstanding contracts as well as realized on matured contracts during the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to a net gain of $0.3 million during the three months ended March 31, 2021. At March 31, 2022, our balance sheet reflects a derivative instrument asset of $1.8 million and a liability of nil as a result of our existing foreign exchange contracts. Until their respective maturity dates, these contracts will fluctuate in value in line with movements in the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar. OTHER INCOME (EXPENSES) (Dollar amounts in thousands of U.S. dollars) For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Other income (expense), net $ 2,906 $ 4,363 Increase over prior period $ (1,457 ) Increase - percentage (33 )% Percentage of net revenues 4 % 6 % Other Income during the three months ended March 31, 2022 decreased by $1.5 million when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. This was partly due to higher interest incurred on our Second Amended 2019 Credit Facility (as defined below) with the majority of the borrowings used to support the current build-out of the Ting Internet fiber network, and previous loan balance obtained to fund the acquisition of eNom, Ascio, Cedar and Simply Bits. In addition to higher interest, the Company experienced a $0.6 million decrease in the gain on sale of Ting Customer Assets to DISH in the current period. As described above, the Company receives a payout on the margin associated with the legacy customer base sold to DISH over the 10-year term of the agreement, as form of consideration for the sale of the legacy customer relationships. The Company expects the gain on the sale of Ting Customer Assets to continue to decrease over the term of the payout as legacy customers naturally churn away from Ting Mobile. 37 Table of Contents INCOME TAXES (Dollar amounts in thousands of U.S. dollars) For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Provision for income taxes $ 1,078 $ 1,083 Decrease in provision over prior period $ (5 ) Decrease - percentage (0 )% Effective tax rate (56 )% 34 % Income tax expense remain consistent for the three months ended March 31, 2022 at $1.1 million when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. The change in effective tax rate is primarily due to a change in the geographical mix of income as we continue our expansion to Ting Internet in the U.S. and current tax on foreign earnings. ADJUSTED EBITDA We believe that the provision of this supplemental non-GAAP measure allows investors to evaluate the operational and financial performance of our core business using similar evaluation measures to those used by management. We use adjusted EBITDA to measure our performance and prepare our budgets. Since adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial performance measure, our calculation of adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to other similarly titled measures of other companies; and should not be considered in isolation, as a substitute for, or superior to measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. Because adjusted EBITDA is calculated before recurring cash charges, including interest expense and taxes, and is not adjusted for capital expenditures or other recurring cash requirements of the business, it should not be considered as a liquidity measure. See the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows included in the attached financial statements. Non-GAAP financial measures do not reflect a comprehensive system of accounting and may differ from non-GAAP financial measures with the same or similar captions that are used by other companies and/or analysts and may differ from period to period. We endeavor to compensate for these limitations by providing the relevant disclosure of the items excluded in the calculation of adjusted EBITDA to net income based on GAAP, which should be considered when evaluating the Company's results. Tucows strongly encourages investors to review its financial information in its entirety and not to rely on a single financial measure. Our adjusted EBITDA definition excludes depreciation, amortization of intangible assets, income tax provision, interest expense (net), accretion of contingent consideration, stock-based compensation, asset impairment, gains and losses from unrealized foreign currency transactions and costs that are one-time in nature and not indicative of on-going performance (profitability), including acquisition and transition costs. Gains and losses from unrealized foreign currency transactions removes the unrealized effect of the change in the mark-to-market values on outstanding foreign currency contracts not designated in accounting hedges, as well as the unrealized effect from the translation of monetary accounts denominated in non-U.S. dollars to U.S. dollars. The following table reconciles adjusted EBITDA to net income: Reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to Income before Provision for Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 31, (In Thousands of US Dollars) 2022 2021 (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) Adjusted EBITDA $ 11,311 $ 12,724 Depreciation of property and equipment 6,043 3,759 Impairment and loss on disposition of property and equipment 412 60 Amortization of intangible assets 2,843 2,619 Interest expense, net 1,796 936 Accretion of contingent consideration 98 96 Stock-based compensation 1,391 1,022 Unrealized loss (gain) on change in fair value of forward contracts - 166 Unrealized loss (gain) on foreign exchange revaluation of foreign denominated monetary assets and liabilities 53 67 Acquisition and other costs 1 617 767 Income before provision for income taxes $ (1,942 ) $ 3,232 1 Acquisition and other costs represent transaction-related expenses, transitional expenses, such as redundant post-acquisition expenses, primarily related to our acquisitions, including Simply Bits in November 2021. Expenses include severance or transitional costs associated with department, operational or overall company restructuring efforts, including geographic alignments Adjusted EBITDA decreased by $1.4 million to $11.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021 . The decrease in adjusted EBITDA from period-to-period was primarily driven by decreased contribution from Domain Services as we experience the continued normalization of domain registrations and renewal rates relative to growth experienced over the last fiscal years from the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, adjusted EBITDA decreased due to the increased investment in our Fiber Internet segment for the ramp of expenditures related to the Fiber network build and expansion plan. These decreases were partially offset by increased contribution from Platform Services due to increased revenue growth in MONOS platform fees as additional DISH customers migrate to the platform. 38 Table of Contents OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) To mitigate the impact of the change in fair value of our foreign exchange contracts on our financial results, in October 2012 we begun applying hedge accounting for the majority of the contracts we need to meet our Canadian dollar requirements on a prospective basis. The following table presents other comprehensive income for the periods presented: (Dollar amounts in thousands of U.S. dollars) For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Other comprehensive income (loss) $ 1,034 $ (466 ) Increase over prior period $ 1,500 Increase - percentage (322 )% Percentage of net revenues 1 % (1 )% The impact of the fair value adjustments on outstanding hedged contracts for the three months ended March 31, 2022 wa s a gain in O CI before reclassifications of $1.0 million as compared to a gain in OCI of $0.4 million before reclassifications for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The net amount reclassified to earnings during the three months ended March 31, 2022 was a gain of less than $0.1 million compared to a loss of $0.8 million during the three months ended March 31, 2021. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES As of March 31, 2022, our cash and cash equivalents balance decreased by $2.9 million when compared to December 31, 2021. Our principal uses of cash were $23.0 million for the continued investment in property and equipment driven by Ting Internet expansion, $2.0 million related to the contingent consideration related to the acquisition of Cedar, $0.2 million related to the payment of loan payable costs, and $0.1 million related to the acquisition of intangible assets. These uses of cash were partially offset by $16.5 million proceeds received from the drawdown of the Second Amended 2019 Credit Facility, $5.4 million from cash provided from operating activities and $0.5 million from the proceeds received on the exercise of stock options. Amended 2019 Credit Facility On June 14, 2019, the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Tucows.com Co., Ting Fiber, Inc., Ting Inc., Tucows (Delaware) Inc. and Tucows (Emerald), LLC, entered into an Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Agreement with RBC, as administrative agent, and lenders party thereto (collectively with RBC, the Lenders) under which the Company has access to an aggregate of up to $240 million in funds, which consists of $180 million guaranteed credit facility and a $60 million accordion facility. On November 27, 2019, the Company entered into Amending Agreement No. 1 to the Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Agreement (collectively with the Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Agreement, the Amended 2019 Credit Facility) to amend certain defined terms in connection with the Cedar acquisition. The Amended 2019 Credit Facility replaced a secured Credit Agreement dated January 20, 2017 with Bank of Montreal, RBC and Bank of Nova Scotia. The obligations of the Company under the Amended 2019 Credit Agreement are secured by a first priority lien on substantially all of the personal property and assets of the Company and has a four-year term, maturing on June 13, 2023. Second Amended 2019 Credit Facility On October 26, 2021, the Company entered into a Second Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Agreement (the Second Amended 2019 Credit Agreement) with the Lenders and Toronto-Dominion Bank (collectively the New Lenders) to, among other things, increase the existing revolving credit facility from $180 million to $240 million. The Second Amended Credit Agreement provides the Company with access to an aggregate of $240 million in committed funds. Under the Second Amended Credit Agreement, the Company has agreed to comply with the following financial covenants at all times, which are to be calculated on a rolling four quarter basis: (i) maximum Total Funded Debt to Adjusted EBITDA Ratio of 4.50:1.00 until March 31, 2023 and 4.00:1.00 thereafter and (ii) minimum Interest Coverage Ratio of 3.00:1.00. The Second Amended Credit Agreement also provides for two additional interest rate tiers if the Company exceeds a 3.50x Total Funded Debt to Adjusted EBITDA Ratio. Cash Flow from Operating Activities Net cash inflows from operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2022 totaled $5.4 million, a decrease of 62% when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. Net income, after adjusting for non-cash charges, during the three months ended March 31, 2022 was $6.6 million, a decrease of 31% when compared to the prior year. Net income included non-cash charges and recoveries of $9.6 million such as depreciation, amortization, stock-based compensation, loss (gain) on change in fair value of currency forward contracts, net right of use operating asset or liability, accretion of contingent consideration, amortization of debt discount and issuance costs, impairment of property and equipment, loss on disposal of domain names, net amortization of contract costs, excess tax benefits on stock-based compensation, and deferred income taxes (recovery). In addition, changes in our working capital used net cash of $1.2 million. Utilized cash of $9.4 million from the changes in contract assets, prepaid expenses and deposits, deferred costs of fulfillment, accounts receivable, customer deposits, inventory, and accreditation fees payable were offset by positive contributions of $8.2 million from movements in deferred revenue, accounts payable and accrued liabilities, as well as income taxes recoverable. 39 Table of Contents Cash Flow from Financing Activities Net cash inflows from financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2022 totaled $14.8 million, an increase of 100% when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. Total cash inflows were driven by $16.5 million of proceeds received from drawdown of the Credit Facility, as well as $0.5 million from proceeds received on exercise of stock options. These cash inflows were partially offset by $2.0 million related to the contingent consideration related to the acquisition of Cedar as well as $0.2 million related to the payment of loan payable costs. Cash Flow from Investing Activities Investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2022 used net cash of $23.1 million, an increase of 64% when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. Cash outflows of $23.0 million related to the investment in property and equipment, primarily to support the continued expansion of our Ting Internet Fiber network footprints in California, Colorado, Idaho, North Carolina and Virginia as we seek to extend both our current network and expand to new markets. We expect our capital expenditures on building and expanding our fiber network to continue to increase during Fiscal 2022. In addition to investment in property and equipment, the current period used $0.1 million for the acquisition of other intangible assets. Material Cash Requirements In response to the significant operating and financial restrictions placed upon us under the Second Amended 2019 Credit Agreement, and in order to continue the Companys planned expansion of the Ting Internet footprint, the Company has been actively exploring additional financing alternatives. The Company may be required to obtain additional financing, which may include an equity or debt issuance, a partnership or collaboration arrangement with a third party or an amendment, replacement or refinancing of its credit facility. We may not be able to secure additional financing on favorable terms, or at all, at the time when we need that funding. Failure to secure additional funding and expand our Ting Internet Fiber network footprint would have a material adverse effect on the Company's prospects and results of operations in the future. We currently have no commitments or agreements regarding the acquisition of other businesses. Any additional financing may be dilutive to existing investors. In our 2021 Annual Report, we disclosed our material cash requirements. As of March 31, 2022, other than the items mentioned above, there have been no other material changes to our material cash requirements outside the ordinary course of business.