ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains, in addition to historical information, forward-looking statements by us with regard to our expectations as to financial results and other aspects of our business that involve risks and uncertainties and may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as may, should, anticipate, believe, plan, estimate, expect, and intend, and other similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained in this report include statements regarding, among other things, the competition we expect to encounter as our business develops and competes in a broader range of Internet services, the Company's foreign currency requirements, specifically for the Canadian dollar and Euro; Wavelo, and Ting subscriber growth and retention rates; the number of new, renewed and transferred-in domain names we register as our business develops and competes; the effect of a potential generic top level domain (gTLD) expansion by the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) on the number of domains we register and the impact it may have on related revenues; our belief regarding the underlying platform for our domain services; our expectation regarding the trend of sales of domain names; our belief that, by increasing the number of services we offer, we will be able to generate higher revenues; our expectation regarding litigation; the potential impact of current and pending claims on our business; our valuations of certain deferred tax assets; our expectation to collect our outstanding receivables, net of our allowance for doubtful accounts; our expectation regarding fluctuations in certain expense and cost categories; our expectations to obtain additional financing to further accelerate the Ting Internet footprint while sustaining liquidity; our expectations regarding our unrecognized tax; our expectations regarding cash from operations to fund our business; the timing, implementation and impact of the capital efficiency plan; the impact of cancellations of or amendments to market development fund programs under which we receive funds; our expectation regarding our ability to manage realized gains/losses from foreign currency contracts; our partnership with an affiliate of Generate; and general business conditions and economic uncertainty. These statements are based on managements current expectations and are subject to a number of uncertainties and risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Many factors affect our ability to achieve our objectives and to successfully develop and commercialize our services including: Our ability to continue to generate sufficient working capital to meet our operating requirements; Our ability to service our debt commitments and preferred unit commitments; Our ability to maintain a good working relationship with our vendors and customers; The ability of vendors to continue to supply our needs; Actions by our competitors; Our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in our business and address operational efficiencies, such as the February 2024 Workforce Reduction and 2024 Capital Efficiency Plan Our ability to effectively manage our business; The effects of any material impairment of our goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets; Our ability to obtain and maintain approvals from regulatory authorities on regulatory issues; Our ability to invest in the build-out of fiber networks into selected towns and cities to provide Internet access services to residential and commercial customers while maintaining the development and sales of our established services; Adverse tax consequences such as those related to changes in tax laws or tax rates or their interpretations, including with respect to the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development ("OECD") model global minimum tax rules; Our ability to effectively respond or comply with new data protection regulations and any conflicts that may arise between such regulations and our ICANN contractual requirements The application of business judgment in determining our global provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets or liabilities or other tax liabilities given that the ultimate tax determination is uncertain; Our ability to effectively integrate acquisitions; Our ability to monitor, assess and respond to changing geopolitical and economic environments including rising inflation and interest rates, tariffs and trade disputes, and geopolitical conflict Our ability to collect anticipated payments from EchoStar in connection with the 10-year payment stream that is a function of the margin generated by the transferred subscribers over a 10-year period pursuant to the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement dated August 1, 2020 between the Company and DISH Wireless LLC ("EchoStar", DISH's post-merger parent) (the EchoStar Purchase Agreement); Our ability to meet the operational and financial drawdown milestones under the Unit Purchase Agreement with Generate, which provides the Company with the ability to obtain additional financing to invest in the expansion of fiber networks; Our ability to maintain compliance with the operational and financial covenants of the 2023 Notes as defined in "Note 7 - Notes Payable" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, of this Quarterly Report, which provides the Company with financing to invest in the expansion of fiber networks; 30 Table of Contents Our ability to obtain further financing, if needed, to fund continued investment in the expansion of our fiber networks; Our ability to maintain the safety and security of our systems and data; Pending or new litigation; and Factors set forth under the caption Item 1A Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024 filed with the SEC on March 13, 2025 (the 2024 Annual Report) and in "Item 1A Risk Factors" in Part II of this Quarterly Report. This list of factors that may affect our future performance and financial and competitive position and the accuracy of forward-looking statements is illustrative, but it is by no means exhaustive. Accordingly, all forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based on information available to us as of the date of this document, and we assume no obligation to update these cautionary statements or any forward-looking statements, except as required by law. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. We qualify all the forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q by the foregoing cautionary statements. OVERVIEW Our mission is to provide simple useful services that help people unlock the power of the Internet. We accomplish this by reducing the complexity of our customers experience as they access the Internet (at home or on the go) and while using Internet services such as domain name registration, email and other Internet related services. We are organized into three operating and reporting segments - Ting, Wavelo, and Tucows Domains. Each segment is differentiated primarily by their services, the markets they serve and the regulatory environments in which they operate. The Ting segment contains the operating results of our retail high speed Internet access operations, including its wholly owned subsidiaries - Cedar and Simply Bits. The Wavelo segment includes our platform and professional services offerings, as well as the billing solutions to Internet services providers ("ISPs"). Tucows Domains includes wholesale and retail domain name registration services, as well as value added services derived through our OpenSRS, eNom, Ascio, EPAG and Hover brands. Our Chief Executive Officer ("CEO"), who is also our chief operating decision maker, regularly reviews the operating results of Ting, Wavelo and Tucows Domains as three distinct segments in order to make key operating decisions as well as evaluate segment performance. Certain revenues and expenses disclosed under the Corporate category are excluded from segment adjusted earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization ("Segment Adjusted EBITDA") results as they are centrally managed and not monitored by or reported to our CEO by segment, including mobile retail services, eliminations of intercompany transactions, portions of Finance and Human Resources that are centrally managed, Legal and Corporate Information Technology ("IT") shared services. For the three months ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024, we reported net revenue of $94.6 million and $87.5 million, respectively. Ting Ting and its wholly owned subsidiaries - Cedar and Simply Bits includes the provision of fixed high-speed Internet access services to select towns throughout the United States, with further expansion underway to both new and existing markets. Our primary sales channel is through the Ting website. The primary focus of this segment is to provide reliable Gigabit Internet services to consumer and business customers. Revenues are all generated in the U.S. and are provided on a monthly basis and have no fixed contract terms. As of March 31, 2025, Ting Internet had access to 133,000 owned infrastructure serviceable addresses, 54,000 partner infrastructure serviceable addresses and 52,000 active subscribers under its management; compared to having access to 124,000 owned infrastructure serviceable addresses, 33,000 partner infrastructure serviceable addresses and 46,000 active subscribers under its management as of March 31, 2024. These figures exclude any changes in serviceable addresses and accounts attributable to Simply Bits. On February 7, 2024 Ting committed to the February 2024 Workforce Reduction, which aimed to realign the Company's operational structure within the Ting operating segment and reduce Ting's workforce by 13%, or 7% of the Companys total workforce, to better support strategic objectives. The February 2024 Workforce Reduction was designed to streamline operations and reduce operating expenses within the Ting operating segment. Substantially all of the employees impacted by the workforce reduction were notified on February 7, 2024 and have since exited the Company. The Company incurred non-recurring charges of approximately $3.2 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2024 in connection with the workforce reduction, primarily consisting of severance payments, notice pay, employee benefits contributions and outplacement costs. On October 30, 2024, Ting undertook the 2024 Capital Efficiency Plan to reflect the ongoing operational and financial prioritization of the Ting business and to lower the Company's year-over-year operating expenses, which impacted approximately 42% of Ting's workforce or 17% of the Company's total workforce. The Company incurred non-recurring charges of approximately $7.7 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024 in connection with the 2024 Capital Efficiency Plan, primarily consisting of severance payments, notice pay, employee benefits contributions and outplacement costs. The February 2024 Workforce Reduction and 2024 Capital Efficiency Plan realized personnel and related expense (net of capitalization) savings with the majority of the savings in sales and marketing, including related network support functions, followed by smaller impacts in technical operations and development, direct cost of revenues, network, general and administrative, and other costs. In the prior fiscal year ended December 31, 2024 ("Fiscal 2024") the realized savings were partially offset by costs associated with both plans. These costs referenced above were classified as transitional and were excluded in our Adjusted EBITDA, which is a non-GAAP financial measure. Please see discussion of Adjusted EBITDA as well as the Adjusted EBITDA reconciliation to net income in the Results of Operations section below. The 2024 Capital Efficiency Plan has also translated into reduced capital expenditures related to growth and expansion of new markets, as Ting shifted focus to completing builds in existing markets. 31 Table of Contents Wavelo Wavelo includes the provision of full-service platforms and professional services providing a variety of solutions that support Communication Services providers ("CSPs"), including subscription and billing management, network orchestration and provisioning, and individual developer tools. Wavelo's focus is to provide accessible telecom software to CSPs globally, minimizing network and technical barriers and improving Internet access worldwide. Wavelo's suite of flexible, cloud-based software simplifies the management of mobile and Internet network access, enabling CSPs to better utilize their existing infrastructure, focus on customer experience and scale their businesses faster. Wavelo launched as a proven asset for CSPs, with EchoStar using Wavelos Mobile Network Operating System ("MONOS") software to drive additional value within its Digital Operator Platform, and Ting integrating Wavelos Internet Service Operating System ("ISOS") and Subscriber Management ("SM") software to enable faster subscriber growth and footprint expansion. The Wavelo segment also includes the Platypus brand and platform, our legacy billing solution for ISPs. The revenues from Wavelo's MONOS, ISOS, SM and professional services are all generated in the U.S. and our customer agreements have set contract lengths with the underlying CSP. Similarly, Wavelo's revenues from Platypus are largely generated in the U.S., with a small portion earned in Canada and other countries. Tucows Domains Tucows Domains includes wholesale and retail domain name registration services, as well as value added services derived through our OpenSRS, eNom, Ascio, EPAG and Hover brands. Tucows Domains revenues are earned primarily from the registration fees charged to resellers in connection with new, renewed and transferred domain name registrations. In addition, we earn revenues from the sale of retail domain name registration and email services to individuals and small businesses. Tucows Domains revenues are attributed to the country in which the contract originates, which is primarily in Canada and the U.S for OpenSRS and eNom brands whereas it is primarily in European nations for Ascio and EPAG. Our primary distribution channel is a global network of almost 35,000 resellers that operate in almost 200 countries and who typically provide their customers, the end-users of Internet-based services, with solutions for establishing and maintaining an online presence. Our primary focus is serving the needs of this network of resellers by providing the broadest portfolio of gTLD and the country code top-level domain options and related services, a white-label platform that facilitates the provisioning and management of domain names, a powerful Application Program Interface, easy-to-use interfaces, comprehensive management and reporting tools, and proactive and attentive customer service. Our services are integral to the solutions that our resellers deliver to their customers. We provide second tier support to our resellers by email, chat and phone in the event resellers experience issues or problems with our services. In addition, our Network Operating Center proactively monitors all services and network infrastructure to address deficiencies before customer services are impacted. We believe that the underlying platforms for our services are among the most mature, reliable and functional reseller-oriented provisioning and management platforms in our industry, and we continue to refine, evolve and improve these services for both resellers and end-users. Our business model is characterized primarily by non-refundable, up-front payments, which lead to recurring revenue and positive operating cash flow. Wholesale, primarily branded as OpenSRS, eNom, EPAG and Ascio, derives revenue from its domain name registration service. Together the OpenSRS, eNom, EPAG and Ascio Domain Services manage 24.3 million domain names under the Tucows, eNom, EPAG and Ascio ICANN registrar accreditations and for other registrars under their own accreditations. Domains under management have decreased slightly by 0.4 million since March 31, 2024. Value-Added Services include hosted email which provides email delivery and webmail access to millions of mailboxes, Internet security services, WHOIS privacy, publishing tools and other value-added services. All of these services are made available to end-users through a network of web hosts, ISPs, and other resellers around the world. In addition, we also derive revenue by monetizing domain names which are near the end of their lifecycle through expiry auction sale. Retail, primarily the Hover and eNom portfolio of websites, including eNom, and eNom Central, derive revenues from the sale of domain name registration and email services to individuals and small businesses. Our retail domain services also include our Personal Names Service based on over 34,000 surname domains which allows roughly two-thirds of Americans to purchase an email address based on their last name. The retail segment now includes the sale of the rights to its portfolio of surname domains used in connection with our RealNames email service and our Exact Hosting Service, that provides Linux hosting services for individuals and small businesses. KEY BUSINESS METRICS AND NON-GAAP MEASURES We regularly review a number of business metrics, including the following key metrics and non-GAAP measures, to assist us in evaluating our business, measure the performance of our business model, identify trends impacting our business, determine resource allocations, formulate financial projections and make strategic business decisions. The following tables set forth the key business metrics that we believe are the primary indicators of our performance for the periods presented: Ting Internet March 31, 2025 2024 (in '000's) Internet subscribers accounts under management 52 46 Internet owned infrastructure serviceable addresses1 133 124 Internet partner infrastructure serviceable addresses1 54 33 (1) Defined as premises to which Ting has the capability to provide a customer connection in a service area. 32 Table of Contents Tucows Domains For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in 000's) Total new, renewed and transferred-in domain name transactions 1 5,624 5,996 (1) Includes all transactions processed under our accreditations for our resellers and our retail brands, as well as transactions processed on behalf of other registrars using our platform. Tucows Domains March 31, 2025 2024 (in 000's) Registered using Registrar Accreditation belonging to the Tucows Group 17,469 17,555 Registered using Registrar Accreditation belonging to Resellers 6,817 7,145 Total domain names under management 24,286 24,700 Adjusted EBITDA Tucows reports all financial information in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Along with this information, to assist financial statement users in an assessment of our historical performance, we typically disclose and discuss a non-GAAP financial measure, Adjusted EBITDA, on investor conference calls and related events that excludes certain non-cash and other charges as we believe that the non-GAAP information enhances investors overall understanding of our financial performance, but should not be considered in isolation from or as a replacement for the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. Please see discussion of Adjusted EBITDA as well as the Adjusted EBITDA reconciliation to net income in the Results of Operations section below. OPPORTUNITIES, CHALLENGES AND RISKS Our revenue is primarily realized in U.S. dollars and a major portion of our operating expenses are paid in Canadian dollars. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar may have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results from operations. In particular, we may be adversely affected by a significant weakening of the U.S. dollar against the Canadian dollar on a quarterly and an annual basis. Our policy with respect to foreign currency exposure is to manage our financial exposure to certain foreign exchange fluctuations with the objective of neutralizing some or all of the impact of foreign currency exchange movements by entering into foreign exchange forward contracts to mitigate the exchange risk on a portion of our Canadian dollar exposure. We may not always enter into such forward contracts and such contracts may not always be available and economical for us. Additionally, the forward rates established by the contracts may be less advantageous than the market rate upon settlement. Ting As an ISP, we have invested and expect to continue to invest in selective fiber to the home (FTTH) deployments in select markets in the United States. The investments are a reflection of our ongoing efforts to build FTTH networks via public-private partnerships in communities we identify as having strong, unmet demand for FTTH services. Given the significant upfront build and operational investments for these FTTH deployments, there is risk that future technological and regulatory changes as well as competitive responses from incumbent local providers, may result in us not fully recovering these investments. Wavelo Wavelo launched as a proven asset for CSPs, with EchoStar using Wavelos MONOS software to drive additional value within its Digital Operator Platform. More recently, Ting Internet has also integrated Wavelos ISOS and SM software to enable faster subscriber growth and footprint expansion. With our external platform and professional services revenues concentrated to one customer in EchoStar, we are exposed to significant risk if we are unable to maintain this customer relationship or establish new relationships for any of our Platforms in the future. Additionally, our revenues as a platform provider are directly tied to the subscriber volumes of EchoStar's MVNO or MNO networks, and our profitability is contingent on the ability of EchoStar to continue to add subscribers, either from organic growth or from migration off legacy systems, onto our platforms. 33 Table of Contents Tucows Domains The increased competition in the market for Internet services in recent years, which we expect will continue to intensify in the short and long term, poses a material risk for us. As new registrars are introduced, existing competitors expand service offerings and offer price discounts to gain market share, we face pricing pressure, which can adversely impact our revenues and profitability. To address these risks, we have focused on leveraging the scalability of our infrastructure and our ability to provide proactive and attentive customer service to aggressively compete to attract new customers and to maintain existing customers. Substantially all of our Tucows Domains revenue is derived from domain name registrations and related value-added services from wholesale and retail customers using our provisioning and management platforms. The market for wholesale registrar services is both price sensitive and competitive and is evolving with the introduction of new gTLDs, particularly for large volume customers, such as large web hosting companies and owners of large portfolios of domain names. We have a relatively limited ability to increase the pricing of domain name registrations without negatively impacting our ability to maintain or grow our customer base. Growth in our Tucows Domains revenue is dependent upon our ability to continue to attract and retain customers by maintaining consistent domain name registration and value-added service renewal rates and to grow our customer relationships through refining, evolving and improving our provisioning platforms and customer service for both resellers and end-users. In addition, Tucows Domains also generate revenues through the sale of names from our portfolio of domain names and through the OpenSRS, eNom, and Ascio Domain Expiry Streams. From time-to-time certain vendors provide us with market development funds to expand or maintain the market position for their services. Any decision by these vendors to cancel or amend these programs for any reason may result in payments in future periods not being commensurate with what we have achieved during past periods. Other opportunities, challenges and risks The Company is entitled to a long-term payment stream that is a function of the margin generated by the transferred subscribers over the 10-year term of the EchoStar Purchase Agreement executed in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020 (Fiscal 2020). This consideration structure may not prove to be successful or profitable in the long-term to us if the existing subscriber base churns at an above average rate. Additionally, given EchoStar controls the revenues and costs incurred associated with the acquired subscribers, there could arise a situation where profitability for the subscriber base is diminished either by lower price points or cost inflation. Additionally, as part of the EchoStar Purchase Agreement, the Company retained a small number of customer accounts associated with one MNO agreement that was not reassigned to EchoStar at time of sale. We continue to be subject to the minimum revenue commitments previously agreed to with this excluded MNO agreement. The Company is able to continue adding customers under the excluded MNO network in order to meet the commitment. However, with no direct ability to change customer pricing and limited ability to renegotiate contract costs or significant terms, the Company may be unable to meet the minimum commitments with this MNO partner and could incur significant and recurring penalties until such a time that the contract is complete. These penalties would negatively impact our operational performance and financial results if enforced by the MNO. During the three months ended March 31, 2025, the Company has accrued $1.3 millionof penalties associated with the minimum commitment shortfall. The Company expects to incur penalties throughout 2025 and thereafter until the contract expires. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Management bases its estimates on historical experience, available market information, as applicable, and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances at the time they are made. Under different assumptions or conditions, the actual results will differ, potentially materially, from those previously estimated. Many of the conditions impacting these assumptions and estimates are outside of the Company's control. Management evaluates its estimates on an on-going basis. There have been no material changes to the critical accounting estimates as previously disclosed in Part II, Item 8 of our 2024 Annual Report as of the reporting date. 34 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE three months ended March 31, 2025 AS COMPARED TO THE three months ended March 31, 2024 NET REVENUES Ting Ting and its subsidiaries - Cedar, and Simply Bits includes the provision of high-speed Internet access services to select towns throughout the United States, with further expansion underway to both new and existing markets. Our primary sales channel is through the Ting website. The primary focus of this segment is to provide reliable Gigabit Fiber and Fixed Wireless Internet services to consumer and business customers. Revenues are all generated in the U.S., have no fixed contract terms and are billed on a monthly basis, with unlimited bandwidth based on a fixed price. The Companys billing cycle for all Ting Internet customers is computed based on the customers activation date. Since consideration is collected before the service period, revenue is initially deferred and recognized as the Company performs its obligation to provide Internet access within each reporting period. In addition, revenues associated with the sale of Internet hardware to subscribers are recognized when title and risk of loss is transferred to the subscriber and shipment has occurred. Incentive marketing credits given to customers are recorded as a reduction of revenue. In those cases, where payment is not received at the time of sale, as is the case for service requiring installation, then revenue is not recognized until a customer's service is activated. The Company records costs that reflect expected refunds, rebates and credit card charge-backs as a reduction of revenues at the time of the sale based on historical experiences and current expectations. Wavelo Platform Services Tucows' Platform Services include the following full-service platforms from Wavelo, including MONOS, ISOS, SM and our legacy Platypus ISP Billing software. Under each of these platforms there are a variety of solutions that support CSPs, including subscription and billing management, network orchestration and provisioning, and individual developer tools. Wavelo launched as a proven asset for CSPs, with EchoStar using Wavelos MONOS software to drive additional value within its Digital Operator Platform. More recently, Ting Internet has also integrated Wavelos ISOS and SM software to enable faster subscriber growth and footprint expansion. Wavelo's customers are billed monthly, on a postpaid basis. The monthly fees are variable, based on the volume of their subscribers utilizing the platform during a given month, to which minimums may apply. Customers may also be billed fixed platform fees and granted fixed credits as part of the consideration for long-term contracts. Consideration received is allocated to platform services and bundled professional services and recognized as each service obligation is fulfilled. Any fixed fees for Wavelo are recognized into revenue evenly over the service period, while variable usage fees are recognized each month as they are consumed. Professional services revenue is recognized as the hours of professional services granted to the customer are used or expire. When consideration for these platform services is received before the service is delivered, the revenue is initially deferred and recognized only as the Company performs its obligation to provide services. Likewise, if platform services are delivered before the Company has the unconditional right to invoice the customer, revenue is recognized as a Contract asset. Other Professional Services This revenue stream includes any other professional services earned in connection with the Wavelo business from the provision of standalone technology services development work. These are billed based on separate Statement of Work arrangements for bespoke feature development. The Company recognizes revenue at the point-in-time when the final acceptance criteria have been met. Tucows Domains Wholesale - Domain Services Domain registration contracts, which can be purchased for terms of one to ten years, provide our resellers and retail registrant customers with the exclusive right to a personalized internet address from which to build an online presence. The Company enters into domain registration contracts in connection with each new, renewed and transferred-in domain registration. At the inception of the contract, the Company charges and collects the registration fee for the entire registration period. Though fees are collected upfront, revenue from domain registrations are recognized ratably over the registration period as domain registration contracts contain a right to access license of IP, which is a distinct performance obligation measured over time. The registration period begins once the Company has confirmed that the requested domain name has been appropriately recorded in the registry under contractual performance standards. Historically, our wholesale domain service has constituted the largest portion of our business and encompasses all of our services as an accredited registrar related to the registration, renewal, transfer and management of domain names. In addition, this service fuels other revenue categories as it often is the initial service for which a reseller will engage us, enabling us to follow on with other services and allowing us to add to our portfolio by purchasing names registered through us upon their expiration. We expect Domain Services will continue to be the largest portion of our business and will continue to enable us to sell add-on services. The Company is an ICANN accredited registrar. Thus, the Company is the primary obligor with our reseller and retail registrant customers and is responsible for the fulfillment of our registrar services to those parties. As a result, the Company reports revenue in the amount of the fees we receive directly from our reseller and retail registrant customers. Our reseller customers maintain the primary obligor relationship with their retail customers, establish pricing and retain credit risk to those customers. Accordingly, the Company does not recognize any revenue related to transactions between our reseller customers and their ultimate retail customers. 35 Table of Contents Wholesale Value-Added Services We derive revenue from domain related value-added services like digital certifications, WHOIS privacy and hosted email and by providing our resellers and retail registrant customers with tools and additional functionality to be used in conjunction with domain registrations. All domain related value-added services are considered distinct performance obligations which transfer the promised service to the customer over the contracted term. Fees charged to customers for domain related value-added services are collected at the inception of the contract, and revenue is recognized on a straight-line basis over the contracted term, consistent with the satisfaction of the performance obligations. We also derive revenue from other value-added services, which primarily consists of proceeds from storefront and domain expiry streams. Retail We derive revenues mainly from Hover and eNoms retail properties through the sale of retail domain name registration and email services to individuals and small businesses. The retail segment also includes the sale of the rights to its portfolio of surname domains used in connection with our RealNames email service and Linux hosting services for websites through our Exact Hosting brand. Corporate and all other - Mobile services and eliminations Although we still provide mobile telephony services to a small subset of customers retained through the Ting Mobile brand as part of the EchoStar Purchase Agreement executed in Fiscal 2020, this revenue stream no longer represents the Company's strategic focus going forward. Instead, we have transitioned towards being a platform provider for CSPs globally via Wavelo. Retail telephony services and transition services revenues are excluded from segment EBITDA results as they are centrally managed and not monitored by or reported to our CEO by segment. Ting Mobile wireless usage contracts grant customers access to standard talk, text and data mobile services. Ting Mobile contracts are billed based on the customer's selected rate plan, which can either be usage based or an unlimited plan. All rate plan options are charged to customers on a postpaid, monthly basis at the end of their billing cycle. All future revenues associated with Retail Mobile Services stream will only be for this subset of customers retained by the Company, as mentioned above. Ting Mobile services are primarily contracted through the Ting website, for one month at a time and contain no commitment to renew the contract following each customer's monthly billing cycle. The Company's billing cycle for all Ting Mobile customers is computed based on the customer's activation date. In order to recognize revenue as the Company satisfies its obligations, we compute the amount of revenues earned but not billed from the end of each billing cycle to the end of each reporting period. In addition, revenues associated with the sale of wireless devices and accessories are recognized when title and risk of loss is transferred to the customer and shipment has occurred. Incentive marketing credits given to customers are recorded as a reduction of revenue. These mobile services revenue streams also include transitional services provided to EchoStar. These are billed monthly at set and established rates for services provided in period and include the provision of sales, marketing, order fulfillment, and data analytics related to the legacy customer base sold to EchoStar. The Company recognizes revenue as the Company satisfies its obligations to provide transitional services. As a form of consideration for the sale of the customer relationships, the Company receives a payout on the margin associated with the legacy customer base sold to EchoStar, over a period of 10 years. This has been classified as Other Income and not considered revenue in the current period. The following table presents our net revenues, by revenue source (Dollar amounts in thousands of U.S. dollars): (Dollar amounts in thousands of U.S. dollars) For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Ting: Fiber Internet Services $ 16,315 $ 14,102 Wavelo: Platform Services 11,396 9,365 Other professional services - 25 Total Wavelo 11,396 9,390 Tucows Domains: Wholesale Domain Services 50,004 48,151 Value Added Services 5,903 4,703 Total Wholesale 55,907 52,854 Retail 9,348 9,028 Total Tucows Domains 65,255 61,882 Corporate and all other: Mobile services and eliminations 1,643 2,083 $ 94,609 $ 87,457 Increase over prior period $ 7,152 Increase - percentage 8 % 36 Table of Contents The following table presents our net revenues, by revenue source, as a percentage of total net revenues (Dollar amounts in thousands of U.S. dollars): (Dollar amounts in thousands of U.S. dollars) For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Ting: Fiber Internet Services 17 % 16 % Wavelo: Platform Services 12 % 11 % Other professional services 0 % 0 % Total Wavelo 12 % 11 % Tucows Domains: Wholesale Domain Services 53 % 56 % Value Added Services 6 % 5 % Total Wholesale 59 % 61 % Retail 10 % 10 % Total Tucows Domains 69 % 71 % Corporate and all other: Mobile services and eliminations 2 % 2 % 100 % 100 % Total net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2025, increased by $7.1 million or 8%, to $94.6 million when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. The increase in net revenue was driven by Tucows Domains, Ting, and Wavelo; partially offset by a decline in revenues from Mobile Services and eliminations. The Tucows Domains segment increased $3.4 million primarily driven by pricing increases and strong expiry auction revenue performance. The Ting segment increased $2.2 million in the current period as a result of subscriber growth on our Fiber network across the United States. The Wavelo segment increased $2.0 million in the current period primarily driven by increased revenues from both existing and new customers. Mobile Services and eliminations decreased by $0.4 million attributable to decreased telephony services and decreased transitional services revenues, as well as a slight increase in intercompany revenues. Deferred revenue at March 31, 2025, increased by $5.5 million to $162.3 million from $156.8 million at December 31, 2024. This was driven by Tucows Domains as a result of the increase in current period billings for domain name registrations and service renewals, characteristic of the seasonal renewal pattern we see during the beginning of a Fiscal Year as well as the increase in pricing through the current period. This was furthered by a smaller increase from Wavelo as a result of the contract liability associated with select customer contracts. During both the three months ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024, a customer, EchoStar, within our Wavelo segment accounted for 12% and 10.5% of total net revenues. As of March 31, 2025, EchoStar also represented for 55% of total accounts receivable. As of December 31, 2024 EchoStar represented 56% of accounts receivable. Though a significant portion of the Companys domain services revenues are prepaid by our customers, where the Company does collect receivables, management judgment is required at the time revenue is recorded to assess whether the collection of the resulting receivables is reasonably assured. On an ongoing basis, we assess the ability of our customers to make required payments. Our allowance for doubtful accounts was $1.0 million as of March 31, 2025 and $0.9 million as of December 31, 2024, respectively. Based on this assessment, we expect the carrying amount of our outstanding receivables, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, to be fully collected. 37 Table of Contents Ting Ting generated $16.3 million in net revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2025, up $2.2 million or 16% compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. This growth is driven by subscriber growth across our Fiber network relative to the three months ended March 31, 2024, as well as the continued expansion of our Ting Internet footprint to new Ting towns throughout the United States. As of March 31, 2025, Ting Internet had access to 133,000 owned infrastructure serviceable addresses, 54,000 partner infrastructure serviceable addresses and 52,000 active subscribers under its management; compared to having access to 124,000 owned infrastructure serviceable addresses, 33,000 partner infrastructure serviceable addresses and 46,000 active subscribers under its management as of March 31, 2024. These figures exclude any changes in serviceable addresses and accounts attributable to the Simply Bits acquisition. Wavelo Platform Services Net revenues from Wavelo Platform Services for the three months ended March 31, 2025, increased by $2.0 million or 22%, to $11.4 million as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. The increase in net revenue is driven by incremental revenues from existing customers, EchoStar following contract renewal, Ting, as well as new customers. Intercompany revenues earned for provision of services on the ISOS and SM platforms between Wavelo and Ting are included in Wavelo's segment revenues for purposes of segment analysis, but are ultimately eliminated upon consolidation. The elimination impact is presented below in Corporate and all other - Mobile Services and Eliminations. Other Professional Services Net revenues from Other Professional Services for the three months ended March 31, 2025 decreased from less than $0.1M in the three months ended March 31, 2024 to NIL million in the current period. These revenues related to the provision of standalone technology services development work for our CSP customers and are non-recurring and often one-time in nature, and expectantly can fluctuate period over period. These revenues depend on the volume (if any) and scope of standalone technology services development work our customers engage us to perform. In the current period, we performed no standalone professional services for our customers. Tucows Domains Wholesale - Domain Services During the three months ended March 31, 2025, Wholesale domain services net revenue increased by $1.8 million or 4%, to $50 million as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. Increases from Wholesale domain registrations were driven by various price increases since March 31, 2024. 38 Table of Contents As of March 31, 2025 together, the OpenSRS, eNom, EPAG, and Ascio Domain Services manage 24.3 million domain names under the Tucows, eNom, EPAG and Ascio ICANN registrar accreditations and for other registrars under their own accreditations. Domains under management was down slightly by 0.4 million domain names compared to March 31, 2024. Wholesale - Value Added Services During the three months ended March 31, 2025, value-added services net revenue increased by $1.2 million or 26%, to $5.9 million as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. The increase in value-added service revenue was driven by strong expiry auction sales in the current period. Retail During the three months ended March 31, 2025, retail domain services net revenue increased by $0.3 million or 3%, to $9.3 million as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. This was driven by price increases across domain name registrations and RealNames products in the current period, partially offset by a decrease in portfolio sales. Corporate and all other - Mobile Services and Eliminations Net revenues from Mobile Services and eliminations for the three months ended March 31, 2025 decreased by $0.5 million or 24%, to $1.6 million as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. This was driven by decreased revenues of $0.2 million associated with the mobile telephony services and device revenues from the small group of customers retained by the Company as part of the EchoStar Purchase Agreement primarily a result of organic subscriber churn and plan mix shifting towards lower price point rate plans compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. This was also furthered by decreased transitional services of $0.1 million, from a decreased level of dedicated support services provided to EchoStar in connection with the legacy Ting Mobile customer base. Furthermore, there was an increase in intercompany corporate eliminations of $0.2 million, primarily a result of increased revenues associated with ISOS and SM platforms billing between Wavelo and Ting. COST OF REVENUES Ting Cost of revenues primarily includes the costs for provisioning high speed Internet access for Ting and its subsidiaries - Cedar, and Simply Bits, which is comprised of network access fees paid to third-parties to use their network, leased circuit costs to directly support enterprise customers, the personnel and related expenses (net of capitalization) for the physical planning, design, construction and build out of the physical Fiber network, and as well as personnel and related expenses (net of capitalization) for the installation, activation, repair, maintenance and overall field service delivery of the Ting business. Hardware costs include the cost of equipment sold to end customers, including routers, ONTs, and IPTV products, and any adjustments on this inventory. Other costs include field vehicle expenses, and small sundry equipment and supplies consumed in building the Fiber network. 39 Table of Contents Wavelo Platform Services Cost of revenues to provide the MONOS, ISOS and SM platforms, as well as our legacy Platypus ISP Billing software services including network access, provisioning and billing services for CSPs. This includes the amortization of any capitalized contract fulfillment costs over the period consistent with the pattern of transferring network access, provisioning and billing services to which the cost relates. Additionally, this includes any fees paid to third-party service providers primarily for printing services in connection with the Platypus ISP Billing software. Other Professional Services Cost of revenues to provide standalone technology services development work to our CSP customers to help support their businesses. This includes any personnel and contractor fees for any client service resources retained by the Company. Only a subset of the Company's employee base provides professional services to our customers. This cost reflects that group of resources. Tucows Domains Wholesale - Domain Services Cost of revenues for domain registrations represents the amortization of registry and accreditation fees on a basis consistent with the recognition of revenues from our customers, namely ratably over the term of provision of the service. Registry fees, the primary component of cost of revenues, are paid in full when the domain is registered, and are initially recorded as prepaid domain registry fees. This accounting treatment reasonably approximates a recognition pattern that corresponds with the provision of the services during the period. Market development funds that do not represent a payment for distinct goods or services provided by the Company, and thus do not meet the criteria for revenue recognition under ASU 2014-09, are reflected as cost of goods sold and are recognized as earned. Wholesale - Value-Added Services Costs of revenues for value-added services include licensing and royalty costs related to the provisioning of certain components for hosted email and fees paid to third-party hosting services. Fees payable for trust certificates and storefront customer domains are amortized on a basis consistent with the provision of service, generally one year, while email hosting fees and monthly printing fees are included in cost of revenues in the month they are incurred. Retail Costs of revenues for our provision and management of Internet services through our retail sites, Hover.com and the eNom branded sites, include the amortization of registry fees on a basis consistent with the recognition of revenues from our customers, namely ratably over the term of provision of the service. Registry fees, the primary component of cost of revenues, are paid in full when the domain is registered, and are recorded as prepaid domain registry fees and are expensed ratably over the renewal term. Costs of revenues for our surname portfolio represent the amortization of registry fees for domains added to our portfolio over the renewal period, which is generally one year, the value attributed under intangible assets to any domain name sold and any impairment charges that may arise from our assessment of our domain name intangible assets. Corporate and all other- Mobile Services and Eliminations Cost of revenues for retail mobile services includes the costs of provisioning mobile services, which is primarily our customers' voice, messaging, data usage provided by our MNO partner, and the costs of providing mobile phone hardware, which is the cost of mobile phone devices and SIM cards sold to our customers, order fulfillment related expenses, and inventory write-downs. Included in the costs of provisioning mobile services are any penalties associated with the minimum commitments with our MNO partner. These mobile services costs also include the personnel and related costs of transitional services provided to EchoStar. These are billed monthly at set and established rates for services provided in period and include the provision of sales, marketing, order fulfillment, and data analytics related to the legacy customer base sold to EchoStar. The Company recognizes costs as the Company satisfies its obligations to provide professional services. Network Expenses Network expenses include personnel and related expenses related to platform and network site reliability engineering, network operations centers, IT infrastructure and supply chain teams that support our various business segments. It also includes the depreciation and any impairment charges of property and equipment related to our networks and platforms, amortization of any intangible assets related to our networks and platforms, communication and productivity tool costs, and equipment maintenance costs. Communication and productivity tool costs include collaboration, customer support, bandwidth, co-location and provisioning costs we incur to support the supply of all our services across our segments. 40 Table of Contents The following table presents our cost of revenues, by revenue source: (Dollar amounts in thousands of U.S. dollars) For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Ting: Fiber Internet Services $ 5,837 $ 5,360 Wavelo: Platform Services 137 332 Other professional services - 19 Total Wavelo 137 351 Tucows Domains: Wholesale Domain Services 40,381 38,663 Value Added Services 480 547 Total Wholesale 40,861 39,210 Retail 4,179 4,136 Total Tucows Domains 45,040 43,346 Corporate and all other: Mobile services and eliminations 4,147 2,737 Network Expenses: Network, other costs 4,971 7,064 Network, depreciation of property and equipment 10,376 9,865 Network, amortization of intangible assets 366 365 Network, impairment of property and equipment 204 53 15,917 17,347 $ 71,078 $ 69,141 Increase over prior period $ 1,937 Increase - percentage 3 % The following table presents our cost of revenues, as a percentage of total cost of revenues for the periods presented: For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Ting: Fiber Internet Services 8 % 8 % Wavelo: Platform Services 0 % 0 % Other professional services 0 % 0 % Total Wavelo 0 % 0 % Tucows Domains: Wholesale Domain Services 57 % 56 % Value Added Services 1 % 1 % Total Wholesale 58 % 57 % Retail 6 % 6 % Total Tucows Domains 64 % 63 % Corporate and all other: Mobile services and eliminations 5 % 4 % Network Expenses: Network, other costs 7 % 10 % Network, depreciation of property and equipment 15 % 14 % Network, amortization of intangible assets 1 % 1 % Network, impairment of property and equipment 0 % 0 % 23 % 25 % 100 % 100 % 41 Table of Contents Total cost of revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2025, increased by $1.9 million or 3%, to $71.1 million from $69.1 million in the three months ended March 31, 2024. The three-month increase in cost of revenues was driven by increases across Tucows Domains, Mobile Service and eliminations, and Ting of $1.7 million, $1.4 million, and $0.4 million, respectively. The increase in Tucows Domains of $1.7 million was primarily a result of cost increases through the current period. The increase in Mobile Services and eliminations of $1.4 million was primarily a result of higher mobile telephony services costs due to MNO penalties and plan mix changes in the current period. The increase in Ting of $0.2 million was primarily driven by the costs of revenues associated with growth in active subscribers. These increases were partially offset by decreases across Network Expenses and Wavelo of $1.4 million and $0.2 million, respectively. The decrease in Network Expenses of $1.4 million was primarily driven by decreased people and software costs following the execution of the 2024 Capital Efficiency Plan in October 2024. The decrease in Wavelo of $0.2 million was driven by the absence of contract fulfillment costs associated with select customer contracts. Deferred costs of fulfillment as of March 31, 2025, increased by $4.0 million, or 3%, to $121 million from $117.0 million at December 31, 2024. This was driven by Tucows Domains with an increase of $4.0 million from the increase in current period billings for domain name registrations and service renewals, characteristic of the seasonal renewal pattern we see during the beginning of a Fiscal Year as well as the increase in registry costs through the current period, consistent with the increase in deferred revenues discussed above. Ting During the three months ended March 31, 2025, costs related to provisioning high speed Internet access for Ting and its subsidiaries - Cedar and Simply Bits, increased by $0.4 million or 7%, to $5.8 million as compared to three months ended March 31, 2024. Consistent with the discussion above in the Net Revenue section, the subscriber growth across our Fiber network drove an increase in costs of revenue. Wavelo Platform Services Cost of revenues from Wavelo Platform Services for the three months ended March 31, 2025 decreased by $0.2 million or 65% to $0.1 million as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. This was driven by the absence of the amortization of previously capitalized costs incurred to fulfill the EchoStar Master Services Agreement ("MSA") over the term of the agreement, as the agreement ended in July 2024. Other Professional Services Cost of revenues from Other Professional Services for the three months ended March 31, 2025 decreased from less than $0.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 to NIL million in the current period. Costs of revenues to provide other professional services change depending on the nature and scope of work we are engaged to perform for our customers for select statements of work. These cost of revenues depend on the volume (if any) and scope of standalone technology services development work our customers engage us to perform. In the current period, we performed no standalone professional services for our customers. The decrease is aligned to the decrease in Net Revenues discussed above. 42 Table of Contents Tucows Domains Wholesale - Domain Services Costs for Wholesale domain services for the three months ended March 31, 2025, increased by $1.7 million or 4%, to $40.4 million, as compared to $38.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. Increases from Wholesale domain registrations were primarily driven by various registry gTLD cost increases since March 31, 2024. The increase is aligned to the increase in Net Revenues discussed above. Wholesale - Value-Added Services Costs for wholesale value-added services for the three months ended March 31, 2025, remained flat at $0.5 million, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. Retail Costs for retail domain services for the three months ended March 31, 2025, increased by $0.1 million or 2%, to $4.2 million, as compared to $4.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. Corporate and all other - Mobile Services and Eliminations Cost of revenues from Mobile Services and Eliminations for the three months ended March 31, 2025, increased by $1.4 million or 52%, to $4.1 million as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. The increase is primarily driven by increased costs associated with mobile telephony services from the small group of customers retained by the Company as part of the EchoStar Purchase Agreement due to plan mix changes towards unlimited plans. The Company accrued $1.3 million in penalties associated with the MNO minimum commitment shortfall in the three months ended March 31, 2025, as compared to $0.2 million in the three months ended March 31, 2024. The company expects to continue to incur penalties through the end of Fiscal 2025 and thereafter should limited subscriber growth persist. The increase on cost of revenues was partially offset by a decrease in transitional services costs provided to EchoStar in connection with the legacy Ting Mobile customer base, consistent with the above discussion around net revenues. Network Expenses Network expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2025, decreased by $1.4 million or 8%, to $15.9 million, as compared to $17.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The current period decrease was primarily driven by $1.9 million in personnel related cost savings resulting from the 2024 Capital Efficiency Plan, executed in October 2024, as well as some savings in colocation and bandwidth after shutting down some colocation sites. This was offset by increased network depreciation of $0.5 million. 43 Table of Contents SALES AND MARKETING Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs. These costs include commissions and related expenses of our sales, product management, public relations, call center, support and marketing personnel. Other sales and marketing expenses include customer acquisition costs, advertising and other promotional costs. (Dollar amounts in thousands of U.S. dollars) For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Sales and marketing $ 10,991 $ 18,565 Decrease over prior period $ (7,574 ) Decrease - percentage (41 )% Percentage of net revenues 12 % 21 % Sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2025, decreased by $7.6 million, or 41%, to $11.0 million as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. The decrease was primarily driven by reduced personnel costs following the 2024 Capital Efficiency Plan, as well as Ting's reduced marketing and customer acquisition spend, as the segment looks to measure and optimize channel spending. TECHNICAL OPERATIONS AND DEVELOPMENT Technical operations and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs and related expenses required to support the development of new or enhanced service offerings and the maintenance and upgrading of existing infrastructure. This includes expenses incurred in the research, design and development of technology that we use to register domain names, provide Wavelo's platform services, provide Ting's Internet Services, email, retail, domain portfolio and other Internet services. All technical operations and development costs are expensed as incurred. (Dollar amounts in thousands of U.S. dollars) For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Technical operations and development $ 4,407 $ 5,016 Increase (decrease) over prior period $ (609 ) Increase (decrease) - percentage (12 )% Percentage of net revenues 5 % 6 % Technical operations and development expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2025, decreased by $0.6 million, or 12%, to $4.4 million when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. The decrease was primarily driven by reduced personnel costs following the 2024 Capital Efficiency Plan. 44 Table of Contents GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE General and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and related costs for managerial and administrative personnel, fees for professional services, public listing expenses, rent, foreign exchange and other general corporate expenses. (Dollar amounts in thousands of U.S. dollars) For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 General and administrative $ 9,242 $ 9,818 Decrease over prior period $ (576 ) Decrease - percentage (6 )% Percentage of net revenues 10 % 11 % General and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2025, decreased by $0.6 million or -6%, to $9.2 million as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. The decrease was primarily driven by reduced personnel costs following the 2024 Capital Efficiency Plan, favorable foreign exchange impact in the current period, and reduced professional services fees. These decreases were partially offset by increased facilities expenses. DEPRECIATION OF PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT (Dollar amounts in thousands of U.S. dollars) For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Depreciation of property and equipment $ 84 $ 122 Decrease over prior period $ (38 ) Decrease - percentage (31 )% Percentage of net revenues 0 % 0 % Depreciation costs for the three months ended March 31, 2025, decreased by less than $0.1 million, to $0.1 million as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. AMORTIZATION OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS (Dollar amounts in thousands of U.S. dollars) For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Amortization of intangible assets $ 840 $ 1,314 Decrease over prior period $ (474 ) Decrease - percentage (36 )% Percentage of net revenues 1 % 2 % Amortization of intangible assets for the three months ended March 31, 2025, decreased by $0.5 million or 36% to $0.8 million as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. The decrease was driven in part by the completed amortization of brand and customer relationships associated with the Company's Fiscal 2017 acquisition of eNom. The amortization of the related assets was completed in January 2024. 45 Table of Contents OTHER INCOME (EXPENSES) (Dollar amounts in thousands of U.S. dollars) For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Other income (expense), net $ (10,934 ) $ (8,191 ) Increase (decrease) over prior period $ (2,743 ) Increase (decrease) - percentage 33 % Percentage of net revenues 12 % 9 % Other income (expenses) during the three months ended March 31, 2025, decreased by $2.7 million when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. The decrease in income was primarily driven by higher net interest expense, lower income earned on sale of Transferred Assets to EchoStar, and lower other income. Net interest expense increased by $1.7 million, driven by the inclusion of $1.0 million interest expense associated with the 2023 and 2024 Term Notes, a $0.7 million increase due to lower interest expense capitalization associated with Fiber network assets under construction, a $0.5 million increase due to the absence of money market fund income post-securitization, and a $0.4 million increase in interest expense associated with the Generate agreement; partially offset by a $0.9 million decrease in interest expense related to the Credit Facility for the Tucows businesses excluding Ting due to the reduction in outstanding principal balance. Income earned on sale of Transferred Assets to EchoStar decreased by $0.9 million. Other income decreased by $0.1 million driven by the absence of sublease rental income and the share of the current period loss in Orange Domains joint venture. INCOME TAXES (Dollar amounts in thousands of U.S. dollars) For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Provision for income taxes $ 2,166 $ 1,774 Increase in provision over prior period $ 392 Increase - percentage * Effective tax rate (17 )% (7 )% * not meaningful Income tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2025, increased by $0.4 million when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. The change in effective tax rate is primarily due an increase in foreign tax expense, driven by strong performance in our Domain segment. We regularly evaluate our deferred tax assets, including net operating losses, to determine whether a valuation allowance is necessary based on our expectations of future taxable income. The increase in our valuation allowance on net operating losses reflects our assessment of the likelihood of realizing future tax benefits associated with these losses. 46 Table of Contents ADJUSTED EBITDA We believe that the provision of this non-GAAP measure allows investors to evaluate the operational and financial performance of our core business using similar evaluation measures to those used by management. We use Adjusted EBITDA to measure our performance and prepare our budgets. Since Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial performance measure, our calculation of Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to other similarly titled measures of other companies and should not be considered in isolation, as a substitute for, or superior to measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. Because Adjusted EBITDA is calculated before recurring cash charges, including interest expense and taxes, and is not adjusted for capital expenditures or other recurring cash requirements of the business, it should not be considered as a liquidity measure. For liquidity measures, see the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows included in Part I, of this Quarterly Report. Non-GAAP financial measures do not reflect a comprehensive system of accounting and may differ from non-GAAP financial measures with the same or similar captions that are used by other companies and/or analysts and may differ from period to period. We endeavor to compensate for these limitations by providing the relevant disclosure of the items excluded in the calculation of Adjusted EBITDA to net income based on GAAP, which should be considered when evaluating the Company's results. Tucows strongly encourages investors to review its financial information in its entirety and not to rely on a single financial measure. Our Adjusted EBITDA definition excludes provision for income tax, depreciation, amortization of intangible assets, asset impairment, interest expense (net), loss on debt extinguishment, accretion of contingent liabilities, stock-based compensation, gains and losses from unrealized foreign currency transactions and costs that are one-time in nature and not indicative of on-going performance (profitability), including acquisition and transition costs. Gains and losses from unrealized foreign currency transactions removes the unrealized effect of the change in the mark-to-market values on outstanding foreign currency contracts not designated in accounting hedges, as well as the unrealized effect from the translation of monetary accounts denominated in non-U.S. dollars to U.S. dollars. The following table reconciles net income (loss) to adjusted EBITDA: Reconciliation of Net income (loss) before Provision for Income Taxes to Adjusted EBITDA Three Months Ended March 31, (In Thousands of US Dollars) 2025 2024 Net Income (Loss) for the period $ (15,133 ) $ (26,484 ) Less: Provision for income taxes 2,166 1,774 Depreciation of property and equipment 10,460 9,987 Impairment and loss on disposition of property and equipment 204 53 Amortization of intangible assets 1,205 1,679 Interest expense, net 13,613 11,879 Stock-based compensation 1,505 1,873 Unrealized loss (gain) on foreign exchange revaluation of foreign denominated monetary assets and liabilities (364 ) 390 Acquisition and other costs (1) 15 3,051 Adjusted EBITDA $ 13,671 $ 4,202 1 Acquisition and other costs represent transaction-related expenses, transitional expenses, such as redundant post-acquisition expenses. Expenses include severance or transitional costs associated with department, operational or overall company restructuring efforts, including geographic alignments. Adjusted EBITDA increased by $9.5 million or 226%, to $13.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. The increase in Adjusted EBITDA from period-to-period was primarily driven by increases in Ting, Wavelo, and Tucows Domains. Ting contribution increased $8.7 million, primarily driven by subscriber growth across the markets we serve, the reduction in spend across sales and marketing activities, and reduced personnel costs from the execution of the 2024 Capital Efficiency Plan, and to a lesser extent, the February 2024 workforce reduction. The Wavelo contribution increased $1.7 million, primarily driven by the recognition of incremental revenues from both existing and new customers. Tucows Domains contribution increased by $1.5 million from strong expiry and wholesale sales through the current period. These increases in Adjusted EBITDA were partially offset by decreases in Mobile Services and eliminations. Mobile Services and eliminations contribution decreased $2.4 million primarily from increasing MNO minimum purchase obligation related penalties and a decrease in income earned on sale of Transferred Assets to EchoStar, offset by reduced personnel costs with the execution of the 2024 Capital Efficiency Plan. 47 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES As of March 31, 2025, our cash and cash equivalents balance decreased by $18.2 million, our funds held by trustee balance increased by $0.5 million, and our secured notes reserve funds balance increased by $0.1 million respectively when compared to December 31, 2024. The decrease in our cash balance was driven primarily by $11.3 million from cash used in operating activities, $5.4 million for the continued investment in property and equipment primarily driven by Ting Internet expansion and both Wavelo and Domains platforms, and $2.5 million related to the repayment of the 2023 Credit Facility; partially offset by $1.0 million proceeds on disposal of property and equipment. 2024 Ting Securitized Financing Facility On August 20, 2024, the Company through its wholly owned subsidiaries, including Ting, entered into a definitive agreement relating to a securitized financing facility related to a privately placed securitized transaction. On the closing date, Ting issued (i) $55,000,000 of its 5.63% Secured Fiber Revenue Notes, Series 2024-1, Class A-2 (the "2024 Class A-2 Notes"), (ii) $8,000,000 of its 6.85% Secured Fiber Revenue Notes, Series 2024-1, Class B (the "2024 Class B Notes") and (iii) $16,000,000 initial principal amount of 9.15% Secured Fiber Revenue Notes, Series 2024-1, Class C (the "2024 Class C Notes" and together with the 2024 Class A-2 Notes and the 2024 Class B Notes, the "2024 Term Notes"). The offering was exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). Subject to certain limitations, the 2024 Notes are secured by certain of the Company's revenue-generating assets, consisting principally of the Securitized Assets, that are owned by certain other limited-purpose, bankruptcy-remote, wholly-owned indirect subsidiaries of the Company (collectively, the "Securitization Entities") that act as guarantors under the Base Indenture. The 2024 Term Notes were issued under the Base indenture, dated as of May 4, 2023 (as supplemented by the Base Indentures Supplement No. 1, dated as of November 10, 2023), by and between the Issuer, the asset parties party thereto and Citibank, N.A., as trustee (in such capacity, the "Indenture Trustee") and securities intermediary and a series supplement to the Base Indenture dated as of the Closing Date (the "Series 2024-1 Supplement"), by and among the Issuer, the asset parties party thereto and the Indenture Trustee. The Base Indenture and the Series 2024-1 Supplement will allow the Issuer to issue additional series of notes in the future, subject to certain conditions set forth therein. Interest payments on the 2024 Term Notes are payable on a monthly basis. The legal final maturity date of the 2024 Term Notes is in August of 2054, but, unless earlier prepaid to the extent permitted under the Indenture, the anticipated repayment date of the 2024 Term Notes will be in August 2029. If the Issuer has not repaid or refinanced the 2024 Term Notes prior to the anticipated repayment date, additional interest will accrue on the 2024 Term Notes in an amount equal to the greater of (A) 5.00% per annum and (B) a per annum interest rate equal to the excess, if any, by which the sum of the following exceeds the original interest rate of such 2024 Term Note (i) the yield to maturity (adjusted to a "mortgage equivalent basis" pursuant to the standards and practices of the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association) on such anticipated repayment date of the United States Treasury Security having a term closest to 10 years, plus (ii) 5.00%, plus (iii) (x) for the 2024 Class A-2 Notes, 2.00%, (y) for the 2024 Class B Notes, 3.25% and (z) for the 2024 Class C Notes, 7.00%. Please see the discussion in the Material Cash Requirements section below. 2023 Credit Facility On September 22, 2023, the Borrowers and certain other subsidiaries of the Company, as guarantors, entered into the 2023 Credit Agreement (the 2023 Credit Agreement) with Bank of Montreal, as administrative agent (BMO or the Agent), and the lenders party thereto, to, among other things, provide the Borrowers with a revolving credit facility in an aggregate amount not to exceed $240 million (the 2023 Credit Facility). The Borrowers may request an increase to the 2023 Credit Facility through new commitments of up to $60M if the Total Funded Debt to Adjusted EBITDA Ratio (as defined in the 2023 Credit Agreement) is less than 3.75:1.00. The Credit Facility expires on September 22, 2026, which is the third anniversary of the effective date of the 2023 Credit Facility. The 2023 Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants, and events of default. The 2023 Credit Agreement requires that the Company comply with certain customary non-financial covenants and restrictions. In addition, the Company has agreed to comply with the following financial covenants: (1) a leverage ratio by maintaining at all times a Total Funded Debt to Adjusted EBITDA Ratio of not more than (i) 4.50:1:00 at any time from and after the Closing Date to and including December 30, 2023 (ii) 4.25:1:00 from December 31, 2023 to and including March 30, 2024 (iii) 4.00:1.00 from March 31, 2024 to and including June 29, 2024 and (iv) 3.75:1.00 thereafter and (2) an interest coverage ratio by maintaining as of the end of each rolling four financial quarter period, an Interest Coverage Ratio (as defined in the 2023 Credit Agreement) of not less than 3.00:1.00. As of March 31, 2025 the Company's leverage ratio was 3.14:1.00 and Interest Coverage Ratio was 3.76:1.00. During the three months ended March 31, 2025, the Company made net repayments of $2.5 million towards the 2023 Credit Facility. The Company ended March 31, 2025 with a remaining principal balance of $192.9 million, for which the required repayment is due in 2026. As of March 31, 2025, the Company held contracts in the amount of $11.2 million with BMO to trade U.S. dollars in exchange for Canadian dollars under an uncommitted treasury risk management facility which assists the Company with hedging Canadian dollar exposures. Please see the discussion in the Material Cash Requirements section below. Cash Flow from Operating Activities Net cash outflows from operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2025 totaled $11.3 million, an increase of 98% when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. Net loss, after adjusting for items not involving cash, during the three months ended March 31, 2025 was $0.9 million, a decrease of 88% when compared to the prior quarter. Net income included non-cash charges and recoveries of $14.8 million such as depreciation, stock-based compensation, amortization of intangible assets, amortization of debt discount and issuance costs, net amortization of contract costs, impairment of property and equipment, deferred income taxes (recovery), net right of use operating asset or liability, and undistributed earnings of equity method investee. In addition, changes in our working capital contributed to a net cash outflow of $10.9 million. Cash utilization of $21.0 million from the changes in accrued liabilities, deferred costs of fulfillment, accounts receivable, and customer deposits, were partially offset by positive cash contributions of $10.1 million from the changes in deferred revenue, accounts payable, prepaid expenses and deposits, income taxes recoverable, inventory, and accreditation fees payable. 48 Table of Contents Cash Flow from Financing Activities Net cash outflows from financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2025 totaled $2.5 million, a decrease of 55% when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. The total cash outflows related to a $2.5 million repayment towards the 2023 Credit Facility. Cash Flow from Investing Activities Investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2025 used net cash of $4.5 million, a decrease of 69% when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. Cash outflows of $5.4 million primarily related to the investment in property and equipment, primarily to support the continued expansion of our Ting Internet Fiber network footprints in North Carolina, Colorado, and California as we seek to extend both our current network and expand to new markets, though at a slower rate following the execution of the 2024 Capital Efficiency Plan. These cash outflows were partially offset by $1.0 million of proceeds on disposal of property and equipment. Material Cash Requirements As of March 31, 2025, the Company's Cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and secured notes reserve funds balances totaled $55.0 million, of which $43.0 million belonged to Ting Internet and $12.0 million belonged to the other Tucows' segments. In our 2024 Annual Report, we disclosed our material cash requirements of both the Ting segment as well as the other segments excluding Ting. As of March 31, 2025, other than the items mentioned below, there have been no other material changes to our material cash requirements outside the ordinary course of business. Ting As of March 31, 2025, the balance owing on the Unit Purchase Agreement was $122.2 million ("Note 18 - Redeemable preferred units" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, of this report). On May 4, 2023, Tucows, through its indirect and wholly owned subsidiaries, including Ting Fiber, LLC entered into a definitive agreement relating to a securitized financing facility where Ting Issuer LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, issued the 2023 Term Notes for a total value of $238.5 million and 2024 Term Notes for a total value of $63.0 million ("Note 7 - Notes Payable" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, of this report). The combination of these agreements is expected to fund Ting operations through Fiscal 2025. Ting committed to workforce reductions on February 7, 2024 and October 30, 2024, which aimed to reduce Tings workforce by 13% and 42%, respectively. Both plans were designed to lower year-over-year operating expenses by streamlining operations, reducing capital activities and reducing operating expenses within the Ting operating segment. Ting incurred a net loss of $20.2 million and $28.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and the three months ended March 31, 2024, respectively. As of March 31, 2025, Ting had $26.0 million in unrestricted cash and cash equivalents, $1.2 million in accounts receivable, $1.0 million in accounts payable and $6.7 million in accrued liabilities. Comparatively, as of December 31, 2024, Ting had $45.4 million in unrestricted cash and cash equivalents, $1.2 million in accounts receivable, $1.2 million in accounts payable and $15.8 million in accrued liabilities. At March 31, 2025, Tings long-term liabilities included $288.6 million payable on the 2023 and 2024 Term Notes, as well as $122.2 million on the Redeemable Preferred Units. Ting incurred an operating cash flow deficit of $17.0 million and $16.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024, respectively. Ting has scheduled interest payments of $38.7 million in the twelve months following March 31, 2025. Ting may not be able to meet its financial obligations over the twelve months following March 31, 2025 without additional financing. Ting has historically relied on the proceeds from its Redeemable Preferred Units as well as its 2023 and 2024 Term Notes to fund its operations and the expansion of the Ting Fiber Internet footprint. Ting currently has limited capacity to expand its borrowings under the Base Indenture and it is uncertain whether Ting will be able to access additional Milestone Funding under the Redeemable Preferred Unit facility. Our ability to obtain additional financing if required will be subject to a number of factors, including market conditions, our operating performance and investor sentiment. If we are unable to raise additional capital when required or on acceptable terms, we may have to significantly restrict our operations or obtain funds by entering into agreements on unattractive terms, which would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, stock price and our relationships with third parties with whom we have business relationships, at least until additional funding is obtained, and which could result in additional dilution to our stockholders. If we do not have sufficient funds to continue operations, Ting could be required to seek bankruptcy protection or other alternatives that would likely result in our stockholders losing some or all of their investment in us. Tucows Businesses Excluding Ting Tucows businesses excluding Ting, acquisitions and capital investments have been funded by the Company's operating income and the Company's existing 2023 Credit Agreement. As of March 31, 2025, the Companys 2023 Credit Facility had an outstanding balance of $192.9 million. Tucows businesses excluding Ting make principal repayments from time to time. For Fiscal 2025, the Company plans to fund the cash requirements of Tucows businesses excluding Ting solely through operating income, while making discretionary loan repayments to create greater operating flexibility and access to additional financing. In the long-term, Tucows businesses excluding Ting may seek additional financing to accelerate the growth of our Wavelo business, repurchase shares or future acquisitions. The Company's 2023 Credit Facility expires on September 30, 2026 and the Company will be required to refinance the 2023 Credit Facility once it becomes due. 49 Table of Contents