Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. In addition to historical financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that are based upon current plans, expectations and beliefs that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth under Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Our fiscal year ends on December 31. Overview We are the leader in the Cloud Communications Platform category. We enable developers to build, scale and operate real-time communications within their software applications via our simple-to-use Application Programming Interfaces (API). The power, flexibility, and reliability offered by our software building blocks empowers companies of virtually every shape and size to build world-class engagement into their customer experience. Our platform consists of three layers: our Engagement Cloud, Programmable Communications Cloud and Super Network. Our Engagement Cloud software is a set of APIs that handles the higher level communication logic needed for nearly every type of customer engagement. These APIs are focused on the business challenges that a developer is looking to address, allowing our customers to more quickly and easily build better ways to engage with their customers throughout their journey. Our Programmable Communications Cloud software is a set of APIs that enables developers to embed voice, messaging and video capabilities into their applications. The Programmable Communications Cloud is designed to support almost all the fundamental ways humans communicate, unlocking innovators to address just about any communication market. The Super Network is our software layer that allows our customers software to communicate with connected devices globally. It interconnects with communications networks around the world and continually analyzes data to optimize the quality and cost of communications that flow through our platform. The Super Network also contains a set of APIs that gives our customers access to more foundational components of our platform, like phone numbers. As of March 31, 2018, our customers applications that are embedded with our products could reach users via voice, messaging and video in nearly every country in the world, and our platform offered customers local telephone numbers in over 100 countries and text-to-speech functionality in 26 languages. We support our global business through 27 cloud data centers in nine regions around the world and have developed contractual relationships with network service providers globally. Our business model is primarily focused on reaching and serving the needs of software developers, who we believe are becoming increasingly influential in technology decisions in a wide variety of companies. We call this approach our Business Model for Innovators, which empowers developers by reducing friction and upfront costs, encouraging experimentation, and enabling developers to grow as customers as their ideas succeed. We established and maintain our leadership position by engaging directly with, and cultivating, our developer community, which has led to the rapid adoption of our platform. We reach developers through community events and conferences, including our SIGNAL developer conferences, to demonstrate how every developer can create differentiated applications incorporating communications using our products. Once developers are introduced to our platform, we provide them with a low friction trial experience. By accessing our easy-to-adopt APIs, extensive self-service documentation and customer support team, developers build our products into their applications and then test such applications through free trials. Once they have decided to use our products beyond the initial free trial period, customers provide their credit card information and only pay for the actual usage of our products. Historically, we have acquired the substantial majority of our customers through this self-service model. As customers expand their usage of our platform, our relationships with them often evolve to include business leaders within their organizations. Once our customers reach a certain spending level with us, we support them with account executives or customer success advocates within our sales organization to ensure their satisfaction and expand their usage of our products. When potential customers do not have the available developer resources to build their own applications, we refer them to our network of Solution Partners, who embed our products in their solutions, such as software for contact centers, sales force automation and marketing automation that they sell to other businesses. 25 Table of Contents We supplement our self-service model with a sales effort aimed at engaging larger potential customers, strategic leads and existing customers through a direct sales approach. We augment this sales effort with the Twilio Enterprise Plan, which provides capabilities for advanced security, access management and granular administration, and is targeted at the needs of enterprise scale customers. Our sales organization works with technical and business leaders who are seeking to leverage software to drive competitive differentiation. As we educate these leaders on the benefits of developing applications that incorporate our products to differentiate their business, they often consult with their developers regarding implementation. We believe that developers are often advocates for our products as a result of our developer-focused approach. Our sales organization includes sales development, inside sales, field sales, sales engineering and customer success personnel. We generate the substantial majority of our revenue from customers based on their usage of our software products that they have incorporated into their applications. In addition, customers typically purchase one or more telephone numbers from us, for which we charge a monthly flat fee per number. Some customers also choose to purchase various levels of premium customer support for a monthly fee. Customers that register in our self-service model typically pay upfront via credit card and draw down their balance as they purchase or use our products. Most of our customers draw down their balance in the same month they pay up front and, as a result, our deferred revenue and customer deposits liability at any particular time is not a meaningful indicator of future revenue. As our customers usage grows, some of our customers enter into contracts and are invoiced monthly in arrears. Many of these customer contracts have terms of 12 months and typically include some level of minimum revenue commitment. Most customers with minimum revenue commitment contracts generate a significant amount of revenue in excess of their minimum revenue commitment in any period. Historically, the aggregate minimum commitment revenue from customers with whom we have contracts has constituted a minority of our revenue in any period, and we expect this to continue in the future. Our developer-focused products are delivered to customers and users through our Super Network, which uses software to optimize communications on our platform. We interconnect with communications networks globally to deliver our products, and therefore we have arrangements with network service providers in many regions in the world. Historically, a substantial majority of our cost of revenue has been network service provider fees. We continue to optimize our network service provider coverage and connectivity through continuous improvements in routing and sourcing in order to lower the usage expenses we incur for network service provider fees. As we benefit from our platform optimization efforts, we sometimes pass these savings on to customers in the form of lower usage prices on our products in an effort to drive increased usage and expand the reach and scale of our platform. In the near term, we intend to operate our business to expand the reach and scale of our platform and to grow our revenue, rather than to maximize our gross margins. We have achieved significant growth in recent periods. In the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, our revenue was $129.1 million and $87.4 million, respectively. In the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, our 10 largest Active Customer Accounts generated an aggregate of 18% and 25% of our revenue, respectively. For each of the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, among our 10 largest Active Customer Accounts we had three Variable Customer Accounts representing 8% and 7% of our revenue, respectively. For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, our Base Revenue was $117.5 million and $80.6 million, respectively. We incurred a net loss of $23.7 million and $14.2 million, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. See the section titled Key Business MetricsBase Revenue below for a discussion of Base Revenue. Key Business Metrics Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 Number of Active Customer Accounts ( as of end date of period ) 53,985 40,696 Base Revenue ( in thousands ) $ 117,507 $ 80,643 Base Revenue Growth Rate 46 % 62 % Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate 132 % 141 % Number of Active Customer Accounts. We believe that the number of our Active Customer Accounts is an important indicator of the growth of our business, the market acceptance of our platform and future revenue trends. We define an Active Customer Account at the end of any period as an individual account, as identified by a unique account identifier, for which we have recognized at least $5 of revenue in the last month of the period. We believe that the use of our platform by our customers at or above the $5 per month threshold is a stronger indicator of potential future engagement than trial usage of our platform or usage at levels below $5 per month. A single organization may constitute multiple unique 26 Table of Contents Active Customer Accounts if it has multiple account identifiers, each of which is treated as a separate Active Customer Account. In the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, revenue from Active Customer Accounts represented over 99% of total revenue in each period. Base Revenue. We monitor Base Revenue as one of the more reliable indicators of future revenue trends. Base Revenue consists of all revenue other than revenue from large Active Customer Accounts that have never entered into 12-month minimum revenue commitment contracts with us, which we refer to as Variable Customer Accounts. While almost all of our customer accounts exhibit some level of variability in the usage of our products, based on our experience, we believe that Variable Customer Accounts are more likely to have significant fluctuations in usage of our products from period to period, and therefore that revenue from Variable Customer Accounts may also fluctuate significantly from period to period. This behavior is best evidenced by the decision of such customers not to enter into contracts with us that contain minimum revenue commitments, even though they may spend significant amounts on the use of our products and they may be foregoing more favorable terms often available to customers that enter into committed contracts with us. This variability adversely affects our ability to rely upon revenue from Variable Customer Accounts when analyzing expected trends in future revenue. For historical periods through March 31, 2016, we defined a Variable Customer Account as an Active Customer Account that (i) had never signed a minimum revenue commitment contract with us for a term of at least 12 months and (ii) had met or exceeded 1% of our revenue in any quarter in the periods presented through March 31, 2016. To allow for consistent period-to-period comparisons, in the event a customer account qualified as a Variable Customer Account as of March 31, 2016, or a previously Variable Customer Account ceased to be an Active Customer Account as of such date, we included such customer account as a Variable Customer Account in all periods presented. For reporting periods starting with the three months ended June 30, 2016, we define a Variable Customer Account as a customer account that (a) has been categorized as a Variable Customer Account in any prior quarter, as well as (b) any new customer account that (i) is with a customer that has never signed a minimum revenue commitment contract with us for a term of at least 12 months and (ii) meets or exceeds 1% of our revenue in a quarter. Once a customer account is deemed to be a Variable Customer Account in any period, it remains a Variable Customer Account in subsequent periods unless such customer enters into a minimum revenue commitment contract with us for a term of at least 12 months. In the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, we had six and seven Variable Customer Accounts, which represented 9% and 8%, respectively, of our total revenue. Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate. Our ability to drive growth and generate incremental revenue depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and grow our relationships with existing Active Customer Accounts and to increase their use of the platform. An important way in which we track our performance in this area is by measuring the Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate for our Active Customer Accounts, other than our Variable Customer Accounts. Our Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate increases when such Active Customer Accounts increase usage of a product, extend usage of a product to new applications or adopt a new product. Our Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate decreases when such Active Customer Accounts cease or reduce usage of a product or when we lower usage prices on a product. As our customers grow their businesses and extend the use of our platform, they sometimes create multiple customer accounts with us for operational or other reasons. As such, for reporting periods starting with the three months ended December 31, 2016, when we identify a significant customer organization (defined as a single customer organization generating more than 1% of our revenue in a quarterly reporting period) that has created a new Active Customer Account, this new Active Customer Account is tied to, and revenue from this new Active Customer Account is included with, the original Active Customer Account for the purposes of calculating this metric. We believe measuring our Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate on revenue generated from our Active Customer Accounts, other than our Variable Customer Accounts, provides a more meaningful indication of the performance of our efforts to increase revenue from existing customers. Our Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate compares the revenue from Active Customer Accounts, other than Variable Customer Accounts, in a quarter to the same quarter in the prior year. To calculate the Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate, we first identify the cohort of Active Customer Accounts, other than Variable Customer Accounts, that were Active Customer Accounts in the same quarter of the prior year. The Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate is the quotient obtained by dividing the revenue generated from that cohort in a quarter, by the revenue generated from that same cohort in the corresponding quarter in the prior year. When we calculate Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate for periods longer than one quarter, we use the average of the applicable quarterly Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rates for each of the quarters in such period. 27 Table of Contents Key Components of Statements of Operations Revenue. We derive our revenue primarily from usage-based fees earned from customers using the software products within our Engagement Cloud and Programmable Communications Cloud. These usage-based software products include offerings, such as Programmable Voice, Programmable Messaging and Programmable Video. Some examples of the usage-based fees for which we charge include minutes of call duration activity for our Programmable Voice products, number of text messages sent or received using our Programmable Messaging products and number of authentications for our Account Security products. In the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, we generated 84% and 83% of our revenue, respectively, from usage-based fees. We also earn monthly flat fees from certain fee-based products, such as telephone numbers and customer support. Customers typically pay upfront via credit card in monthly prepaid amounts and draw down their balances as they purchase or use our products. As customers grow their usage of our products they automatically receive tiered usage discounts. Our larger customers often enter into contracts, for at least 12 months, that contain minimum revenue commitments, which may contain more favorable pricing. Customers on such contracts typically are invoiced monthly in arrears for products used. Amounts that have been charged via credit card or invoiced are recorded in accounts receivable and in revenue, deferred revenue or customer deposits, depending on whether the revenue recognition criteria have been met. Given that our credit card prepayment amounts tend to be approximately equal to our credit card consumption amounts in each period, and that we do not have many invoiced customers on pre-payment contract terms, our deferred revenue at any particular time is not a meaningful indicator of future revenue. We define U.S. revenue as revenue from customers with IP addresses at the time of registration in the United States, and we define international revenue as revenue from customers with IP addresses at the time of registration outside of the United States. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin. Cost of revenue consists primarily of fees paid to network service providers. Cost of revenue also includes cloud infrastructure fees, personnel costs, such as salaries and stock-based compensation for our customer support employees, and non-personnel costs, such as amortization of capitalized internal use software development costs. Our arrangements with network service providers require us to pay fees based on the volume of phone calls initiated or text messages sent, as well as the number of telephone numbers acquired by us to service our customers. Our arrangements with our cloud infrastructure provider require us to pay fees based on our server capacity consumption. Our gross margin has been and will continue to be affected by a number of factors, including the timing and extent of our investments in our operations, our ability to manage our network service provider and cloud infrastructure-related fees, the mix of U.S. revenue compared to international revenue, the timing of amortization of capitalized software development costs and the extent to which we periodically choose to pass on our cost savings from platform optimization efforts to our customers in the form of lower usage prices. Operating Expenses. The most significant components of operating expenses are personnel costs, which consist of salaries, benefits, bonuses, stock-based compensation and compensation expenses related to stock repurchases from employees. We also incur other non-personnel costs related to our general overhead expenses. We expect that our operating costs will increase in absolute dollars. Research and Development. Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, outsourced engineering services, cloud infrastructure fees for staging and development, amortization of capitalized internal use software development costs and an allocation of our general overhead expenses. We capitalize the portion of our software development costs that meets the criteria for capitalization. We continue to focus our research and development efforts on adding new features and products, including new use cases, improving our platform and increasing the functionality of our existing products. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, including commissions for our sales employees. Sales and marketing expenses also include expenditures related to advertising, marketing, our brand awareness activities and developer evangelism, costs related to our SIGNAL developer conferences, credit card processing fees, professional services fees and an allocation of our general overhead expenses. 28 Table of Contents We focus our sales and marketing efforts on generating awareness of our company, platform and products through our developer evangelist team and self-service model, creating sales leads and establishing and promoting our brand, both domestically and internationally. We plan to continue investing in sales and marketing by increasing our sales and marketing headcount, supplementing our self-service model with an enterprise sales approach, expanding our sales channels, driving our go-to-market strategies, building our brand awareness and sponsoring additional marketing events. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our accounting, finance, legal, human resources and administrative support personnel and executives. General and administrative expenses also include costs related to business acquisitions, legal and other professional services fees, sales and other taxes, depreciation and amortization and an allocation of our general overhead expenses. We expect that we will incur costs associated with supporting the growth of our business and to meet the increased compliance requirements associated with both our international expansion and our transition to, and operation as, a public company. Our general and administrative expenses include a significant amount of sales and other taxes to which we are subject based on the manner we sell and deliver our products. Prior to March 2017, we did not collect such taxes from our customers and recorded such taxes as general and administrative expenses. Effective March 2017, we began collecting these taxes from customers in certain jurisdictions and added more jurisdictions throughout 2017 and in the first quarter of 2018 we began to collect these taxes in one additional jurisdiction. We continue expanding the number of jurisdictions where we will be collecting these taxes in the future. We expect that these expenses will decline in future years as we continue collecting these taxes from our customers in more jurisdictions, which would reduce our rate of ongoing accrual. Provision for Income Taxes. Our income tax provision or benefit for interim periods is determined using an estimate of our annual effective tax rate, adjusted for discrete items occurring in the quarter. The primary difference between our effective tax rate and the federal statutory rate relates to the net operating losses in jurisdictions with a valuation allowance or a zero tax rate. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act). The Tax Act makes broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code including, but not limited to, (1) reducing the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent; (2) requiring companies to pay a one-time transition tax on certain unrepatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries; (3) generally eliminating U.S. federal income taxes on dividends from foreign subsidiaries; (4) requiring a current inclusion in U.S. federal taxable income of certain earnings of controlled foreign corporations; (5) eliminating the corporate alternative minimum tax (AMT) and changing how existing AMT credits can be realized; (6) creating the base erosion anti-abuse tax (BEAT), a new minimum tax; (7) creating a new limitation on deductible interest expense; and (8) changing rules related to uses and limitations of net operating loss carryforwards created in tax years beginning after December 31, 2017. We have not completed our accounting assessment for the effects of the Tax Act as of March 31, 2018; however, based on our initial assessment, we have determined that the Tax Act did not have a material effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2018. Non-GAAP Financial Measures We use the following non-GAAP financial information, collectively, to evaluate our ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes. We believe that non-GAAP financial information, when taken collectively, may be helpful to investors because it provides consistency and comparability with past financial performance, facilitates period-to-period comparisons of results of operations, and assists in comparisons with other companies, many of which use similar non-GAAP financial information to supplement their GAAP results. Non-GAAP financial information is presented for supplemental informational purposes only, and should not be considered a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and may be different from similarly-titled non-GAAP measures used by other companies. Whenever we use a non-GAAP financial measure, a reconciliation is provided to the most closely applicable financial measure stated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Investors are encouraged to review the related GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. Non-GAAP Gross Profit and Non-GAAP Gross Margin. For the periods presented, we define non-GAAP gross profit and non-GAAP gross margin as GAAP gross profit and GAAP gross margin, respectively, adjusted to exclude stock-based compensation and amortization of acquired intangibles. 29 Table of Contents Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 (In thousands) Reconciliation: Gross profit $ 69,534 $ 50,086 Non-GAAP adjustments: Stock-based compensation 222 138 Amortization of acquired intangibles 1,198 997 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 70,954 $ 51,221 Non-GAAP gross margin 55 % 59 % Non-GAAP Operating Expenses. For the periods presented, we define non-GAAP operating expenses (including categories of operating expenses) as GAAP operating expenses (and categories of operating expenses) adjusted to exclude, as applicable, stock-based compensation, amortization of acquired intangibles, acquisition-related expenses, release of tax liability upon obligation settlement, gain on lease termination and payroll taxes related to stock-based compensation. Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 (In thousands) Reconciliation: Operating expenses $ 93,791 $ 64,841 Non-GAAP adjustments: Stock-based compensation (17,318 ) (9,247 ) Amortization of acquired intangibles (262 ) (179 ) Acquisition-related expenses (217 ) Release of tax liability upon obligation settlement 920 Gain on lease termination 295 Payroll taxes related to stock-based compensation (564 ) (1,450 ) Non-GAAP operating expenses $ 75,647 $ 54,963 Non-GAAP Loss from Operations and Non-GAAP Operating Margin. For the periods presented, we define non-GAAP loss from operations and non-GAAP operating margin as GAAP loss from operations and GAAP operating margin, respectively, adjusted to exclude stock-based compensation, amortization of acquired intangibles, acquisition-related expenses, release of tax liability upon obligation settlement, gain on lease termination and payroll taxes related to stock-based compensation. Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 (In thousands) Reconciliation: Loss from operations $ (24,257 ) $ (14,755 ) Non-GAAP adjustments: Stock-based compensation 17,540 9,385 Amortization of acquired intangibles 1,460 1,176 Acquisition-related expenses 217 Release of tax liability upon obligation settlement (920 ) Gain on lease termination (295 ) Payroll taxes related to stock-based compensation 564 1,450 Non-GAAP loss from operations $ (4,693 ) $ (3,742 ) Non-GAAP operating margin (4 )% (4 )% 30 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following tables set forth our results of operations for the periods presented and as a percentage of our total revenue for those periods. The period-to-period comparison of our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected in the future. Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 (In thousands) Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Revenue $ 129,116 $ 87,372 Cost of revenue (1)(2) 59,582 37,286 Gross profit 69,534 50,086 Operating expenses: Research and development (1)(2) 37,576 26,522 Sales and marketing (1)(2) 32,822 21,116 General and administrative (1)(2) 23,393 17,203 Total operating expenses 93,791 64,841 Loss from operations (24,257 ) (14,755 ) Other income (expenses), net 665 498 Loss before (provision) benefit for income taxes (23,592 ) (14,257 ) (Provision) benefit for income taxes (137 ) 30 Net loss attributable to common stockholders $ (23,729 ) $ (14,227 ) (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 (In thousands) Cost of revenue $ 222 $ 138 Research and development 7,872 4,484 Sales and marketing 3,859 1,995 General and administrative 5,587 2,768 Total $ 17,540 $ 9,385 (2) Includes amortization of acquired intangibles as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 (In thousands) Cost of revenue $ 1,198 $ 997 Research and development 22 38 Sales and marketing 220 117 General and administrative 20 24 Total $ 1,460 $ 1,176 31 Table of Contents Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations, as a percentage of revenue:** Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 46 43 Gross profit 54 57 Operating expenses: Research and development 29 30 Sales and marketing 25 24 General and administrative 18 20 Total operating expenses 73 74 Loss from operations (19 ) (17 ) Other income (expenses), net 1 1 Loss before (provision) benefit for income taxes (18 ) (16 ) (Provision) benefit for income taxes * * Net loss attributable to common stockholders (18 )% (16 )% * Less than 0.5% of revenue. ** Columns may not add up to 100% due to rounding. Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 Change (Dollars in thousands) Base Revenue $ 117,507 $ 80,643 $ 36,864 46 % Variable Revenue 11,609 6,729 4,880 73 % Total revenue $ 129,116 $ 87,372 $ 41,744 48 % In the three months ended March 31, 2018, Base Revenue increased by $36.9 million, or 46%, compared to the same period last year, and represented 91% and 92% of total revenue in the months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. This increase was primarily attributable to an increase in the usage of all our products, particularly our Programmable Messaging products and Programmable Voice products, and the adoption of additional products by our existing customers. This increase was partially offset by pricing decreases that we have implemented over time in the form of lower usage prices, in an effort to increase the reach and scale of our platform. The changes in usage and price in the three months ended March 31, 2018 were reflected in our Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate of 132%. The increase in usage was also attributable to a 33% increase in the number of Active Customer Accounts, from 40,696 as of March 31, 2017, to 53,985 as of March 31, 2018. In the three months ended March 31, 2018, Variable Revenue increased by $4.9 million, or 73%, compared to the same period last year, and represented 9% and 8% of total revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. This increase was primarily attributable to the increase in the usage of products by our existing Variable Customer Accounts, partially offset by the decrease in number of Variable Customer Accounts from seven to six. U.S. revenue and international revenue represented $98.6 million, or 76%, and $30.5 million, or 24%, respectively, of total revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to $70.1 million, or 80%, and $17.3 million, or 20%, respectively, of total revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2017. The increase in international revenue was attributable to the growth in usage of our products, particularly our Programmable Messaging products and Programmable 32 Table of Contents Voice products, by our existing international Active Customer Accounts, and a 39% increase in the number of international Active Customer Accounts driven in part by our focus on expanding our sales to customers outside of the United States. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 Change (Dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 59,582 $ 37,286 $ 22,296 60 % Gross margin 54 % 57 % In the three months ended March 31, 2018, cost of revenue increased by $22.3 million, or 60%, compared to the same period last year. The increase in cost of revenue was primarily attributable to a $20.2 million increase in network service providers costs and a $1.3 million increase in cloud infrastructure fees to support the growth in usage of our products. In the three months ended March 31, 2018, gross margin percentage declined primarily as a result of an increasing mix of international product usage and certain price adjustments that were made by us in 2017 as a result of the high volume growth of a large customer. Operating Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 Change (Dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 37,576 $ 26,522 $ 11,054 42 % Sales and marketing 32,822 21,116 11,706 55 % General and administrative 23,393 17,203 6,190 36 % Total operating expenses $ 93,791 $ 64,841 $ 28,950 45 % In the three months ended March 31, 2018, research and development expenses increased by $11.1 million, or 42%, compared to the same period last year. The increase was primarily attributable to a $8.0 million increase in personnel costs, net of a $1.8 million increase in capitalized software development costs, largely as a result of a 31% average increase in our research and development headcount, as we continued to focus on enhancing our existing products and introducing new products, as well as enhancing product management and other technical functions. The increase was also due in part to a $0.8 million increase in cloud infrastructure fees to support the staging and development of our products, a $0.3 million increase in outsourced engineering services and a $0.6 million increase in amortization expense related to our internal-use software and the intangible assets acquired through business combinations. In the three months ended March 31, 2018, sales and marketing expenses increased by $11.7 million, or 55%, compared to the same period last year. The increase was primarily attributable to a $9.0 million increase in personnel costs, largely as a result of a 40% average increase in sales and marketing headcount as we continued to expand our sales efforts in the United States and internationally and a $0.8 million increase in the expenses related to brand awareness programs and events. In the three months ended March 31, 2018, general and administrative expenses increased by $6.2 million, or 36%, compared to the same period last year. The increase was primarily attributable to a $4.0 million increase in personnel costs, largely as a result of a 25% average increase in general and administrative headcount to support the growth of our business domestically and internationally and a $2.0 million increase in professional services fees primarily related to our operations as a public company and our on-going litigation matters. 33 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources To date, our principal sources of liquidity have been the net proceeds of $155.5 million and $64.4 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and offering expenses paid or payable by us, from our initial public offering in June 2016 and our follow-on public offering in October 2016, respectively; the net proceeds we received through private sales of equity securities, as well as the payments received from customers using our products. From our inception through March 31, 2016, we completed several rounds of equity financing through the sale of our convertible preferred stock for total net proceeds of $237.1 million. We believe that our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances, as well as the cash flows generated by our operations will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. However, our belief may prove to be incorrect, and we could utilize our available financial resources sooner than we currently expect. Our future capital requirements and the adequacy of available funds will depend on many factors, including those set forth in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing in order to meet these future capital requirements. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 Cash provided by operating activities $ 16,936 $ 2,440 Cash used in investing activities (20,940 ) (202,018 ) Cash provided by financing activities 6,307 12,342 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 148 11 Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 2,451 $ (187,225 ) Cash Flows from Operating Activities In the three months ended March 31, 2018, cash provided by operating activities consisted primarily of our net loss of $23.7 million adjusted for non-cash items, including $17.5 million of stock-based compensation expense, $5.6 million of depreciation and amortization expense and $16.9 million of cumulative changes in operating assets and liabilities. With respect to changes in operating assets and liabilities, accounts payable and other current liabilities increased $29.5 million primarily due to increases in transaction volumes. Deferred revenue decreased $6.3 million primarily due to a $7.4 million reclassification of customer deposits caused by the implementation of the new accounting guidance for revenue, as described in Note 2 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This decrease was partially offset by increases due to transaction volumes and timing of customer prepayments receipts. Accounts receivable and prepaid expenses increased $12.1 million, which resulted primarily from the timing of cash receipts from certain of our larger customers, pre-payments for cloud infrastructure fees and certain operating expenses. Cash Flows from Investing Activities In the three months ended March 31, 2018, cash used in investing activities was $20.9 million primarily consisting of $15.1 million of purchases of marketable securities, net of maturities, and $4.8 million related to capitalized software development costs. Cash Flows from Financing Activities In the three months ended March 31, 2018, cash provided by financing activities was $6.3 million primarily consisting of the proceeds from stock options exercised by our employees. 34 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. We believe that the assumptions and estimates associated with revenue recognition, capitalization of our internal-use software development costs and accruals and contingencies have the greatest potential impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. Therefore, we consider these to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. Effective January 1, 2018, we adopted Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers , which replaced the existing revenue recognition guidance, ASC 605, and outlines a single set of comprehensive principles for recognizing revenue under U.S. GAAP. Among other things, ASC 606 requires entities to assess the products or services promised in contracts with customers at contract inception to determine the appropriate unit at which to record revenue, which is referred to as a performance obligation. Revenue is recognized when control of the promised products or services is transferred to customers at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those products or services. We adopted ASC 606 using the modified retrospective method with cumulative catch-up adjustment to the opening retained earnings as of January 1, 2018. Results for reporting periods beginning after December 31, 2017 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historical accounting policies prior to adoption. In adopting the standard, we elected to apply the new guidance only to those contracts which were not completed as of the date of the adoption. The impact of adopting the new standard on our consolidated financial statements was insignificant. We recorded a net cumulative catch-up adjustment to the beginning retained earnings as of January 1, 2018, of $0.7 million. The primary impact relates to the deferral of incremental commission costs of obtaining new contracts. Under ASC 605, we deferred only direct and incremental commission costs to obtain a contract and amortized those costs on a straight-line basis over the term of the related subscription contract. Under the new standard, we defer all incremental commission costs to obtain the contract and amortize these costs on a straight-line basis over the term of benefit of the underlying asset, which was determined to be five years. The impact on our revenue recognition policies was insignificant. Prior to the adoption of ASC 606, we recognized the majority of our revenue according to the usage by our customers in the period in which that usage occurred. ASC 606 continues to support the recognition of revenue over time, and on a usage basis, for the majority of our contracts due to continuous transfer of control to the customer. The impact on the Companys balance sheet presentation includes presenting customer refundable prepayments as customer deposit liabilities, whereas under ASC 605 these were included in deferred revenues. There was not a significant tax impact to our consolidated statements of operations and consolidated balance sheet relating to the adoption of the new standard as there is a full valuation allowance due to our history of continued losses. Other than adoption of ASC 606, there have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K. Recently Issued Accounting Guidance See Note 2 of the notes to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a summary of recently issued and not yet adopted accounting pronouncements. 35 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have not entered into any off-balance sheet arrangements and do not have any holdings in variable interest entities. Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments Our principal commitments consist of obligations under our operating leases for office space and contractual commitments to our cloud infrastructure and network service providers. In the three months ended March 31, 2018, we entered into a 22 month non-cancellable agreement with a cloud services vendor for a total commitment of $4.5 million. Except for this new commitment, there have been no material changes to our principle commitments described in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K.