Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. In addition to historical financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that are based upon current plans, expectations and beliefs that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth under Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Our fiscal year ends on December 31. Overview We are the leader in the Cloud Communications Platform category. We enable developers to build, scale and operate real-time communications within their software applications via our simple-to-use Application Programming Interfaces (APIs). The power, flexibility, and reliability offered by our software building blocks empowers companies of virtually every shape and size to build world-class engagement into their customer experience. We offer a Customer Engagement Platform with software designed to address specific use cases like account security and contact centers and a set of APIs that handles the higher level communication logic needed for nearly every type of customer engagement. These APIs are focused on the business challenges that a developer is looking to address, allowing our customers to more quickly and easily build better ways to engage with their customers throughout their journey. We also offer a set of APIs that enables developers to embed voice, messaging, video and email capabilities into their applications and are designed to support almost all the fundamental ways humans communicate, unlocking innovators to address just about any communication market. The Super Network is our software layer that allows our customers software to communicate with connected devices globally. It interconnects with communications networks and inbox service providers around the world and continually analyzes data to optimize the quality and cost of communications that flow through our platform. The Super Network also contains a set of APIs that gives our customers access to more foundational components of our platform, like phone numbers. Our customers applications are able to reach users via voice, messaging, video and email in nearly every country in the world by utilizing our platform. We support our global business through over 25 cloud data centers across more than seven regions around the world and have developed contractual relationships with network service providers globally. Our business model is primarily focused on reaching and serving the needs of software developers, who we believe are becoming increasingly influential in technology decisions in a wide variety of companies. We call this approach our Business Model for Innovators, which empowers developers by reducing friction and upfront costs, encouraging experimentation, and enabling developers to grow as customers as their ideas succeed. We established and maintain our leadership position by engaging directly with, and cultivating, our developer community, which has led to the rapid adoption of our platform. We reach developers through community events and conferences, including our SIGNAL customer and developer conferences, to demonstrate how every developer can create differentiated applications incorporating communications using our products. Once developers are introduced to our platform, we provide them with a low friction trial experience. By accessing our easy-to-adopt APIs, extensive self-service documentation and customer support team, developers build our products into their applications and then test such applications through free trial periods that we provide. Once they have decided to use our products beyond the initial free trial period, customers provide their credit card information and only pay for the actual usage of our products. Historically, we have acquired the substantial majority of our customers through this self-service model. As customers expand their usage of our platform, our relationships with them often evolve to include business leaders within their organizations. Once our customers reach a certain spending level with us, we support them with account executives or customer success advocates within our sales organization to ensure their satisfaction and expand their usage of our products. We also supplement our self-service model with a sales effort aimed at engaging larger potential customers, strategic leads and existing customers through a direct sales approach. To help increase awareness of our products in the enterprise, we have expanded our marketing efforts through programs like our Twilio Engage roadshow where we seek to bring business leaders and developers together to discuss the future of customer engagement. We have developed products to support this effort as well, like the Twilio Enterprise Plan, which provides capabilities for advanced security, access management and granular administration. Our sales organization targets technical leaders and business leaders who are seeking to leverage software to drive competitive differentiation. As we educate these leaders on the benefits of developing applications incorporating our products to differentiate their business, they often consult with their developers regarding implementation. We believe that developers are often advocates for our products as a result of our developer-focused approach. Our sales organization includes sales development, inside sales, field sales and sales engineering personnel. 28 Table of Contents When potential customers do not have the available developer resources to build their own applications, we refer them to either our technology partners who embed our products in the solutions that they sell to other businesses (such as contact centers and sales force and marketing automation) or our consulting partners who provide consulting and development services for organizations that have limited software development expertise to build our platform into their software applications. We generate the substantial majority of our revenue from customers based on their usage of our software products that they have incorporated into their applications. Our Flex contact center platform is generally offered on a per user, per month basis or on a usage basis per agent hour. In addition, our email API is offered on a monthly subscription basis and our Marketing Campaigns product is priced based on the number of email contacts stored on our platform and the number of monthly emails sent to those contacts through our Email API. Also, customers using our Programmable Messaging or Programmable Voice APIs typically purchase one or more telephone numbers from us, for which we charge a monthly flat fee per number. Some customers also choose to purchase various levels of premium customer support for a monthly fee. Customers that register in our self-service model typically pay upfront via credit card and draw down their balance as they purchase or use our products. Most of our customers draw down their balance in the same month they pay up front or are charged on a monthly subscription basis for our email-related products. As a result, our deferred revenue and customer deposits liability at any particular time is not a meaningful indicator of future revenue. As our customers usage grows, some of our customers enter into contracts and are invoiced monthly in arrears. Many of these customer contracts have terms of 12 months and typically include some level of minimum revenue commitment. Most customers with minimum revenue commitment contracts generate a significant amount of revenue in excess of their minimum revenue commitment in any period. Historically, the aggregate minimum commitment revenue from customers with whom we have contracts has constituted a minority of our revenue in any period, and we expect this to continue in the future. Our developer-focused products are delivered to customers and users through our Super Network, which uses software to optimize communications on our platform. We interconnect with communications networks and inbox service providers globally to deliver our products, and therefore we have arrangements with network service providers in many regions in the world. Historically, a substantial majority of our cost of revenue has been network service provider fees. We continue to optimize our network service provider coverage and connectivity through continuous improvements in routing and sourcing in order to lower the usage expenses we incur for network service provider fees. As we benefit from our platform optimization efforts, we sometimes pass these savings on to customers in the form of lower usage prices on our products in an effort to drive increased usage and expand the reach and scale of our platform. In the near term, we intend to operate our business to expand the reach and scale of our platform and to grow our revenue, rather than to maximize our gross margins. We have achieved significant growth in recent periods. In the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, our revenue was $364.9 million and $233.1 million, respectively, and our net loss was $94.8 million and $36.5 million, respectively. In the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, our 10 largest Active Customer Accounts generated an aggregate of 15% and 14%, respectively, of our total revenue. COVID-19 UPDATE A novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19) first identified in China in late 2019 has spread globally and resulted in the imposition of numerous unprecedented measures to try to contain the virus, including travel bans and restrictions, shutdowns, quarantines, shelter-in-place and social distancing orders. To prioritize the health and safety of our employees, customers and our community at large, we have postponed SIGNAL, our annual developer and customer conference, to September 2020 and have either cancelled or shifted other planned events through June 30, 2020, to virtual-only experiences and may determine to alter, postpone or cancel additional customer, employee or industry events in the future. Since mid-March, we have also taken several precautionary measures to protect our employees and contingent workers and help minimize the spread of the virus including temporarily closing our worldwide offices and requiring all employees and contingent workers to work from home and suspending all business travel worldwide for our employees. The broader implications of COVID-19 on our results of operations and overall financial performance remain uncertain. The COVID-19 pandemic and its adverse effects have become more prevalent in the locations where we, our customers, suppliers or third-party business partners conduct business. In the three months ended March 31, 2020, we witnessed declines in usage of our platform from customers in industries including, travel, hospitality and ridesharing. However, we also experienced increased usage in other areas, including healthcare, education, entertainment and media. We acknowledge that there may be additional impacts to the economy and our business as a result of COVID-19. We expect that there may be some volatility in customer demand and buying habits as the pandemic continues and we may experience constrained supply or curtailed customer demand that could materially adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial performance in future periods. Specifically, we may experience impact from delayed sales cycles, including customers and prospective customers delaying contract signing or contract renewals, or reducing budgets or minimum commitments related to the products and 29 Table of Contents services that we offer and changes to consumer behavior that may affect customers who use our products and service for confirmations, notifications, and other use cases. While we are continuing our recruiting efforts, it is possible that the pace of our hiring may slow during the pendency of the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, to prepare for potential surges in demand, we have in the past, and may during the pendency of the COVID-19 pandemic, incur additional costs and make additional investments in order to meet the demands of increased customer usage of our products and services and to expand the capacity of our global infrastructure. If there is increased customer demand and increased usage of our products and services, our cost of revenue may increase and our gross margins may be negatively impacted. See Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors for further discussion of the possible impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Key Business Metrics Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 Number of Active Customer Accounts (as of end date of period) (1) 190,000 154,797 Total revenue (in thousands) (1) $ 364,868 $ 233,139 Total Revenue Growth Rate (1) 57 % 81 % Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate (2) 143 % 142 % ____________________ (1) Includes the contribution from our Twilio SendGrid business, acquired on February 1, 2019. Effective December 31, 2019, we round down the number of Active Customer Accounts to the nearest thousand. (2) As previously announced in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 2, 2020, commencing with the three-month period ended March 31, 2020, we calculate our Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate by comparing total revenue from a cohort of Active Customer Accounts in a period to the same period in the prior year (the "New DBNE Definition"). To facilitate comparison between the periods presented, Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate as presented in the table above has been calculated as if the New DBNE Definition had been in effect during that period. As a result of the New DBNE Definition, unless specifically identified as being calculated using total revenue, any Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rates disclosed by our Company in SEC filings, press releases and presentations prior to the date of this Quarterly Report will not be directly comparable to our Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rates going forward. Number of Active Customer Accounts. We believe that the number of Active Customer Accounts is an important indicator of the growth of our business, the market acceptance of our platform and future revenue trends. We define an Active Customer Account at the end of any period as an individual account, as identified by a unique account identifier, for which we have recognized at least $5 of revenue in the last month of the period. We believe that use of our platform by customers at or above the $5 per month threshold is a stronger indicator of potential future engagement than trial usage of our platform or usage at levels below $5 per month. A single organization may constitute multiple unique Active Customer Accounts if it has multiple account identifiers, each of which is treated as a separate Active Customer Account. Effective December 31, 2019, we round down the number of Active Customer Accounts to the nearest thousand. In the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, revenue from Active Customer Accounts represented over 99% of total revenue in each period. Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate. Our ability to drive growth and generate incremental revenue depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and grow our relationships with existing Active Customer Accounts and to increase their use of the platform. An important way in which we have historically tracked performance in this area is by measuring the Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate for Active Customer Accounts. Our Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate increases when such Active Customer Accounts increase their usage of a product, extend their usage of a product to new applications or adopt a new product. Our Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate decreases when such Active Customer Accounts cease or reduce their usage of a product or when we lower usage prices on a product. As our customers grow their businesses and extend the use of our platform, they sometimes create multiple customer accounts with us for operational or other reasons. As such, for reporting periods starting with the three months ended December 31, 2016, when we identify a significant customer organization (defined as a single customer organization generating more than 1% of revenue in a quarterly reporting period) that has created a new Active Customer Account, this new Active Customer Account is tied to, and revenue from this new Active Customer Account is included with, the original Active Customer Account for the purposes of calculating this metric. We believe that measuring Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate provides a more meaningful indication of the performance of our efforts to increase revenue from existing customers. 30 Table of Contents For historical periods through December 31, 2019, our Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate compared the revenue from Active Customer Accounts, other than large Active Customer Accounts that have never entered into 12-month minimum revenue commitment contracts with us, in a quarter to the same quarter in the prior year. For reporting periods starting with the three months ended March 31, 2020, our Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate compares the total revenue from all Active Customer Accounts in a quarter to the same quarter in the prior year. To calculate the Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate, we first identify the cohort of Active Customer Accounts that were Active Customer Accounts in the same quarter of the prior year. The Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate is the quotient obtained by dividing the revenue generated from that cohort in a quarter, by the revenue generated from that same cohort in the corresponding quarter in the prior year. When we calculate Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate for periods longer than one quarter, we use the average of the applicable quarterly Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rates for each of the quarters in such period. As a result of the change in calculation of Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate, unless specifically identified as being calculated based on total revenue, any Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rates disclosed by our Company in SEC filings, press releases and presentations prior to the date of this Quarterly Report will not be directly comparable to our Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rates going forward. The table below sets forth our historical Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rates as calculated pursuant to total revenue. Three Months Ended Dec 31, 2019 Sep 30, 2019 Jun 30, 2019 Mar 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Sep 30, 2018 Jun 30, 2018 Mar 31, 2018 125 % 132 % 141 % 142 % 150 % 147 % 138 % 138 % Three Months Ended Dec 31, 2017 Sep 30, 2017 Jun 30, 2017 Mar 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Sep 30, 2016 Jun 30, 2016 123 % 125 % 132 % 128 % 141 % 140 % 148 % Key Components of Statements of Operations Revenue. We derive our revenue primarily from usage-based fees earned from customers using the software products within our Solutions APIs and Channel APIs. These usage-based software products include offerings, such as Programmable Voice, Programmable Messaging and Programmable Video. Some examples of the usage-based fees for which we charge include minutes of call duration activity for our Programmable Voice products, number of text messages sent or received using our Programmable Messaging products and number of authentications for our Account Security products. In the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, we generated 74% and 76% of our revenue, respectively, from usage-based fees. We also earn monthly flat fees from certain fee-based products, such as our Email API, Marketing Campaigns, Flex seats, telephone numbers, short codes and customer support. When customers first begin using our platform, they typically pay upfront via credit card in monthly prepaid amounts and draw down their balances as they purchase or use our products. As customers grow their usage of our products, they automatically receive tiered usage discounts. Our larger customers often enter into contracts, for at least 12 months that contain minimum revenue commitments, which may contain more favorable pricing. Customers on such contracts typically are invoiced monthly in arrears for products used. Amounts that have been charged via credit card or invoiced are recorded in accounts receivable and in revenue, deferred revenue or customer deposits, depending on whether the revenue recognition criteria have been met. Our deferred revenue and customer deposits liability balance is not a meaningful indicator of our future revenue at any point in time because very few of our contracts with invoiced customers contain terms requiring any form of prepayment. We define U.S. revenue as revenue from customers with IP addresses or mailing addresses at the time of registration in the United States, and we define international revenue as revenue from customers with IP addresses or mailing addresses at the time of registration outside of the United States. 31 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin. Cost of revenue consists primarily of fees paid to network service providers. Cost of revenue also includes cloud infrastructure fees, direct costs of personnel, such as salaries and stock-based compensation for our customer support employees, and non-personnel costs, such as depreciation and amortization expense related to data centers and hosting equipment, amortization of capitalized internal use software development costs and acquired intangibles. Our arrangements with network service providers require us to pay fees based on the volume of phone calls initiated or text messages sent, as well as the number of telephone numbers acquired by us to service our customers. Our arrangements with our cloud infrastructure provider require us to pay fees based on our server capacity consumption. Our gross margin has been and will continue to be affected by a number of factors, including the timing and extent of our investments in our operations, our product mix, our ability to manage our network service provider and cloud infrastructure-related fees, including Application to Person SMS fees, the mix of U.S. revenue compared to international revenue, changes in foreign exchange rates and the timing of amortization of capitalized software development costs and acquired intangibles and the extent to which we periodically choose to pass on our cost savings from platform optimization efforts to our customers in the form of lower usage prices. Operating Expenses. The most significant components of operating expenses are personnel costs, which consist of salaries, benefits, sales commissions and bonuses and stock-based compensation. We also incur other non-personnel costs related to our general overhead expenses. We expect that our operating costs will increase in absolute dollars as we add additional employees and invest in our infrastructure to grow our business. Research and Development. Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, outsourced engineering services, cloud infrastructure fees for staging and development, amortization of capitalized internal use software development costs, depreciation and an allocation of our general overhead expenses. We capitalize the portion of our software development costs that meets the criteria for capitalization. We continue to focus our research and development efforts on adding new features and products, including new use cases, improving our platform and increasing the functionality of our existing products. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, including commissions for our sales employees. Sales and marketing expenses also include expenditures related to advertising, marketing, our brand awareness activities and developer evangelism, costs related to our SIGNAL customer and developer conferences, credit card processing fees, professional services fees, depreciation, amortization of acquired intangibles and an allocation of our general overhead expenses. We focus our sales and marketing efforts on generating awareness of our company, platform and products through our developer evangelist team and self-service model, creating sales leads and establishing and promoting our brand, both domestically and internationally. We plan to continue investing in sales and marketing by increasing our sales and marketing headcount, supplementing our self-service model with an enterprise sales approach, expanding our sales channels, driving our go-to-market strategies, building our brand awareness and sponsoring additional marketing events. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our accounting, finance, legal, human resources and administrative support personnel and executives. General and administrative expenses also include costs related to business acquisitions, legal and other professional services fees, certain taxes, depreciation and amortization and an allocation of our general overhead expenses. We expect that we will incur costs associated with supporting the growth of our business and to meet the increased compliance requirements associated with our international expansion. We may also incur higher than usual losses related to deterioration of quality of certain financial assets caused by the macroeconomic conditions and uncertainly in the COVID-19 environment. Our general and administrative expenses include a certain amount of sales and other taxes to which we are subject based on the manner we sell and deliver our products. Prior to March 2017, we did not collect sales or other taxes from our customers and recorded such taxes as general and administrative expenses. Effective March 2017, we began collecting most of these taxes from customers in certain jurisdictions and since then we have expanded to most jurisdictions where these taxes are now being collected. We continue expanding the number of jurisdictions where we will be collecting these taxes in the future. We expect that these expenses will continue to decline in future years as we continue collecting these taxes from our customers in additional jurisdictions, which would further reduce our rate of ongoing accrual. Provision for Income Taxes. The provision for income taxes consists primarily of income taxes and withholding taxes in foreign jurisdictions in which the Company conducts business. The Company's U.S. operations have been in a loss position and the Company maintains a full valuation allowance against its U.S. deferred tax assets. 32 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Financial Measures We use the following non-GAAP financial information, collectively, to evaluate our ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes. We believe that non-GAAP financial information, when taken collectively, may be helpful to investors because it provides consistency and comparability with past financial performance, facilitates period-to-period comparisons of results of operations, and assists in comparisons with other companies, many of which use similar non-GAAP financial information to supplement their GAAP results. Non-GAAP financial information is presented for supplemental informational purposes only, should not be considered a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and may be different from similarly-titled non-GAAP measures used by other companies. Whenever we use a non-GAAP financial measure, a reconciliation is provided to the most closely applicable financial measure stated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Investors are encouraged to review the related GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. Non-GAAP Gross Profit and Non-GAAP Gross Margin. For the periods presented, we define nonGAAP gross profit and non-GAAP gross margin as GAAP gross profit and GAAP gross margin, respectively, adjusted to exclude, as applicable, certain expenses as presented in the table below: Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 Reconciliation: (In thousands) Gross profit $ 193,535 $ 126,050 Non-GAAP adjustments: Stock-based compensation 1,837 1,809 Amortization of acquired intangibles 12,381 8,460 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 207,753 $ 136,319 Non-GAAP gross margin 57 % 58 % Non-GAAP Operating Expenses . For the periods presented, we define non-GAAP operating expenses (including categories of operating expenses) as GAAP operating expenses (and categories of operating expenses) adjusted to exclude, as applicable, certain expenses as presented in the table below: Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 Reconciliation: (In thousands) Operating expenses $ 286,231 $ 213,638 Non-GAAP adjustments: Stock-based compensation (67,188) (56,515) Amortization of acquired intangibles (7,911) (5,156) Acquisition-related expenses (302) (12,543) Charitable contributions (2,701) Payroll taxes related to stock-based compensation (6,453) (6,468) Non-GAAP operating expenses $ 201,676 $ 132,956 33 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Income from Operations and Non-GAAP Operating Margin . For the periods presented, we define non-GAAP income from operations and non-GAAP operating margin as GAAP loss from operations and GAAP operating margin, respectively, adjusted to exclude, as applicable, certain expenses as presented in the table below: Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 Reconciliation: (In thousands) Loss from operations $ (92,696) $ (87,588) Non-GAAP adjustments: Stock-based compensation 69,025 58,324 Amortization of acquired intangibles 20,292 13,616 Acquisition-related expenses 302 12,543 Charitable contributions 2,701 Payroll taxes related to stock-based compensation 6,453 6,468 Non-GAAP income from operations $ 6,077 $ 3,363 Non-GAAP operating margin 2 % 1 % 34 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following tables set forth our results of operations for the periods presented and as a percentage of our total revenue for those periods. We have included our Twilio SendGrid business in our results of operations prospectively after February 1, 2019, the closing date of the acquisition. The period-to-period comparison of our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected in the future. Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: (In thousands) Revenue $ 364,868 $ 233,139 Cost of revenue (1) (2) 171,333 107,089 Gross profit 193,535 126,050 Operating expenses: Research and development (1) (2) 114,339 77,855 Sales and marketing (1) (2) 116,722 71,607 General and administrative (1) (2) 55,170 64,176 Total operating expenses 286,231 213,638 Loss from operations (92,696) (87,588) Other expenses, net (1,118) (636) Loss before (provision) benefit for income taxes (93,814) (88,224) (Provision) benefit for income taxes (977) 51,721 Net loss attributable to common stockholders $ (94,791) $ (36,503) ____________________ (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 (In thousands) Cost of revenue $ 1,837 $ 1,809 Research and development 33,209 25,339 Sales and marketing 19,943 11,749 General and administrative 14,036 19,427 Total $ 69,025 $ 58,324 (2) Includes amortization of acquired intangibles as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 (In thousands) Cost of revenue $ 12,381 $ 8,460 Sales and marketing 7,864 5,003 General and administrative 47 153 Total $ 20,292 $ 13,616 35 Table of Contents Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations, as a percentage of revenue: ** Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 47 46 Gross profit 53 54 Operating expenses: Research and development 31 33 Sales and marketing 32 31 General and administrative 15 28 Total operating expenses 78 92 Loss from operations (25) (38) Other expenses, net * * Loss before (provision) benefit for income taxes (26) (38) (Provision) benefit for income taxes * 22 Net loss attributable to common stockholders (26 %) (16 %) ___________________ * Less than 0.5% of revenue. ** Columns may not add up to 100% due to rounding. Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 Change (Dollars in thousands) Total Revenue $ 364,868 $ 233,139 $ 131,729 57 % In the three months ended March 31, 2020, the total revenue increased by $131.7 million, or 57%, compared to the same period last year. This increase was primarily attributable to an increase in the usage of our products, particularly our Programmable Messaging products and Programmable Voice products, and the adoption of additional products by our existing customers. In addition, the current period includes a full three months of revenue from our Twilio SendGrid business, while the prior period included that business only for the period from February 1, 2019, (the acquisition closing date) through March 31, 2019. The increase in usage was also attributable to a 23% increase in the number of Active Customer Accounts, from 154,797 as of March 31, 2019, to over 190,000 as of March 31, 2020, which was also benefited from the customer accounts added as a result of our acquisition of our Twilio SendGrid business. These increases were partially offset by pricing decreases that we have implemented over time in the form of lower usage prices, in an effort to increase the reach and scale of our platform. The changes in usage and prices in 2020 were reflected in our Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate of 143% for the three months ended March 31, 2020. In the three months ended March 31, 2020, U.S. revenue and international revenue represented $261.8 million, or 72%, and $103.1 million, or 28%, respectively, of total revenue. In the three months ended March 31, 2019, U.S. revenue and international revenue represented $166.6 million, or 71%, and $66.6 million, or 29%, respectively, of total revenue. The increase in international revenue was attributable to the growth in usage of our products, particularly our Programmable Messaging products and Programmable Voice products, by our existing international Active Customer Accounts; a 24% increase in the number of international Active Customer Accounts driven in part by our focus on expanding our sales to customers outside of the United States; and the revenue contribution from our Twilio SendGrid business after the acquisition closing date. 36 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 Change (Dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 171,333 $ 107,089 $ 64,244 60 % Gross margin 53 % 54 % In the three months ended March 31, 2020, cost of revenue increased by $64.2 million, or 60%, compared to the same period last year. The increase in cost of revenue was primarily attributable to a $47.4 million increase in network service providers costs and a $5.0 million increase in cloud infrastructure fees, both to support the growth in usage of our products. The increase was also due to a $3.9 million increase in amortization expense related to the intangible assets that we acquired through our various business combinations. The current period includes a full three months of cost of revenue from our Twilio SendGrid business, while the prior period included that business only for the period from February 1, 2019, (the acquisition closing date) through March 31, 2019. In the three months ended March 31, 2020, gross margin percentage slightly declined compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019. Changes in product mix, which includes the impact of our Twilio SendGrid business, and some operational improvements were largely offset by an increase in amortization expense related to acquired intangible assets, the impact of an increasing mix of international product usage, and an increase in network service provider fees in certain geographies. Operating Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 Change (Dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 114,339 $ 77,855 $ 36,484 47 % Sales and marketing 116,722 71,607 45,115 63 % General and administrative 55,170 64,176 (9,006) (14) % Total operating expenses $ 286,231 $ 213,638 $ 72,593 34 % The current period includes a full three month of operating expenses from our Twilio SendGrid business, while the prior period included that business only for the period from February 1, 2019 (the acquisition closing date) through March 31, 2019. In the three months ended March 31, 2020, research and development expenses increased by $36.5 million, or 47%, compared to the same period last year. The increase was primarily attributable to a $32.8 million increase in personnel costs, net of a $5.3 million increase in capitalized software development costs, largely as a result of a 62% average increase in our research and development headcount, as we continued to focus on enhancing our existing products, introducing new products as well as enhancing product management and other technical functions. This increase also reflected the impact of growth in the headcount as a result of the acquisition of our Twilio SendGrid business. The increase was also due to a $3.6 million increase in facilities and depreciation expenses to accommodate the growth in our headcount. In the three months ended March 31, 2020, sales and marketing expenses increased by $45.1 million, or 63%, compared to the same period last year. The increase was primarily attributable to a $30.0 million increase in personnel costs, largely as a result of an 83% average increase in sales and marketing headcount, as we continued to expand our sales efforts in the United States and internationally. The increase also reflected the impact of growth in the headcount as a result of the acquisition of our Twilio SendGrid business. The increase was also due to a $3.7 million increase in advertising expenses, a $2.9 million increase related to the amortization of acquired intangible assets and a $1.5 million increase in facilities and related expenses. In the three months ended March 31, 2020, general and administrative expenses decreased by $9.0 million, or 14%, compared to the same period last year. The decrease was primarily due to a $12.2 million decrease in professional expenses related to our acquisitions of other businesses and a $5.4 million decrease in stock based compensation expense related to certain one-time expenses incurred in 2019 as a result of our business combination with SendGrid. These decreases were 37 Table of Contents partially offset by a $3.9 million increase in personnel costs, largely as a result of a 48% average increase in general and administrative headcount, to support the growth of our business domestically and internationally. This increase also reflected the impact of growth in the headcount as a result of the acquisition of our Twilio SendGrid business. Additionally, our allowance for credit losses increased by $4.2 million partially in response to the macroeconomic effects and uncertainty imposed by the COVID-19 environment and our charitable contributions increased by $2.7 million due to a donation by Twilio.org of shares of our Class A common stock to charity. Liquidity and Capital Resources To date, our principal sources of liquidity have been (i) the net proceeds of $155.5 million, $64.4 million, and $979.0 million, net of underwriting discounts and offering expenses, from our initial public offering in June 2016 and our subsequent public offerings in October 2016 and June 2019, respectively; (ii) the net proceeds we received through private sales of equity securities; (iii) the net proceeds of approximately $537.0 million, after deducting purchaser discounts and debt issuance costs paid by us, from issuance of the 0.25% convertible senior notes due 2023 (the "Notes"), as described in Note 8 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q; and (iv) the payments received from customers using our products. We believe that our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances, as well as the cash flows generated by our operations will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. However, our belief may prove to be incorrect, and we could utilize our available financial resources sooner than we currently expect. Our future capital requirements and the adequacy of available funds will depend on many factors, including those set forth in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing in order to meet these future capital requirements. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Additionally, cash from operations could also be affected by various risks and uncertainties in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic, including timing and ability to collect payments from our customers and other risks detailed in Part II, Item 1A, "Risk Factors". Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 (In thousands) Cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 15,535 $ (9,113) Cash provided by (used) in investing activities 71,645 (130,201) Cash provided by financing activities 4,603 12,811 Net increase (decrease) increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 91,783 $ (126,503) Cash Flows from Operating Activities In the three months ended March 31, 2020, cash provided by operating activities consisted primarily of our net loss of $94.8 million adjusted for non-cash items, including $69.0 million of stock-based compensation expense, $32.2 million of depreciation and amortization expense, $8.0 million of reduction in our operating right-of-use assets, $6.2 million in amortization of debt discount and issuance costs, a $4.2 million increase in allowance for credit losses and $16.2 million of cumulative changes in operating assets and liabilities. With respect to changes in operating assets and liabilities, accounts receivable and prepaid expenses increased $31.3 million primarily due to the timing of cash receipts from our customers, pre-payments for cloud infrastructure fees and certain operating expenses. Accounts payable and other current liabilities increased $24.0 million primarily due to increases in transaction volumes. Our operating right-of-use liability decreased $7.0 million due to payments made against our operating lease obligations. Our long-term assets increased $5.8 million due to an increase in the sales commissions balances related to the growth of our business. In the three months ended March 31, 2019, cash used in operating activities consisted primarily of our net loss of $36.5 million adjusted for non-cash items, including $58.3 million of stock-based compensation expense, $51.6 million of tax benefit related to our business combination with SendGrid, $21.2 million of depreciation and amortization expense, $5.8 million 38 Table of Contents amortization of the debt discount and issuance costs related to our Notes and $10.8 million of cumulative changes in operating assets and liabilities. With respect to changes in operating assets and liabilities, accounts payable and other current liabilities increased $5.5 million primarily due to increases in transaction volumes. Deferred revenue and customer deposits increased $0.4 million due to increases in transaction volumes and timing of customer prepayments. Accounts receivable and prepaid expenses increased $9.7 million primarily due to the timing of cash receipts from certain of our larger customers, pre-payments for cloud infrastructure fees and certain operating expenses. Cash Flows from Investing Activities In the three months ended March 31, 2020, cash provided by investing activities was $71.6 million primarily consisting of $89.0 million of maturities and sales of marketable securities and other investments, net of purchases, $8.6 million related to capitalized software development costs and $6.3 million related to purchases of long-lived assets. In the three months ended March 31, 2019, cash used in investing activities was $130.2 million primarily consisting of $279.0 million of purchases of marketable securities, net of maturities and sales, $156.8 million of cash acquired in our business combination with SendGrid, $5.4 million related to capitalized software development costs and $2.7 million in purchases of property and equipment. Cash Flows from Financing Activities In the three months ended March 31, 2020, cash provided by financing activities was $4.6 million primarily consisting of $8.2 million proceeds from stock options exercised by our employees. This was offset by $2.0 million in principal payments on financing leases and $1.7 million related to the value of equity awards withheld to settle tax liabilities. In the three months ended March 31, 2019, cash provided by financing activities was $12.8 million primarily consisting of $15.3 million proceeds from stock options exercised by our employees. This was offset by $1.5 million in principal payments on financing leases and notes payable and $1.1 million related to the value of equity awards withheld to settle tax liabilities. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America. The preparation of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. We believe that the accounting policies, assumptions and estimates associated with revenue recognition and business combinations have the greatest potential impact on our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Therefore, we consider these to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services. We enter into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations. Revenue is recognized net of allowances for credits and any taxes collected from customers, which are subsequently remitted to governmental authorities. Our revenue is primarily derived from usage-based fees earned from customers accessing our enterprise cloud computing services. Platform access is considered a monthly series comprising one performance obligation and usage-based fees are recognized as revenue in the period in which the usage occurs. Subscription-based fees are derived from certain non-usage-based contracts, such as with the sales of short codes and customer support. Non-usage-based contracts revenue is recognized on a ratable basis over the contractual term which is generally one year or less. Our arrangements do not contain general rights of return. However, credits may be issued on a case-by-case basis. Credits are accounted for as variable consideration, are estimated based on historical trends and are recorded against revenue. 39 Table of Contents The contracts do not provide customers with the right to take possession of the software supporting the applications. Amounts that have been invoiced are recorded in accounts receivable and in revenue or deferred revenue depending on whether the revenue recognition criteria have been met. Business Combinations Accounting for business combinations requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially at the acquisition date with respect to tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed. We use our best estimates and assumptions to accurately assign fair value to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date as well as the useful lives of those acquired intangible assets. Examples of critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets and goodwill we have acquired include but are not limited to future expected cash flows from acquired developed technologies; the acquired companys trade name and existing customer relationships, as well as assumptions about the period of time the acquired trade name will continue to be used in our offerings; uncertain tax positions and tax related valuation allowances assumed; and discount rates. Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur that may affect the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates or actual results. Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted Refer to Note 2 to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements not yet adopted. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have not entered into any off-balance sheet arrangements and do not have any holdings in variable interest entities. Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments Our principal commitments consist of obligations under our Notes, our operating leases for office space and our contractual commitments to our cloud infrastructure and network service providers. In the three months ended March 31, 2020, the Company entered into several non-cancelable vendor agreements with terms up to two years for a total purchase commitment of $ 16.8 million. Available Information The following filings are available through our investor relations website after we file them with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"): Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and our Proxy Statement for our annual meeting of stockholders. These filings are also available for download free of charge on our investor relations website. Our investor relations website is located at http://investors.twilio.com. The SEC also maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy statements and other information about issuers, like us, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that website is www.sec.gov. We webcast our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community on our investor relations website. Additionally, we provide notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases and blogs as part of our investor relations website. We also use our Twitter Account (https://twitter.com/twilio) and the Twitter account of our Chief Executive Officer, Jeff Lawson (https://twitter.com/jeffiel) as a means of disclosing information about our Company, our services and other matters and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Further corporate governance information, including our corporate governance guidelines and code of business conduct and ethics, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading "Corporate Governance." The contents of our websites and the social media channels identified above are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 40 Table of Contents