Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. In addition to historical financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that are based upon current plans, expectations and beliefs that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth under Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview We are the leader in the cloud communications platform category. We enable developers to build, scale and operate realtime customer engagement within their software applications. We offer a customer engagement platform with software designed to address specific use cases like account security and contact centers, and a set of Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) that handles the higher level communication logic needed for nearly every type of customer engagement. These APIs are focused on the business challenges that a developer is looking to address, allowing our customers to more quickly and easily build better ways to engage with their customers throughout their journey. We also offer a set of APIs that enable developers to embed voice, messaging, video and email capabilities into their applications, and are designed to support almost all the fundamental ways humans communicate, unlocking innovators to address just about any communication market. The Super Network is our software layer that allows our customers software to communicate with connected devices globally. It interconnects with communications networks and inbox service providers around the world and continually analyzes data to optimize the quality and cost of communications that flow through our platform. The Super Network also contains a set of APIs giving our customers access to more foundational components of our platform, like phone numbers. Our customers applications are able to reach users via voice, messaging, video and email in nearly every country in the world by utilizing our platform. We support our global business through over 25 cloud data centers across more than seven regions around the world and have developed contractual relationships with network service providers globally. Our business model is primarily focused on reaching and serving the needs of software developers, who we believe are becoming increasingly influential in technology decisions in a wide variety of companies. We call this approach our Business Model for Innovators, which empowers developers by reducing friction and upfront costs, encouraging experimentation, and enabling developers to grow as customers as their ideas succeed. We established and maintain our leadership position by engaging directly with, and cultivating, our developer community, which has led to the rapid adoption of our platform. We reach developers through community events and conferences, including our SIGNAL customer and developer conference, to demonstrate how every developer can create differentiated applications incorporating communications using our products. Once developers are introduced to our platform, we provide them with a low friction trial experience. By accessing our easytoadopt APIs, extensive selfservice documentation and customer support team, developers build our products into their applications and then test such applications through free trial periods that we provide. Once they have decided to use our products beyond the initial free trial period, customers provide their credit card information and only pay for the actual usage of our products. As customers' use of our products grows larger, some enter into negotiated contracts with terms that dictate pricing, and typically include some level of minimum revenue commitments. Historically, we have acquired the substantial majority of our customers through this selfservice model. As customers expand their usage of our platform, our relationships with them often evolve to include business leaders within their organizations. Once our customers reach a certain spending level with us, we support them with account executives or customer success advocates within our sales organization to ensure their satisfaction and expand their usage of our products. We also supplement our selfservice model with a sales effort aimed at engaging larger potential customers and existing customers through a direct sales approach. To help increase our awareness in the enterprise, we have expanded our marketing efforts through programs like our Twilio Engage roadshow, where we seek to bring business leaders and developers together to discuss the future of customer engagement. We have developed products to support this effort as well, like the Twilio Enterprise Plan, which provides capabilities for advanced security, access management and granular administration. Our sales organization targets technical leaders and business leaders who are seeking to leverage software to drive competitive differentiation. As we educate these leaders on the benefits of developing applications incorporating our products to differentiate their business, they often consult with their developers regarding implementation. We believe that developers are often advocates for our products as a result of our developerfocused approach. Our sales organization includes sales development, inside sales, field sales and sales engineering personnel. 29 Table of Contents When potential customers do not have the available developer resources to build their own applications, we refer them to either our technology partners who embed our products in the solutions that they sell to other businesses (such as contact centers and sales force and marketing automation), or our consulting partners who provide consulting and development services for organizations that have limited software development expertise to build our platform into their software applications. We generate the substantial majority of our revenue from customers based on their usage of our software products that they have incorporated into their applications. Our Flex contact center platform is generally offered on a per user, per month basis or on a usage basis per agent hour. In addition, our email API is offered on a monthly subscription basis and our Marketing Campaigns product is priced based on the number of email contacts stored on our platform and the number of monthly emails sent to those contacts through our Email API. Also, customers using our Programmable Messaging or Programmable Voice APIs typically purchase one or more telephone numbers from us, for which we charge a monthly flat fee per number. Some customers also choose to purchase various levels of premium customer support for a monthly fee. Customers that register in our selfservice model typically pay upfront via credit card and draw down their balance as they purchase or use our products. Most of our customers draw down their balance in the same month they pay up front or are charged on a monthly subscription basis for our email-related products. As a result, our deferred revenue and customer deposits liability at any particular time is not a meaningful indicator of future revenue. As our customers usage grows, some of our customers enter into contracts and are invoiced monthly in arrears. Most of these customer contracts have terms of approximately 12 months and typically include some level of minimum revenue commitment. Most customers with minimum revenue commitment contracts generate a significant amount of revenue in excess of their minimum revenue commitment in any period. Historically, the aggregate minimum commitment revenue from customers with whom we have contracts has constituted a minority of our revenue in any period, and we expect this to continue in the future. Our developerfocused products are delivered to customers and users through our Super Network, which uses software to optimize communications on our platform. We interconnect with communications networks and inbox service providers globally to deliver our products, and therefore we have arrangements with network service providers in many regions in the world. Historically, a substantial majority of our cost of revenue has been network service provider fees. We continue to optimize our network service provider coverage and connectivity through continuous improvements in routing and sourcing in order to lower the usage expenses we incur for network service provider fees. As we benefit from our platform optimization efforts, we sometimes pass these savings on to customers in the form of lower usage prices on our products in an effort to drive increased usage and expand the reach and scale of our platform. In the near term, we intend to operate our business to expand the reach and scale of our platform and to grow our revenue, rather than to maximize our gross margins. We have achieved significant growth in recent periods. In the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, our revenue was $590.0 million and $364.9 million, respectively, and our net loss was $206.5 million and $94.8 million, respectively. In the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, our 10 largest Active Customer Accounts generated an aggregate of 12% and 15% of our total revenue, respectively. Investment in Syniverse Corporation In February 2021, we entered into a Framework Agreement with Syniverse Corporation (Syniverse) and Carlyle Partners V Holdings, L.P. (Carlyle) (the Framework Agreement), pursuant to which Syniverse will issue to us shares of Syniverse common stock in consideration for an investment by us of up to $750.0 million. In connection with the closing of the investment, we and Syniverse will enter into a wholesale agreement, in which Syniverse will process, route and deliver application-to-person messages originating and/or terminating between our customers and mobile network operators. The investment is expected to result in us holding a significant minority equity ownership position in Syniverse, subject to certain adjustments based on the terms of the final agreement. This proposed transaction closing is subject to consummation of certain other transactions by Syniverse, as defined in the Framework Agreement, and other customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals. The closing is expected to occur before the end of 2021. Acquisition of ValueFirst Digital Media Private Limited On March 12, 2021, we acquired ValueFirst Digital Media Private Limited, an enterprise communications platform in India, for a purchase price of $70.2 million paid in cash. Refer to Note 6 of our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further details related to this acquisition. 30 Table of Contents Public Equity Offering In February 2021, we completed a public equity offering in which we sold 4,312,500 shares of our Class A common stock at a public offering price of $409.60 per share. We received aggregate proceeds of $1.8 billion after deducting offering expenses paid and payable by us. Issuance of 2029 and 2031 Senior Notes In March 2021, we issued and sold $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes, consisting of $500.0 million principal amount of 3.625% notes due 2029 (the 2029 Notes) and $500.0 million principal amount of 3.875% notes due 2031 (the 2031 Notes, and together with the 2029 Notes, the Notes). The net proceeds from the debt offering of the Notes were approximately $985.1 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and issuance costs paid and payable by us. Refer to Note 9 of our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further details related to these transactions. COVID-19 UPDATE A novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19) was declared a global pandemic during the first quarter of 2020 and has resulted in the imposition of numerous, unprecedented, national and international measures to try to contain the virus, including travel bans and restrictions, shutdowns, quarantines, shelter-in-place and social distancing orders. To prioritize the health and safety of our employees, customers and our community at large, we have either cancelled or shifted other planned events to virtual-only experiences and may determine to alter, postpone or cancel additional customer, employee or industry events in the future. Since mid-March 2020, we have also taken several precautionary measures to protect our employees and contingent workers and help minimize the spread of the virus, including temporarily closing our worldwide offices, requiring all employees and contingent workers to work from home and suspending all business travel worldwide for our employees for the time being. The broader implications of COVID-19 on our results of operations and overall financial performance remain uncertain. The COVID-19 pandemic and its adverse effects have been prevalent in the locations where we, our customers, suppliers or third-party business partners conduct business. In the three months ended March 31, 2021, we experienced stable or increased usage in industries most impacted by COVID-19, including travel, hospitality, and ridesharing, among others. We acknowledge that there may be additional impacts to the economy and our business as a result of COVID-19. We expect that there may be some volatility in customer demand and buying habits as the pandemic continues, and we may experience constrained supply or curtailed customer demand that could materially and adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial performance in future periods. Specifically, we may experience impact from delayed sales cycles, including customers and prospective customers delaying contract signing or contract renewals, or reducing budgets or minimum commitments related to the products and services that we offer and changes to consumer behavior that may affect customers who use our products and service for confirmations, notifications, and other use cases. While we are continuing our recruiting efforts, it is possible that the pace of our hiring may slow during the COVID-19 pandemic. See the risk factor titled The global COVID-19 pandemic may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial performance in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion of the possible impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Key Business Metrics Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 Number of Active Customer Accounts (as of end date of period) (1) 235,000 190,000 Total Revenue (in thousands) (1) $ 589,988 $ 364,868 Total Revenue Growth Rate (1) 62 % 57 % Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate (2) 133 % 143 % ____________________ (1) Includes the contributions from our ValueFirst business, acquired March 12, 2021, and Twilio Segment business, acquired November 2, 2020. (2) Revenue from ValueFirst and Twilio Segment will not impact this calculation until the one-year anniversary of the acquisition. 31 Table of Contents Number of Active Customer Accounts. We believe that the number of Active Customer Accounts is an important indicator of the growth of our business, the market acceptance of our platform and future revenue trends. We define an Active Customer Account at the end of any period as an individual account, as identified by a unique account identifier, for which we have recognized at least $5 of revenue in the last month of the period. We believe that use of our platform by customers at or above the $5 per month threshold is a stronger indicator of potential future engagement than trial usage of our platform or usage at levels below $5 per month. In the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, revenue from Active Customer Accounts represented over 99% of total revenue in each period. A single organization may constitute multiple unique Active Customer Accounts if it has multiple account identifiers, each of which is treated as a separate Active Customer Account. DollarBased Net Expansion Rate. Our ability to drive growth and generate incremental revenue depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and grow our relationships with existing Active Customer Accounts and to increase their use of the platform. An important way in which we have historically tracked performance in this area is by measuring the Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate for Active Customer Accounts. Our Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate increases when such Active Customer Accounts increase their usage of a product, extend their usage of a product to new applications or adopt a new product. Our Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate decreases when such Active Customer Accounts cease or reduce their usage of a product or when we lower usage prices on a product. As our customers grow their businesses and extend the use of our platform, they sometimes create multiple customer accounts with us for operational or other reasons. As such, when we identify a significant customer organization (defined as a single customer organization generating more than 1% of revenue in a quarterly reporting period) that has created a new Active Customer Account, this new Active Customer Account is tied to, and revenue from this new Active Customer Account is included with, the original Active Customer Account for the purposes of calculating this metric. We believe that measuring Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate provides a more meaningful indication of the performance of our efforts to increase revenue from existing customers. To calculate the Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate, we first identify the cohort of Active Customer Accounts that were Active Customer Accounts in the same quarter of the prior year. The Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate is the quotient obtained by dividing the revenue generated from that cohort in a quarter, by the revenue generated from that same cohort in the corresponding quarter in the prior year. When we calculate Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate for periods longer than one quarter, we use the average of the applicable quarterly Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rates for each of the quarters in such period. Key Components of Statements of Operations Revenue. We derive our revenue primarily from usagebased fees earned from customers using the software products within our Solutions APIs and Channel APIs. These usagebased software products include offerings, such as Programmable Voice, Programmable Messaging and Programmable Video. Some examples of the usagebased fees for which we charge include minutes of call duration activity for our Programmable Voice products, number of text messages sent or received using our Programmable Messaging products and number of authentications for our Account Security products. In the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, we generated 71% and 74% of our revenue, respectively, from usagebased fees. We also earn monthly flat fees from certain feebased products, such as our Email API, Marketing Campaigns, Flex seats, telephone numbers, short codes and customer support. When customers first begin using our platform, they typically pay upfront via credit card in monthly prepaid amounts and draw down their balances as they purchase or use our products. Our larger customers often enter into contracts, for at least 12 months that contain minimum revenue commitments, which may contain more favorable pricing. Customers on such contracts typically are invoiced monthly in arrears for products used. Amounts that have been charged via credit card or invoiced are recorded in revenue, deferred revenue or customer deposits, depending on whether the revenue recognition criteria have been met. Our deferred revenue and customer deposits liability balance is not a meaningful indicator of our future revenue at any point in time because the number of contracts with our invoiced customers that contain terms requiring any form of prepayment is not significant. We define U.S. revenue as revenue from customers with IP addresses or mailing addresses at the time of registration in the United States, and we define international revenue as revenue from customers with IP addresses or mailing addresses at the time of registration outside of the United States. 32 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin. Cost of revenue consists primarily of fees paid to network service providers. Cost of revenue also includes cloud infrastructure fees, direct costs of personnel, such as salaries and stockbased compensation for our customer support employees, and nonpersonnel costs, such as depreciation and amortization expense related to data centers and hosting equipment, amortization of capitalized internal use software development costs and acquired intangibles. Our arrangements with network service providers require us to pay fees based on the volume of phone calls initiated or text messages sent, as well as the number of telephone numbers acquired by us to service our customers. Our arrangements with our cloud infrastructure provider require us to pay fees based on our server capacity consumption. Our gross margin has been and will continue to be affected by a number of factors, including the timing and extent of our investments in our operations, our product mix, our ability to manage our network service provider and cloud infrastructurerelated fees, including Application to Person SMS fees, the mix of U.S. revenue compared to international revenue, changes in foreign exchange rates and the timing of amortization of capitalized software development costs and acquired intangibles and the extent to which we periodically choose to pass on our cost savings from platform optimization efforts to our customers in the form of lower usage prices. Operating Expenses. The most significant components of operating expenses are personnel costs, which consist of salaries, benefits, sales commissions and bonuses and stockbased compensation. We also incur other nonpersonnel costs related to our general overhead expenses. We expect that our operating costs will increase in absolute dollars as we add additional employees and invest in our infrastructure to grow our business. Research and Development. Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, outsourced engineering services, cloud infrastructure fees for staging and development, amortization of capitalized internal use software development costs, depreciation and an allocation of our general overhead expenses. We capitalize the portion of our software development costs that meets the criteria for capitalization. We continue to focus our research and development efforts on adding new features and products, including new use cases, improving our platform and increasing the functionality of our existing products. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, including commissions for our sales employees. Sales and marketing expenses also include expenditures related to advertising, marketing, our brand awareness activities and developer evangelism, costs related to our SIGNAL customer and developer conferences, credit card processing fees, professional services fees, depreciation, amortization of acquired intangibles and an allocation of our general overhead expenses. We focus our sales and marketing efforts on generating awareness of our company, platform and products through our developer evangelist team and selfservice model, creating sales leads and establishing and promoting our brand, both domestically and internationally. We plan to continue investing in sales and marketing by increasing our sales and marketing headcount, supplementing our selfservice model with an enterprise sales approach, expanding our sales channels, driving our gotomarket strategies, building our brand awareness and sponsoring additional marketing events. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our accounting, finance, legal, human resources and administrative support personnel and executives. General and administrative expenses also include costs related to business acquisitions, legal and other professional services fees, certain taxes, depreciation and amortization and an allocation of our general overhead expenses. We expect that we will incur costs associated with supporting the growth of our business and to meet the increased compliance requirements associated with our international expansion. We may also incur higher than usual losses related to deterioration of quality of certain financial assets caused by the macroeconomic conditions and uncertainly in the COVID-19 environment. Our general and administrative expenses include a certain amount of sales and other taxes to which we are subject in the United States and internationally based on the manner we sell and deliver our products. Provision for Income Taxes. Our income tax provision or benefit for interim periods is determined using an estimate of our annual effective tax rate, adjusted for discrete items occurring in the quarter. The primary difference between our effective tax rate and the federal statutory rate relates to the full valuation allowance the Company established on the federal, state, and certain foreign net operating losses and credits. 33 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Financial Measures: We use the following nonGAAP financial information, collectively, to evaluate our ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes. We believe that nonGAAP financial information, when taken collectively, may be helpful to investors because it provides consistency and comparability with past financial performance, facilitates periodtoperiod comparisons of results of operations, and assists in comparisons with other companies, many of which use similar nonGAAP financial information to supplement their GAAP results. NonGAAP financial information is presented for supplemental informational purposes only, should not be considered a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and may be different from similarlytitled nonGAAP measures used by other companies. Whenever we use a nonGAAP financial measure, a reconciliation is provided to the most closely applicable financial measure stated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Investors are encouraged to review the related GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation of these nonGAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. NonGAAP Gross Profit and NonGAAP Gross Margin. For the periods presented, we define nonGAAP gross profit and nonGAAP gross margin as GAAP gross profit and GAAP gross margin, respectively, adjusted to exclude, as applicable, certain expenses as presented in the table below: Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 Reconciliation: (In thousands) Gross profit $ 298,304 $ 193,535 Non-GAAP adjustments: Stock-based compensation 2,717 1,837 Amortization of acquired intangibles 26,342 12,381 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 327,363 $ 207,753 Non-GAAP gross margin 55 % 57 % NonGAAP Operating Expenses . For the periods presented, we define nonGAAP operating expenses (including categories of operating expenses) as GAAP operating expenses (and categories of operating expenses) adjusted to exclude, as applicable, certain expenses as presented in the table below: Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 Reconciliation: (In thousands) Operating expenses $ 495,643 $ 286,231 Non-GAAP adjustments: Stock-based compensation (134,438) (67,188) Amortization of acquired intangibles (18,809) (7,911) Acquisition-related expenses (2,764) (302) Charitable contributions (9,405) (2,701) Payroll taxes related to stock-based compensation (20,171) (6,453) Non-GAAP operating expenses $ 310,056 $ 201,676 34 Table of Contents NonGAAP Income from Operations and NonGAAP Operating Margin . For the periods presented, we define nonGAAP income from operations and nonGAAP operating margin as GAAP loss from operations and GAAP operating margin, respectively, adjusted to exclude, as applicable, certain expenses as presented in the table below: Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 Reconciliation: (In thousands) Loss from operations $ (197,339) $ (92,696) Non-GAAP adjustments: Stock-based compensation 137,155 69,025 Amortization of acquired intangibles 45,151 20,292 Acquisition-related expenses 2,764 302 Charitable contributions 9,405 2,701 Payroll taxes related to stock-based compensation 20,171 6,453 Non-GAAP income from operations $ 17,307 $ 6,077 Non-GAAP operating margin 3 % 2 % 35 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following tables set forth our results of operations for the periods presented and as a percentage of our total revenue for those periods. The period-to-period comparison of our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected in the future. Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: (In thousands) Revenue $ 589,988 $ 364,868 Cost of revenue (1) (2) 291,684 171,333 Gross profit 298,304 193,535 Operating expenses: Research and development (1) (2) 174,800 114,339 Sales and marketing (1) (2) 210,590 116,722 General and administrative (1) (2) 110,253 55,170 Total operating expenses 495,643 286,231 Loss from operations (197,339) (92,696) Other expenses, net (8,313) (1,118) Loss before provision for income taxes (205,652) (93,814) Provision for income taxes (890) (977) Net loss attributable to common stockholders $ (206,542) $ (94,791) ____________________________________ (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 (In thousands) Cost of revenue $ 2,717 $ 1,837 Research and development 56,959 33,209 Sales and marketing 41,636 19,943 General and administrative 35,843 14,036 Total $ 137,155 $ 69,025 ____________________________________ (2) Includes amortization of acquired intangibles as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 (In thousands) Cost of revenue $ 26,342 $ 12,381 Sales and marketing 18,694 7,864 General and administrative 115 47 Total $ 45,151 $ 20,292 36 Table of Contents Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations, as a percentage of revenue: ** Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 49 47 Gross profit 51 53 Operating expenses: Research and development 30 31 Sales and marketing 36 32 General and administrative 19 15 Total operating expenses 84 78 Loss from operations (33) (25) Other expenses, net (1) * Loss before provision for income taxes (35) (26) Provision for income taxes * * Net loss attributable to common stockholders (35 %) (26 %) ____________________________________ * Less than 0.5% of revenue. ** Columns may not add up to 100% due to rounding. Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 and 2020 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 Change (Dollars in thousands) Total Revenue $ 589,988 $ 364,868 $ 225,120 62 % In the three months ended March 31, 2021, total revenue increased by $225.1 million, or 62%, compared to the same period last year. This increase was primarily attributable to an increase in the usage of our products, particularly our Programmable Messaging products and Programmable Voice products, the adoption of additional products by our existing customers, and revenue contribution from the acquisition of our Twilio Segment business. The change in usage was reflected in our DollarBased Net Expansion Rate of 133% for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase in usage was also attributable to a 24% increase in the number of Active Customer Accounts, from 190,000 as of March 31, 2020, to over 235,000 as of March 31, 2021, which was also positively impacted by the customer accounts added through our acquisition of the Twilio Segment businesses. In the three months ended March 31, 2021, U.S. revenue and international revenue represented $421.5 million or 71%, and $168.5 million, or 29%, respectively, of total revenue. In the three months ended March 31, 2020, U.S. revenue and international revenue represented $261.8 million, or 72%, and $103.1 million, or 28%, respectively, of total revenue. The increase in international revenue was attributable to the growth in usage of our products, particularly our Programmable Messaging products and Programmable Voice products, by our existing international Active Customer Accounts; a 23% increase in the number of international Active Customer Accounts driven in part by our focus on expanding our sales to customers outside of the United States; and revenue contribution from the acquisition of our Twilio Segment business. 37 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 Change (Dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 291,684 $ 171,333 $ 120,351 70 % Gross margin 51 % 53 % In the three months ended March 31, 2021, cost of revenue increased by $120.4 million, or 70%, compared to the same period last year. The increase in cost of revenue was primarily attributable to a $84.7 million increase in network service providers costs and a $13.8 million increase in cloud infrastructure fees, both to support the growth in usage of our products. The increase was also due to a $14.0 million increase in the amortization expense of intangible assets that we acquired through business combinations. In the three months ended March 31, 2021, gross margin percentage declined compared to the same period last year. This decline was primarily driven by a re-acceleration in growth of our messaging business, an increase in amortization expense related to acquired intangible assets, the impact of an increasing mix of international product usage and an increase in network service provider fees in certain geographies. These declines were partially offset by the impact of the acquisition of the Twilio Segment business and certain operational improvements. Operating Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 Change (Dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 174,800 $ 114,339 $ 60,461 53 % Sales and marketing 210,590 116,722 93,868 80 % General and administrative 110,253 55,170 55,083 100 % Total operating expenses $ 495,643 $ 286,231 $ 209,412 73 % In the three months ended March 31, 2021, research and development expenses increased by $60.5 million, or 53%, compared to the same period last year. The increase was primarily attributable to a $52.6 million increase in personnel costs, net of a $3.0 million increase in capitalized software development costs, largely as a result of a 54% average increase in our research and development headcount, as we continued to focus on enhancing our existing products, introducing new products as well as enhancing product management and other technical functions. The increase was also due to a $3.1 million increase in our cloud infrastructure fees related to staging and development of our products. In addition, the three months ended March 31, 2021 included research and development expenses and the impact of growth in the headcount, from our acquired Twilio Segment business on November 2, 2020. In the three months ended March 31, 2021, sales and marketing expenses increased by $93.9 million, or 80%, compared to the same period last year. The increase was primarily attributable to a $65.3 million increase in personnel costs, largely as a result of an 85% average increase in sales and marketing headcount, as we continued to expand our sales efforts in the United States and abroad. The increase was also due to a $10.8 million increase related to the amortization of acquired intangible assets and a $6.4 million increase in advertising expenses. In addition, the three months ended March 31, 2021 included sales and marketing expenses and the impact of growth in the headcount from our acquired Twilio Segment business on November 2, 2020. In the three months ended March 31, 2021, general and administrative expenses increased by $55.1 million, or 100%, compared to the same period last year. The increase was primarily attributable to a $34.7 million increase in personnel costs, largely as a result of a 76% average increase in general and administrative headcount, to support the growth of our business domestically and internationally. The increase was also due to a $6.7 million increase in charitable contributions and a $2.5 million increase in professional service fees related to our acquisitions of other businesses. Additionally, certain of our taxes increased by $1.5 million primarily in foreign jurisdictions and our professional services fees increased by $2.1 million. Further, the three months ended March 31, 2021 included general and administrative expenses and the impact of growth in the headcount from our acquired Twilio Segment business on November 2, 2020. 38 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity have been (i) the net proceeds of $979.0 million, $1.4 billion and $1.8 billion, net of underwriting discounts and offering expenses paid by us, from our public equity offerings in June 2019, August 2020 and February 2021, respectively; (ii) the net proceeds of approximately $537.0 million, after deducting purchaser discounts and debt issuance costs paid by us, from issuance of our Convertible Notes in May 2018; (iii) the aggregate net proceeds of approximately $985.1 million, after deducting purchaser discounts and debt issuance costs paid or payable by us, from issuance of our 2029 Notes and 2031 Notes in March 2021; and (iv) the payments received from customers using our products. We believe that our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances, as well as the cash flows generated by our operations will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. However, our belief may prove to be incorrect, and we could utilize our available financial resources sooner than we currently expect. Our future capital requirements and the adequacy of available funds will depend on many factors, including those set forth in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing in order to meet these future capital requirements. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Additionally, cash from operations could also be affected by various risks and uncertainties in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic, including timing and ability to collect payments from our customers and other risks detailed in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 (In thousands) Cash provided by operating activities $ 4,505 $ 15,535 Cash (used in) provided by investing activities (1,366,021) 71,645 Cash provided by financing activities 2,759,449 4,603 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash (44) Net increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 1,397,889 $ 91,783 Cash Flows from Operating Activities In the three months ended March 31, 2021, cash provided by operating activities consisted primarily of our net loss of $206.5 million adjusted for non-cash items, including $137.2 million of stock-based compensation expense, $59.6 million of depreciation and amortization expense, $9.4 million of donated common stock, $7.6 million loss on extinguishment of our Convertible Notes, $3.4 million amortization of the debt discount and issuance costs related primarily to our Convertible Notes, $11.7 million of non-cash reduction to our operating right-of-use asset, $5.6 million amortization of deferred commissions, a $2.0 million increase in our allowance for credit losses, and $32.7 million of cumulative changes in operating assets and liabilities. With respect to changes in operating assets and liabilities, accounts receivable and prepaid expenses increased $24.3 million primarily due to the timing of cash receipts from certain of our larger customers, pre-payments for cloud infrastructure fees and certain operating expenses. Accounts payable and other current liabilities increased $18.0 million primarily due to increases in transaction volumes. Operating lease liability decreased $12.1 million due to payments made against our operating lease obligations. Other long-term assets increased $15.2 million primarily due to an increase in the sales commissions balances related to the growth of our business. 39 Table of Contents In the three months ended March 31, 2020, cash provided by operating activities consisted primarily of our net loss of $94.8 million adjusted for non-cash items, including $69.0 million of stock-based compensation expense, $32.2 million of depreciation and amortization expense, $8.0 million of reduction to our operating right-of-use asset, $6.2 million in amortization of debt discount and issuance costs, a $4.2 million increase in allowance for credit losses and $16.2 million of cumulative changes in operating assets and liabilities. With respect to changes in operating assets and liabilities, accounts receivable and prepaid expenses increased $31.3 million primarily due to the timing of cash receipts from our customers, pre-payments for cloud infrastructure fees and certain operating expenses. Accounts payable and other current liabilities increased $24.0 million primarily due to increases in transaction volumes. Our operating right-of-use liability decreased $7.0 million due to payments made against our operating lease obligations. Our long-term assets increased $5.8 million primarily due to an increase in the deferred sales commissions balances related to the growth of our business. Cash Flows from Investing Activities In the three months ended March 31, 2021, cash used in investing activities was $1.4 billion primarily consisting of $1.3 billion of purchases of marketable securities and other investments, net of maturities and sales, $66.9 million of net cash paid to acquire other businesses as described in Note 6 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, $10.4 million related to capitalized software development costs and $5.0 million related to purchases of long-lived assets. In the three months ended March 31, 2020, cash provided by investing activities was $71.6 million primarily consisting of $89.0 million of maturities and sales of marketable securities and other investments, net of purchases, $8.6 million related to capitalized software development costs and $6.3 million related to purchases of long-lived assets. Cash Flows from Financing Activities In the three months ended March 31, 2021, cash provided by financing activities was $2.8 billion primarily consisting of $1.8 billion in net proceeds from our public equity offering, as described in Note 13 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, $987.4 million in net proceeds from the issuance of our 2029 Notes and 2031 Notes, as described in Note 9 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and $11.6 million in proceeds from stock options exercised by our employees. This was offset by $2.8 million in principal payments on finance leases and $2.8 million related to the value of equity awards withheld to settle tax liabilities. In the three months ended March 31, 2020, cash provided by financing activities was $4.6 million primarily consisting of $8.2 million in proceeds from stock options exercised by our employees. This was offset by $2.0 million in principal payments on financing leases and $1.7 million related to the value of equity awards withheld to settle tax liabilities. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America. The preparation of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. There have been no changes to our critical accounting policies as described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 26, 2021. Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted Refer to Note 2 to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements not yet adopted. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have not entered into any off-balance sheet arrangements and do not have any holdings in variable interest entities. 40 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments Our principal commitments consist of obligations under our Convertible Notes, our 2029 Notes and 2031 Notes, our operating leases for office space and our contractual commitments to our cloud infrastructure and network service providers. In the three months ended March 31, 2021, we entered into several non-cancelable vendor agreements with terms up to three years for a total purchase commitment of $426.9 million. Available Information The following filings are available for download free of charge through our investor relations website after we file them with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC): Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and our Proxy Statement for our annual meeting of stockholders. Our investor relations website is located at http://investors.twilio.com. The SEC also maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy statements and other information about issuers, like us, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that website is www.sec.gov. We webcast our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community on our investor relations website. Additionally, we provide notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases and blogs as part of our investor relations website. We also use our Twitter Account (https://twitter.com/twilio) and the Twitter account of our Chief Executive Officer, Jeff Lawson (https://twitter.com/jeffiel) as a means of disclosing information about our Company, our services and other matters and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Further corporate governance information, including our corporate governance guidelines and code of business conduct and ethics, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading Corporate Governance. The contents of our websites and the social media channels identified above are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.