Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. In addition to historical financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that are based upon current plans, expectations and beliefs that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth under Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Our fiscal year ends on December 31. Overview We are the leader in the Cloud Communications Platform category. We enable developers to build, scale and operate realtime communications within their software applications via our simpletouse Application Programming Interfaces (APIs). The power, flexibility, and reliability offered by our software building blocks empowers companies of virtually every shape and size to build worldclass engagement into their customer experience. Our platform consists of three layers: our Engagement Cloud, Programmable Communications Cloud and Super Network. Our Engagement Cloud software is designed to address specific use cases like account security and contact centers and is a set of APIs that handles the higher level communication logic needed for nearly every type of customer engagement. These APIs are focused on the business challenges that a developer is looking to address, allowing our customers to more quickly and easily build better ways to engage with their customers throughout their journey. Our Programmable Communications Cloud software is a set of APIs that enables developers to embed voice, messaging, video and email capabilities into their applications. The Programmable Communications Cloud is designed to support almost all the fundamental ways humans communicate, unlocking innovators to address just about any communication market. The Super Network is our software layer that allows our customers software to communicate with connected devices globally. It interconnects with communications networks and inbox service providers around the world and continually analyzes data to optimize the quality and cost of communications that flow through our platform. The Super Network also contains a set of APIs that gives our customers access to more foundational components of our platform, like phone numbers. As of March 31, 2019, our customers applications that are embedded with our products could reach users via voice, messaging, video, and email in nearly every country in the world. We support our global business through 28 cloud data centers in seven regions around the world and have developed contractual relationships with network service providers globally. Our business model is primarily focused on reaching and serving the needs of software developers, who we believe are becoming increasingly influential in technology decisions in a wide variety of companies. We call this approach our Business Model for Innovators, which empowers developers by reducing friction and upfront costs, encouraging experimentation, and enabling developers to grow as customers as their ideas succeed. We established and maintain our leadership position by engaging directly with, and cultivating, our developer community, which has led to the rapid adoption of our platform. We reach developers through community events and conferences, including our SIGNAL developer conferences, to demonstrate how every developer can create differentiated applications incorporating communications using our products. Once developers are introduced to our platform, we provide them with a low friction trial experience. By accessing our easytoadopt APIs, extensive selfservice documentation and customer support team, developers build our products into their applications and then test such applications through free trials. Once they have decided to use our products beyond the initial free trial period, customers provide their credit card information and only pay for the actual usage of our products. Historically, we have acquired the substantial majority of our customers through this selfservice model. As customers expand their usage of our platform, our relationships with them often evolve to include business leaders within their organizations. Once our customers reach a certain spending level with us, we support them with account executives or customer success advocates within our sales organization to ensure their satisfaction and expand their usage of our products. We also supplement our selfservice model with a sales effort aimed at engaging larger potential customers, strategic leads and existing customers through a direct sales approach. To help increase awareness of our products in the enterprise, we have expanded our marketing efforts through programs like our Twilio Engage roadshow were we seek to bring business leaders and developers together to discuss the future of customer engagement. We have developed products to support this effort as well, like the Twilio Enterprise Plan, which provides capabilities for advanced security, access management and granular administration. Our sales organization targets technical leaders and business leaders who are seeking to leverage software to drive competitive differentiation. As we educate these leaders on the benefits of developing applications incorporating our products to differentiate their business, they often consult with their developers regarding implementation. 32 Table of Contents We believe that developers are often advocates for our products as a result of our developerfocused approach. Our sales organization includes sales development, inside sales, field sales and sales engineering personnel. When potential customers do not have the available developer resources to build their own applications, we refer them to either our technology partners who embed our products in the solutions that they sell to other businesses (such as contact centers and sales force and marketing automation) or our consulting partners who provide consulting and development services for organizations that have limited software development expertise to build our platform into their software applications. We generate the substantial majority of our revenue from customers based on their usage of our software products that they have incorporated into their applications. In addition, our email API is offered on a monthly subscription basis and our Marketing Campaigns product is priced based on the number of email contacts stored on our platform and the number of monthly emails sent to those contacts through our Email API. Also, customers using our Programmable Messaging or Programmable Voice APIs typically purchase one or more telephone numbers from us, for which we charge a monthly flat fee per number. Some customers also choose to purchase various levels of premium customer support for a monthly fee. Customers that register in our selfservice model typically pay upfront via credit card and draw down their balance as they purchase or use our products. Most of our customers draw down their balance in the same month they pay up front or are charged on a monthly subscription basis for our email-related products. As a result, our deferred revenue and customer deposits liability at any particular time is not a meaningful indicator of future revenue. As our customers usage grows, some of our customers enter into contracts and are invoiced monthly in arrears. Many of these customer contracts have terms of 12 months and typically include some level of minimum revenue commitment. Most customers with minimum revenue commitment contracts generate a significant amount of revenue in excess of their minimum revenue commitment in any period. Historically, the aggregate minimum commitment revenue from customers with whom we have contracts has constituted a minority of our revenue in any period, and we expect this to continue in the future. Our developerfocused products are delivered to customers and users through our Super Network, which uses software to optimize communications on our platform. We interconnect with communications networks and inbox service providers globally to deliver our products, and therefore we have arrangements with network service providers in many regions in the world. Historically, a substantial majority of our cost of revenue has been network service provider fees. We continue to optimize our network service provider coverage and connectivity through continuous improvements in routing and sourcing in order to lower the usage expenses we incur for network service provider fees. As we benefit from our platform optimization efforts, we sometimes pass these savings on to customers in the form of lower usage prices on our products in an effort to drive increased usage and expand the reach and scale of our platform. In the near term, we intend to operate our business to expand the reach and scale of our platform and to grow our revenue, rather than to maximize our gross margins. We have achieved significant growth in recent periods. In the three months ended March 31, 2019 and the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, our revenue was $233.1 million , $650.1 million and $399.0 million, respectively. In the three months ended March 31, 2019 and the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, our 10 largest Active Customer Accounts generated an aggregate of 14%, 18% and 19%, respectively, of our total revenue. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, among our 10 largest Active Customer Accounts we had three Variable Customer Accounts representing 5% of our total revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 8% of our total revenue in each of the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017. In the three months ended March 31, 2019 and the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, our Base Revenue was $220.9 million , $593.0 million and $365.5 million, respectively, and our net loss was $36.5 million , $121.9 million and $63.7 million, respectively. See the section titled -Key Business Metrics-Base Revenue for a discussion of Base Revenue. Acquisition of SendGrid In February 2019, we acquired all outstanding shares of capital stock of SendGrid, Inc. ("SendGrid"), the leading email API platform, by issuing 23.6 million shares of our Class A common stock with a total value of $2,658.9 million and assuming all of the outstanding stock options and restricted stock units outstanding on the day of acquisition with a total value of $191.6 million , for a total purchase price of $2,850.5 million . Each equity award was exchanged for a similar type of our awards based on the conversion ratio provided in the Agreement and Plan of Merger and Reorganization, as amended ("Merger Agreement"). In the three months ended March 31, 2019, and year ended December 31, 2018, we incurred $12.4 million and $3.6 million, respectively, in expenses related to this acquisition. 33 Table of Contents Key Business Metrics Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 Number of Active Customer Accounts (as of end date of period) 154,797 53,985 Base Revenue (in thousands) $ 220,885 $ 117,507 Base Revenue Growth Rate 88 % 46 % Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate 146 % 132 % Number of Active Customer Accounts. We believe that the number of our Active Customer Accounts is an important indicator of the growth of our business, the market acceptance of our platform and future revenue trends. We define an Active Customer Account at the end of any period as an individual account, as identified by a unique account identifier, for which we have recognized at least $5 of revenue in the last month of the period. We believe that the use of our platform by our customers at or above the $5 per month threshold is a stronger indicator of potential future engagement than trial usage of our platform or usage at levels below $5 per month. A single organization may constitute multiple unique Active Customer Accounts if it has multiple account identifiers, each of which is treated as a separate Active Customer Account. In the three months ended March 31, 2019 and the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, revenue from Active Customer Accounts represented over 99% of total revenue in each period. Base Revenue. We monitor Base Revenue as one of the more reliable indicators of future revenue trends. Base Revenue consists of all revenue other than revenue from large Active Customer Accounts that have never entered into 12month minimum revenue commitment contracts with us, which we refer to as Variable Customer Accounts. While almost all of our customer accounts exhibit some level of variability in the usage of our products, based on our experience, we believe that Variable Customer Accounts are more likely to have significant fluctuations in usage of our products from period to period, and therefore that revenue from Variable Customer Accounts may also fluctuate significantly from period to period. This behavior is best evidenced by the decision of such customers not to enter into contracts with us that contain minimum revenue commitments, even though they may spend significant amounts on the use of our products, and they may be foregoing more favorable terms often available to customers that enter into committed contracts with us. This variability adversely affects our ability to rely upon revenue from Variable Customer Accounts when analyzing expected trends in future revenue. For historical periods through March 31, 2016, we defined a Variable Customer Account as an Active Customer Account that (i) had never signed a minimum revenue commitment contract with us for a term of at least 12 months and (ii) had met or exceeded 1% of our revenue in any quarter in the periods presented through March 31, 2016. To allow for consistent periodtoperiod comparisons, in the event a customer account qualified as a Variable Customer Account as of March 31, 2016, or a previously Variable Customer Account ceased to be an Active Customer Account as of such date, we included such customer account as a Variable Customer Account in all periods presented. For reporting periods starting with the three months ended June 30, 2016, we define a Variable Customer Account as a customer account that (a) has been categorized as a Variable Customer Account in any prior quarter, as well as (b) any new customer account that (i) is with a customer that has never signed a minimum revenue commitment contract with us for a term of at least 12 months and (ii) meets or exceeds 1% of our revenue in a quarter. Once a customer account is deemed to be a Variable Customer Account in any period, it remains a Variable Customer Account in subsequent periods unless such customer enters into a minimum revenue commitment contract with us for a term of at least 12 months. In the three months ended March 31, 2019 and the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, we had six Variable Customer Accounts, which represented 5% , 9% and 8%, respectively, of our total revenue. DollarBased Net Expansion Rate. Our ability to drive growth and generate incremental revenue depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and grow our relationships with existing Active Customer Accounts and to increase their use of the platform. An important way in which we track our performance in this area is by measuring the DollarBased Net Expansion Rate for our Active Customer Accounts, other than our Variable Customer Accounts. Our DollarBased Net Expansion Rate increases when such Active Customer Accounts increase usage of a product, extend usage of a product to new applications or adopt a new product. Our DollarBased Net Expansion Rate decreases when such Active Customer Accounts cease or reduce usage of a product or when we lower usage prices on a product. As our customers grow their businesses and extend the use of our platform, they sometimes create multiple customer accounts with us for operational or other reasons. As such, for reporting periods starting with the three months ended December 31, 2016, when we identify a significant customer organization 34 Table of Contents (defined as a single customer organization generating more than 1% of our revenue in a quarterly reporting period) that has created a new Active Customer Account, this new Active Customer Account is tied to, and revenue from this new Active Customer Account is included with, the original Active Customer Account for the purposes of calculating this metric. We believe measuring our DollarBased Net Expansion Rate on revenue generated from our Active Customer Accounts, other than our Variable Customer Accounts, provides a more meaningful indication of the performance of our efforts to increase revenue from existing customers. Our DollarBased Net Expansion Rate compares the revenue from Active Customer Accounts, other than Variable Customer Accounts, in a quarter to the same quarter in the prior year. To calculate the DollarBased Net Expansion Rate, we first identify the cohort of Active Customer Accounts, other than Variable Customer Accounts, that were Active Customer Accounts in the same quarter of the prior year. The DollarBased Net Expansion Rate is the quotient obtained by dividing the revenue generated from that cohort in a quarter, by the revenue generated from that same cohort in the corresponding quarter in the prior year. When we calculate DollarBased Net Expansion Rate for periods longer than one quarter, we use the average of the applicable quarterly DollarBased Net Expansion Rates for each of the quarters in such period. Key Components of Statements of Operations Revenue. We derive our revenue primarily from usagebased fees earned from customers using the software products within our Engagement Cloud and Programmable Communications Cloud. These usagebased software products include offerings, such as Programmable Voice, Programmable Messaging and Programmable Video. Some examples of the usagebased fees for which we charge include minutes of call duration activity for our Programmable Voice products, number of text messages sent or received using our Programmable Messaging products and number of authentications for our Account Security products. In the three months ended March 31, 2019 and the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017. We generated 76%, 84% and 83% of our revenue, respectively, from usagebased fees. We also earn monthly flat fees from certain feebased products, such as our Email API, Marketing Campaigns, Flex seats, telephone numbers, short codes and customer support. Customers typically pay upfront via credit card in monthly prepaid amounts and draw down their balances as they purchase or use our products. As customers grow their usage of our products, they automatically receive tiered usage discounts. Our larger customers often enter into contracts, for at least 12 months that contain minimum revenue commitments, which may contain more favorable pricing. Customers on such contracts typically are invoiced monthly in arrears for products used. Amounts that have been charged via credit card or invoiced are recorded in accounts receivable and in revenue, deferred revenue or customer deposits, depending on whether the revenue recognition criteria have been met. Given that our credit card prepayment amounts tend to be approximately equal to our credit card consumption amounts in each period, customers are charged on a monthly subscription basis for our Email-related products, and that we do not have many invoiced customers on prepayment contract terms, our deferred revenue and customer deposits liability at any particular time is not a meaningful indicator of future revenue. We define U.S. revenue as revenue from customers with IP addresses at the time of registration in the United States, and we define international revenue as revenue from customers with IP addresses at the time of registration outside of the United States. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin. Cost of revenue consists primarily of fees paid to network service providers. Cost of revenue also includes cloud infrastructure fees, personnel costs, such as salaries and stockbased compensation for our customer support employees, and nonpersonnel costs, such as depreciation and amortization expense related to data centers and hosting equipment, amortization of capitalized internal use software development costs and amortization of acquired intangibles. Our arrangements with network service providers require us to pay fees based on the volume of phone calls initiated or text messages sent, as well as the number of telephone numbers acquired by us to service our customers. Our arrangements with our cloud infrastructure provider require us to pay fees based on our server capacity consumption. Our gross margin has been and will continue to be affected by a number of factors, including the timing and extent of our investments in our operations, our product mix, our ability to manage our network service provider and cloud infrastructurerelated fees, the mix of U.S. revenue compared to international revenue, the timing of amortization of capitalized software development costs and acquired intangibles and the extent to which we periodically choose to pass on our cost savings from platform optimization efforts to our customers in the form of lower usage prices. Operating Expenses. The most significant components of operating expenses are personnel costs, which consist of salaries, benefits, bonuses and stockbased compensation. We also incur other nonpersonnel costs related to our general 35 Table of Contents overhead expenses. We expect that our operating costs will increase in absolute dollars as we add additional employees and invest in our infrastructure to grow our business. Research and Development. Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, outsourced engineering services, cloud infrastructure fees for staging and development, amortization of capitalized internal use software development costs and an allocation of our general overhead expenses. We capitalize the portion of our software development costs that meets the criteria for capitalization. We continue to focus our research and development efforts on adding new features and products, including new use cases, improving our platform and increasing the functionality of our existing products. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, including commissions for our sales employees. Sales and marketing expenses also include expenditures related to advertising, marketing, our brand awareness activities and developer evangelism, costs related to our SIGNAL developer conferences, credit card processing fees, professional services fees and an allocation of our general overhead expenses. We focus our sales and marketing efforts on generating awareness of our company, platform and products through our developer evangelist team and selfservice model, creating sales leads and establishing and promoting our brand, both domestically and internationally. We plan to continue investing in sales and marketing by increasing our sales and marketing headcount, supplementing our selfservice model with an enterprise sales approach, expanding our sales channels, driving our gotomarket strategies, building our brand awareness and sponsoring additional marketing events. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our accounting, finance, legal, human resources and administrative support personnel and executives. General and administrative expenses also include costs related to business acquisitions, legal and other professional services fees, sales and other taxes, depreciation and amortization and an allocation of our general overhead expenses. We expect that we will incur costs associated with supporting the growth of our business and to meet the increased compliance requirements associated with our international expansion. Our general and administrative expenses include a certain amount of sales and other taxes to which we are subject based on the manner we sell and deliver our products. Prior to March 2017, we did not collect such taxes from our customers and recorded such taxes as general and administrative expenses. Effective March 2017, we began collecting these taxes from customers in certain jurisdictions and added more jurisdictions throughout 2018 where we are now collecting these taxes. We continue expanding the number of jurisdictions where we will be collecting these taxes in the future. We expect that these expenses will decline in future years as we continue collecting these taxes from our customers in more jurisdictions, which would reduce our rate of ongoing accrual. Provision for Income Taxes. Our income tax provision or benefit for interim periods is determined using an estimate of our annual effective tax rate, adjusted for discrete items occurring in the quarter. The primary difference between our effective tax rate and the federal statutory rate relates to the net operating losses in jurisdictions with a valuation allowance or a zero tax rate, and the income tax benefit recorded in connection with our SendGrid acquisition. Non-GAAP Financial Measures We use the following nonGAAP financial information, collectively, to evaluate our ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes. We believe that nonGAAP financial information, when taken collectively, may be helpful to investors because it provides consistency and comparability with past financial performance, facilitates periodtoperiod comparisons of results of operations, and assists in comparisons with other companies, many of which use similar nonGAAP financial information to supplement their GAAP results. NonGAAP financial information is presented for supplemental informational purposes only, should not be considered a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and may be different from similarlytitled nonGAAP measures used by other companies. Whenever we use a nonGAAP financial measure, a reconciliation is provided to the most closely applicable financial measure stated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Investors are encouraged to review the related GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation of these nonGAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. NonGAAP Gross Profit and NonGAAP Gross Margin. For the periods presented, we define nonGAAP gross profit and nonGAAP gross margin as GAAP gross profit and GAAP gross margin, respectively, adjusted to exclude stockbased compensation and amortization of acquired intangibles. 36 Table of Contents Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 (In thousands) Reconciliation: Gross profit $ 126,050 $ 69,534 Non-GAAP adjustments: Stock-based compensation 1,809 222 Amortization of acquired intangibles 8,460 1,198 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 136,319 $ 70,954 Non-GAAP gross margin 58 % 55 % NonGAAP Operating Expenses. For the periods presented, we define nonGAAP operating expenses (including categories of operating expenses) as GAAP operating expenses (and categories of operating expenses) adjusted to exclude, as applicable, stockbased compensation, amortization of acquired intangibles, acquisitionrelated expenses and payroll taxes related to stockbased compensation. Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 (In thousands) Reconciliation: Operating expenses $ 213,638 $ 93,791 Non-GAAP adjustments: Stock-based compensation (56,515 ) (17,318 ) Amortization of acquired intangibles (5,156 ) (262 ) Acquisition-related expenses (12,543 ) Payroll taxes related to stock-based compensation (6,468 ) (564 ) Non-GAAP operating expenses $ 132,956 $ 75,647 NonGAAP Income (Loss) from Operations and NonGAAP Operating Margin. For the periods presented, we define nonGAAP income (loss) from operations and nonGAAP operating margin as GAAP loss from operations and GAAP operating margin, respectively, adjusted to exclude, as applicable, stockbased compensation, amortization of acquired intangibles, acquisitionrelated expenses and payroll taxes related to stockbased compensation. Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 (In thousands) Reconciliation: Loss from operations $ (87,588 ) $ (24,257 ) Non-GAAP adjustments: Stock-based compensation 58,324 17,540 Amortization of acquired intangibles 13,616 1,460 Acquisition-related expenses 12,543 Payroll taxes related to stock-based compensation 6,468 564 Non-GAAP income (loss) from operations $ 3,363 $ (4,693 ) Non-GAAP operating margin 1 % (4 )% Results of Operations 37 Table of Contents The following tables set forth our results of operations for the periods presented and as a percentage of our total revenue for those periods. The period-to-period comparison of our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected in the future. Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 (In thousands) Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Revenue $ 233,139 $ 129,116 Cost of revenue (1) (2) 107,089 59,582 Gross profit 126,050 69,534 Operating expenses: Research and development (1) (2) 77,855 37,576 Sales and marketing (1) (2) 71,607 32,822 General and administrative (1) (2) 64,176 23,393 Total operating expenses 213,638 93,791 Loss from operations (87,588 ) (24,257 ) Other (expenses) income, net (636 ) 665 Loss before benefit (provision) for income taxes (88,224 ) (23,592 ) Benefit (provision) for income taxes 51,721 (137 ) Net loss attributable to common stockholders $ (36,503 ) $ (23,729 ) ____________________________________ (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 (In thousands) Cost of revenue $ 1,809 $ 222 Research and development 25,339 7,872 Sales and marketing 11,749 3,859 General and administrative 19,427 5,587 Total $ 58,324 $ 17,540 ____________________________________ (2) Includes amortization of acquired intangibles as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 (In thousands) Cost of revenue $ 8,460 $ 1,198 Research and development 22 Sales and marketing 5,003 220 General and administrative 153 20 Total $ 13,616 $ 1,460 38 Table of Contents Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations, as a percentage of revenue:** Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 46 % 46 % Gross profit 54 % 54 % Operating expenses: Research and development 33 % 29 % Sales and marketing 31 % 25 % General and administrative 28 % 18 % Total operating expenses 92 % 73 % Loss from operations (38 %) (19 %) Other (expenses) income, net * 1 % Loss before benefit (provision) for income taxes (38 %) (18 %) Benefit (provision) for income taxes 22 % * Net loss attributable to common stockholders (16 %) (18 %) _____________________________________________ * Less than 0.5% of revenue. ** Columns may not add up to 100% due to rounding. Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 Change (Dollars in thousands) Base Revenue $ 220,885 117,507 $ 103,378 88% Variable Revenue 12,254 11,609 645 6% Total Revenue $ 233,139 $ 129,116 $ 104,023 81% In the three months ended March 31, 2019 , Base Revenue increased by $103.4 million , or 88% , compared to the same period last year, and represented 95% and 91% of total revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. This increase was primarily attributable to an increase in the usage of our products, particularly our Programmable Messaging products and Programmable Voice products, the adoption of additional products by our existing customers, and revenue contribution from our acquisition of SendGrid for the period from February 1, 2019, through March 31, 2019. This increase was partially offset by pricing decreases that we have implemented over time in the form of lower usage prices, in an effort to increase the reach and scale of our platform. The changes in usage and price in the three months ended March 31, 2019 were reflected in our DollarBased Net Expansion Rate of 146% . The increase in usage was also attributable to a 187% increase in the number of Active Customer Accounts, from 53,985 as of March 31, 2018 to 154,797 as of March 31, 2019 , primarily due to our acquisition of SendGrid. In the three months ended March 31, 2019, Variable Revenue increased by $0.6 million , or 6% , compared to the same period last year, and represented 5% and 9% of total revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. This increase was primarily attributable to the increase in the usage of products by our existing Variable Customer Accounts. U.S. revenue and international revenue represented $166.6 million or 71% , and $66.6 million , or 29% , respectively, of total revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2019 , compared to $98.6 million , or 76% , and $30.5 million , or 24% , respectively, of total revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2018 . The increase in international revenue was attributable 39 Table of Contents to the growth in usage of our products, particularly our Programmable Messaging products and Programmable Voice products, by our existing international Active Customer Accounts; a 242% increase in the number of international Active Customer Accounts driven in part by our focus on expanding our sales to customers outside of the United States; and revenue contribution from our acquisition of SendGrid for the period from February 1, 2019, through March 31, 2019. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 Change (Dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 107,089 $ 59,582 $ 47,507 80% Gross margin 54 % 54 % In the three months ended March 31, 2019 , cost of revenue increased by $47.5 million , or 80% , compared to the same period last year. The increase in cost of revenue was primarily attributable to a $30.7 million increase in network service providers costs, a $7.9 million increase in amortization expense primarily related to the acquired intangible assets and a $3.9 million increase in cloud infrastructure fees, both to support the growth in usage of our products, and a . In the three months ended March 31, 2019 , gross margin percentage remained stable compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 . An increasing mix of international product usage, an increase in network service provider fees in certain geographies and an increase in amortization expense related to acquired intangible assets were largely offset by operational improvements and product mix. Operating Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 Change (Dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 77,855 $ 37,576 $ 40,279 107% Sales and marketing 71,607 32,822 38,785 118% General and administrative 64,176 23,393 40,783 174% Total operating expenses $ 213,638 $ 93,791 $ 119,847 128% In the three months ended March 31, 2019 , research and development expenses increased by $40.3 million , or 107% , compared to the same period last year. The increase was primarily attributable to a $33.4 million increase in personnel costs, net of a $1.3 million increase in capitalized software development costs, largely as a result of a 66% average increase in our research and development headcount, including the impact of growth in headcount as a result of our SendGrid acquisition, as we continued to focus on enhancing our existing products and introducing new products, as well as enhancing product management and other technical functions. The increase was also due to a $2.4 million increase in facilities expense to accommodate the growth in our headcount, a $0.6 million increase in cloud infrastructure fees to support the staging and development of our products, and a $0.6 million increase in outsourced engineering services. In addition, the three months ended March 31, 2019, included research and development expenses from our acquired Twilio SendGrid business from February 1, 2019, through the end of the period. In the three months ended March 31, 2019 , sales and marketing expenses increased by $38.8 million , or 118% , compared to the same period last year. The increase was primarily attributable to a $21.4 million increase in personnel costs, largely as a result of a 86% average increase in sales and marketing headcount, including the impact of growth in headcount as a result of our acquisition of SendGrid, as we continued to expand our sales efforts in the United States and internationally, a $4.8 million increase in amortization expense attributed mainly to acquired intangible assets, a $3.2 million increase in advertising expenses, a $2.5 million increase in facilities expense, a $1.2 million increase in credit card fees due to increased transaction volumes and a $0.6 million increase in the expenses related to our brand awareness programs. In addition, the three months ended March 31, 2019, included sales and market expenses from the acquired Twilio SendGrid business from February 1, 2019, through the end of the period. 40 Table of Contents In the three months ended March 31, 2019 , general and administrative expenses increased by $40.8 million , or 174% , compared to the same period last year. The increase was primarily attributable to a $21.3 million increase in personnel costs, largely as a result of a 80% average increase in general and administrative headcount, including the impact of growth in headcount as a result of our acquisition of SendGrid, to support the growth of our business domestically and internationally, a $12.6 million increase in professional expenses specifically related to our business acquisitions as described in Note 6 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10Q and a $1.7 million increase in facilities related expenses. In addition, the three months ended March 31, 2019, included general and administrative expenses from the acquired Twilio SendGrid business from February 1, 2019, through the end of the period. Liquidity and Capital Resources To date, our principal sources of liquidity have been (i) the net proceeds of $155.5 million and $64.4 million, net of underwriting discounts and offering expenses, from our initial public offering in June 2016 and our followon public offering in October 2016, respectively; (ii) the net proceeds we received through private sales of equity securities; (iii) the net proceeds of approximately $537.0 million, after deducting purchaser discounts and debt issuance costs paid by us, from issuance of the Notes, as described in Note 9 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q; and (iv) the payments received from customers using our products. From our inception through March 31, 2016, we completed several rounds of equity financing through the sale of our convertible preferred stock for total net proceeds of $237.1 million. We believe that our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances, as well as the cash flows generated by our operations will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. However, our belief may prove to be incorrect, and we could utilize our available financial resources sooner than we currently expect. Our future capital requirements and the adequacy of available funds will depend on many factors, including those set forth in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing in order to meet these future capital requirements. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 Cash (used in) provided by operating activities $ (9,113 ) $ 16,936 Cash used in investing activities (130,201 ) (20,940 ) Cash provided by financing activities 12,811 6,307 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 148 Net (decrease) increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (126,503 ) $ 2,451 Cash Flows from Operating Activities In the three months ended March 31, 2019 , cash used in operating activities consisted primarily of our net loss of $36.5 million adjusted for non-cash items, including $58.3 million of stock-based compensation expense, $51.6 million of tax benefit related to our acquisition of SendGrid, $21.2 million of depreciation and amortization expense, $5.8 million amortization of the debt discount and issuance costs related to our Notes and $10.8 million of cumulative changes in operating assets and liabilities. With respect to changes in operating assets and liabilities, accounts payable and other current liabilities increased $5.5 million primarily due to increases in transaction volumes. Deferred revenue and customer deposits increased $0.4 million due to increases in transaction volumes and timing of customer prepayments. Accounts receivable and prepaid expenses increased $9.7 million primarily due to the timing of cash receipts from certain of our larger customers, pre-payments for cloud infrastructure fees and certain operating expenses. 41 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Investing Activities In the three months ended March 31, 2019 , cash used in investing activities was $130.2 million primarily consisting of $279.0 million of purchases of marketable securities, net of maturities and sales, $156.8 million of cash acquired through a business combination as described in Note 6 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, $5.4 million related to capitalized software development costs, and $2.7 million in purchases of property and equipment. Cash Flows from Financing Activities In the three months ended March 31, 2019 , cash provided by financing activities was $12.8 million primarily consisting of $15.3 million proceeds from stock options exercised by our employees. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America. The preparation of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. We believe that the accounting policies, assumptions and estimates associated with revenue recognition, business combinations, stock-based compensation and capitalization of our internal-use software development costs have the greatest potential impact on our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Therefore, we consider these to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. Business Combinations Accounting for business combinations requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially at the acquisition date with respect to tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed. We use our best estimates and assumptions to accurately assign fair value to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date as well as the useful lives of those acquired intangible assets. Examples of critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets and goodwill we have acquired include but are not limited to future expected cash flows from acquired developed technologies; the acquired companys trade name and existing customer relationships, as well as assumptions about the period of time the acquired trade name will continue to be used in our offerings; uncertain tax positions and tax related valuation allowances assumed; and discount rates. Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur that may affect the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates or actual results. Recently Issued Accounting Guidance See Note 2 of the notes to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a summary of recently issued and not yet adopted accounting pronouncements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have not entered into any off-balance sheet arrangements and do not have any holdings in variable interest entities. Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments Our principal commitments consist of obligations under our operating leases for office space and contractual commitments to our cloud infrastructure and network service providers. In the three months ended March 31, 2019 , we entered into a 24 month non-cancelable agreement with a cloud services vendor for a total commitment of $1.4 million . Additionally, as a result of our acquisition of SendGrid, we assumed a non-cancelable cloud services vendor contract with a remaining value of $22.4 million and a remaining term of three years. 42 Table of Contents