Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in this Annual Report. We may make forward-looking statements from time to time, both written and oral. We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially from those projected in any such forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. Declining general economic conditions and uncertainties in the global credit crisis and equity markets may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The financial market crisis has continued to disrupt credit and equity markets worldwide. Local and state governments may face financial pressures that could in turn affect our growth rate in 2010. We cannot assure you local and state spending levels will be unaffected by the global credit crisis and if budget shortfalls occur they may negatively impact local and state information technology spending and could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results, and financial condition. A decline in information technology spending may result in a decrease in our revenues or lower our growth rate. A decline in the demand for information technology among our current and prospective customers may result in decreased revenues or a lower growth rate for us because our sales depend, in part, on our customers level of funding for new or additional information technology systems and services. Moreover, demand for our solutions may be reduced by a decline in overall demand for computer software and services. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to increase or maintain our revenues. 10 Table of Contents Selling products and services into the public sector poses unique challenges. We derive substantially all of our revenues from sales of software and services to state, county and city governments, other municipal agencies, and other public entities. We expect that sales to public sector customers will continue to account for substantially all of our revenues in the future. We face many risks and challenges associated with contracting with governmental entities, including: the sales cycle of governmental agencies may be complex and lengthy; payments under some public sector contracts are subject to achieving implementation milestones, and we have had, and may in the future have, differences with customers as to whether milestones have been achieved; political resistance to the concept of government agencies contracting with third parties to provide information technology solutions; changes in legislation authorizing governments contracting with third parties; the internal review process by governmental agencies for bid acceptance; changes to the bidding procedures by governmental agencies; changes in governmental administrations and personnel; limitations on governmental resources placed by budgetary restraints, which in some circumstances, may provide for a termination of executed contracts because of a lack of future funding; and the general effect of economic downturns and other changes on local governments ability to spend public funds on outsourcing arrangements. Each of these risks is outside our control. If we fail to adequately adapt to these risks and uncertainties, our financial performance could be adversely affected. The open bidding process for governmental contracts creates uncertainty in predicting future contract awards. Many governmental agencies purchase products and services through an open bidding process. Generally, a governmental entity will publish an established list of requirements requesting potential vendors to propose solutions for the established requirements. To respond successfully to these requests for proposals, we must accurately estimate our cost structure for servicing a proposed contract, the time required to establish operations for the proposed client, and the likely terms of any other third party proposals submitted. We cannot guarantee that we will win any bids in the future through the request for proposal process, or that any winning bids will ultimately result in contracts on favorable terms. Our failure to secure contracts through the open bidding process, or to secure such contracts on favorable terms, may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our products are complex and we run the risk of errors or defects with new product introductions or enhancements. Software products as complex as those developed by us may contain errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Although we have not experienced material adverse effects resulting from any such defects or errors to date, we cannot assure you that material defects and errors will not be found after commencement of product shipments. Any such defects could result in loss of revenues or delay market acceptance. Our license agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential liability claims. It is possible, however, that we may not always be able to negotiate such provisions in our contracts with customers or that the limitation of liability provisions contained in our license agreements may not be effective as a result of existing or future federal, state or local laws, ordinances, or judicial decisions. Although we maintain errors and omissions and general liability insurance, and we try to structure our contracts to include limitations on liability, we cannot assure you that a successful claim could not be made or would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may experience difficulties in executing our acquisition strategy. In addition, a significant portion of our growth has resulted from strategic acquisitions in new product and geographic markets. Although our focus is on internal growth, we will continue to identify and pursue strategic acquisitions and alliances with suitable candidates. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully integrate future acquisitions and other strategic alliances into our operations. Acquisitions may involve a number of special risks, including diversion of managements attention, failure to retain key acquired personnel, unanticipated events or circumstances, legal liabilities, and amortization of certain acquired intangible assets. Some or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of 11 Table of Contents operations. Although we conduct due diligence reviews of potential acquisition candidates, we may not identify all material liabilities or risks related to acquisition candidates. There can be no assurance that any such strategic acquisitions or alliances will be accomplished on favorable terms or will result in profitable operations. We face significant competition from other vendors and potential new entrants into our markets. We believe we are a leading provider of integrated solutions for the public sector. However, we face competition from a variety of software vendors that offer products and services similar to those offered by us, as well as from companies offering to develop custom software. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including: the attractiveness of the business strategy and services we offer; the breadth of products and services we offer; features and functionality of our software; price; quality of products and service; technological innovation; name recognition; our ability to modify existing products and services to accommodate the particular needs of our customers; and our financial strength and stability. We believe the market is highly fragmented with a large number of competitors that vary in size, primary computer platforms, and overall product scope. Our competitors include consulting firms, publicly held companies that focus on selected segments of the public sector market, and a significant number of smaller, privately held companies. Certain competitors have greater technical, marketing, and financial resources than we do. We cannot assure you that such competitors will not develop products or offer services that are superior to our products or services or that achieve greater market acceptance. We also compete with internal, centralized information service departments of governmental entities, which require us to persuade the end-user to stop the internal service and outsource to us. In addition, our customers may elect in the future to provide information management services internally through new or existing departments, which could reduce the market for our services. We could face additional competition as other established and emerging companies enter the public sector software application market and new products and technologies are introduced. Increased competition could result in pricing pressure, fewer customer orders, reduced gross margins, and loss of market share. In addition, current and potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third-parties, thereby increasing the ability of their products to address the needs of our prospective customers. It is possible that new competitors or alliances among current and new competitors may emerge and rapidly gain significant market share. Further, competitive pressures could require us to reduce the price of our software licenses and related services. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors, and the failure to do so would have material adverse effect upon our business, operating results, and financial condition. We must respond to rapid technological changes to be competitive. The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards in computer hardware and software technology, changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. The introduction of products embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. As a result, our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to continue to enhance existing products and develop and introduce in a timely manner or acquire new products that keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer requirements, and achieve market acceptance. We cannot assure you that we will successfully identify new product opportunities and develop and bring new products to market in a timely and cost-effective manner. Further, we cannot assure you that the products, capabilities, or technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. If we are unable to develop or acquire on a timely and cost-effective basis new software products or enhancements to existing products, or if such new products or enhancements do not achieve market acceptance, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents We may be unable to hire, integrate, and retain qualified personnel. Our continued success will depend upon the availability and performance of our key management, sales, marketing, customer support, and product development personnel. The loss of key management or technical personnel could adversely affect us. We believe that our continued success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract, integrate, and retain such personnel. We have at times experienced and continue to experience difficulty in recruiting qualified personnel. Competition for qualified software development, sales, and other personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations, and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new Securities and Exchange Commission regulations and New York Stock Exchange rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. The costs required to comply with such evolving laws are difficult to predict. To maintain high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards. This investment may result in an unforeseen increase in general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities, which may harm our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We may experience fluctuations in quarterly revenue that could adversely impact our stock price and our operating results. Our actual revenues in a quarter could fall below expectations, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. Our revenues and operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter. Revenues from license fees in any quarter depend substantially upon our contracting activity and our ability to recognize revenues in that quarter in accordance with our revenue recognition policies. Our quarterly revenue may fluctuate and may be difficult to forecast for a variety of reasons, including the following: a significant number of our prospective customers decisions regarding whether to enter into license agreements with us may be made within the last few weeks of each quarter; the size of license transactions can vary significantly; customers may unexpectedly postpone or cancel orders due to changes in their strategic priorities, project objectives, budget or personnel; customer purchasing processes vary significantly and a customers internal approval, expenditure authorization and contract negotiation processes can be difficult and time consuming to complete, even after selection of a vendor; the number, timing, and significance of software product enhancements and new software product announcements by us and our competitors may affect purchase decisions; and we may have to defer revenues under our revenue recognition policies. Fluctuation in our quarterly revenues may adversely affect our operating results. In each fiscal quarter our expense levels, operating costs, and hiring plans are based to some extent on projections of future revenues and are relatively fixed. If our actual revenues fall below expectations, we could experience a reduction in operating results. As with other software vendors, we may be required to delay revenue recognition into future periods, which could adversely impact our operating results. We have in the past had to, and in the future may have to, defer revenue recognition for license fees due to several factors, including whether: license agreements include applications that are under development or other undelivered elements; we must deliver services that are considered essential to the functionality of the software, including significant modifications, customization, or complex interfaces, which could delay product delivery or acceptance; the transaction involves acceptance criteria; the transaction involves contingent payment terms or fees; we are required to accept a fixed-fee services contract; or we are required to accept extended payment terms. 13 Table of Contents Because of the factors listed above and other specific requirements under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States for software revenue recognition, we must have very precise terms in our license agreements in order to recognize revenue when we initially deliver and install software or perform services. Negotiation of mutually acceptable terms and conditions can extend the sales cycle, and sometimes we do not obtain terms and conditions that permit revenue recognition at the time of delivery or even as work on the project is completed. Increases in service revenue as a percentage of total revenues could decrease overall margins and adversely affect our operating results. We realize lower margins on software and appraisal service revenues than on license revenue. The majority of our contracts include both software licenses and professional services. Therefore, an increase in the percentage of software service and appraisal service revenue compared to license revenue could have a detrimental impact on our overall gross margins and could adversely affect operating results. Fixed- price contracts may affect our profits. Some of our present contracts are on a fixed-priced basis, which can lead to various risks, including: the failure to accurately estimate the resources and time required for an engagement; the failure to effectively manage governmental agencies and other customers expectations regarding the scope of services to be delivered for an estimated price; and the failure to timely complete fixed-price engagements within budget to the customers satisfaction. If we do not adequately assess these and other risks, we may be subject to cost overruns and penalties, which may harm our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Our failure to properly manage growth could adversely affect our business. We have expanded our operations since February 1998, when we entered the business of providing software solutions and services to the public sector. We intend to continue expansion in the foreseeable future to pursue existing and potential market opportunities. This growth places a significant demand on management and operational resources. In order to manage growth effectively, we must implement and improve our operational systems, procedures, and controls on a timely basis. We must also identify, hire, train, and manage key managerial and technical personnel. If we fail to implement these systems or employ and retain such qualified personnel, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We may be unable to protect our proprietary rights. Many of our product and service offerings incorporate proprietary information, trade secrets, know-how, and other intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of contracts, copyrights, and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our technology. We cannot be certain that we have taken all appropriate steps to deter misappropriation of our intellectual property. In addition, there has been significant litigation in the United States in recent years involving intellectual property rights. We are not currently involved in any material intellectual property litigation. We may, however, be a party to intellectual property litigation in the future to protect our proprietary information, trade secrets, know-how, and other intellectual property rights. Further, we cannot assure you that third parties will not assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us in the future with respect to current or future products. Any claims or litigation, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and result in costly litigation and diversion of managements attention. Further, any claims and litigation could cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements. Such royalty or licensing arrangements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Thus, litigation to defend and enforce our intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, regardless of the final outcome of such litigation. 14 Table of Contents Changes in the insurance markets may affect our ability to win some contract awards and may lead to increased expenses. Some of our customers, primarily those for our property appraisal services, require that we secure performance bonds before they will select us as their vendor. The number of qualified, high-rated insurance companies that offer performance bonds has decreased in recent years, while the costs associated with securing these bonds has increased dramatically. In addition, we are generally required to issue a letter of credit as security for the issuance of a performance bond. We periodically enter into long-term borrowing agreements and each letter of credit we issue without corresponding cash collateral may reduce our borrowing capacity under the borrowing agreement. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to secure such performance bonds in the future on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. Our inability to obtain performance bonds on favorable terms or at all could impact our future ability to win some contract awards, particularly large property appraisal services contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Recent volatility in the stock markets, increasing shareholder litigation, the adoption of expansive legislation that redefines corporate controls (in particular, legislation adopted to prevent future corporate and accounting scandals), as well as other factors have recently led to significant increases in premiums for directors and officers liability insurance. The number of insurers offering directors and officers insurance at competitive rates has also decreased in recent years. Volatility of the insurance market may result in future increases in our general and administrative expenses, which may adversely affect future operating results. Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock may be volatile and may be significantly affected by many different factors. Some examples of factors that can have a significant impact on our stock price include: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; announcements of technological innovations, new products, or new contracts by us or our competitors; developments with respect to patents, copyrights, or other proprietary rights; conditions and trends in the software and other technology industries; adoption of new accounting standards affecting the software industry; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; and general market conditions and other factors. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices for the common stock of technology companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular companys securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. We cannot assure you that similar litigation will not occur in the future with respect to us. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of managements attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results, and financial condition. Historically, we have not paid dividends on our common stock. We have not declared or paid a cash dividend since we entered the business of providing software solutions and services to the public sector in February 1998. Additionally, our bank credit agreement contains restrictions on the payment of cash dividends. We intend to retain earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, and Delaware law could deter takeover attempts. Our board of directors may issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock and may determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions, including voting and conversion rights, of these shares of preferred stock. These determinations may be made without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. In addition, some provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, and of the Delaware General Corporation Law could also delay, prevent, or make more difficult a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving us. 15 Table of Contents Financial Outlook. From time to time in press releases and otherwise, we may publish forecasts or other forward-looking statements regarding our results, including estimated revenues or net earnings. Any forecast of our future performance reflects various assumptions. These assumptions are subject to significant uncertainties, and as a matter of course, any number of them may prove to be incorrect. Further, the achievement of any forecast depends on numerous risks and other factors (including those described in this discussion), many of which are beyond our control. As a result, we cannot be certain that our performance will be consistent with any management forecasts or that the variation from such forecasts will not be material and adverse. Current and potential stockholders are cautioned not to base their entire analysis of our business and prospects upon isolated predictions, but instead are encouraged to utilize our entire publicly available mix of historical and forward-looking information, as well as other available information regarding us, our products and services, and the software industry when evaluating our prospective results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES. We occupy a total of approximately 514,330 square feet of office space, 201,507 square feet of which we own. One of the office buildings we own (approximately 84,000 square feet) has been leased to third-party tenants. The lease agreements with respect to approximately 70% of this leased space expire in July 2011 and the remaining agreement expires in June 2013. Upon expiration of these agreements we expect to begin occupying the facility. We lease our principal executive office located in Dallas, Texas, as well as other offices for our operations in Colorado, Iowa, Maine, Ohio, Texas and Washington. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. On November 3, 2008, a putative collective action complaint was filed against us in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas (the Court) on behalf of current and former telephone and remote customer support personnel (Category 1), computer hardware and software set up and maintenance personnel (Category 2), implementation personnel (Category 3), sales support personnel (Category 4), and quality assurance analysts (Category 5). The petition alleges that we misclassified these groups of employees as exempt rather than non-exempt under the Fair Labor Standards Act and that we therefore failed to properly pay overtime wages. The suit was initiated by six former employees working out of our Longview, Texas, office and seeks to recover damages in the form of lost overtime pay, liquidated damages equal to the amount of lost overtime pay, interest, costs, and attorneys fees. On June 23, 2009, the Court issued an Order granting Plaintiffs motion for conditional certification for the purpose of providing notice to potential plaintiffs about the litigation. Accordingly, the plaintiffs sent the court ordered notice to all current and former employees who worked in the foregoing job classifications at any time from June 23, 2006 until June 23, 2009. On October 26, 2009, the opt in period for plaintiffs and potential plaintiffs closed. There are a total of 78 plaintiffs in the litigation consisting of the following: 31 in Category 1; 4 in Category 2; 39 in Category 3; 2 in Category 4; and 2 in Category 5. Other than ordinary course, routine litigation incidental to our business and except as described in this Annual Report, there are no material legal proceedings pending to which we are party or to which any of our properties are subject. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS. Not applicable. 16 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol TYL. At December 31, 2009, we had approximately 2,115 stockholders of record. A number of our stockholders hold their shares in street name; therefore, there are substantially more than 2,115 beneficial owners of our common stock. The following table shows, for the calendar periods indicated, the high and low sales price per share of our common stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange. High Low 2008: First Quarter $ 14.70 $ 12.29 Second Quarter 15.97 13.33 Third Quarter 18.47 13.29 Fourth Quarter 15.17 9.79 2009: First Quarter $ 14.79 $ 11.35 Second Quarter 17.76 14.17 Third Quarter 17.62 14.51 Fourth Quarter 21.09 16.76 2010: First Quarter (through February 22, 2010) $ 21.52 $ 18.32 We did not pay any cash dividends in 2009 or 2008. Our bank credit agreement contains restrictions on the payment of cash dividends. We intend to retain earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business, and, therefore, we do not anticipate declaring a cash dividend in the foreseeable future. The following table summarizes certain information related to our stock option plan and our Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). There are no warrants or rights related to our equity compensation plans as of December 31, 2009. Number of securities remaining Number of securities to be Weighted average available for future issuance issued upon exercise of exercise price of under equity compensation outstanding options, outstanding plans (excluding securities warrants and rights as of options, warrants reflected in initial column as of Plan Category December 31, 2009 and rights December 31, 2009) Equity compensation plans approved by security shareholders: Stock options 5,703,430 $ 11.12 176,378 ESPP 25,072 16.92 341,306 Equity compensation plans not approved by security shareholders 5,728,502 $ 11.15 517,684 17 Table of Contents During 2009, we purchased approximately $1.2 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $17.0 million. A summary of the repurchase activity during 2009 is as follows: Additional Maximum number of number of shares shares that may be Total number authorized that Average repurchased of shares may be price paid under current Period repurchased repurchased per share authorization Three months ended March 31 707,000 $ 12.49 791,000 Additional authorization by the board of directors 2,000,000 2,791,000 Three months ended June 30 8,000 15.28 2,783,000 Three months ended September 30 520,000 15.49 2,263,000 October 1 through October 31 2,263,000 November 1 through November 30 2,263,000 December 1 through December 31 2,263,000 Total year ended December 31, 2009 1,235,000 2,000,000 $ 13.77 The repurchase program, which was approved by our board of directors, was announced in October 2002, and was amended in April and July 2003, October 2004, October 2005, May 2007, May 2008, October 2008 and May 2009. Our board of directors authorized the repurchase of an additional 2.0 million shares on May 14, 2009. As of December 31, 2009, we had remaining authorization to repurchase up to 2.3 million additional shares of our common stock. There is no expiration date specified for the authorization and we intend to repurchase stock under the plan from time to time. Our bank credit agreement contains restrictions on the amount of common stock we may purchase. 18 Table of Contents Performance Graph The following Performance Graph and related information shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each as amended, except to the extent that we specifically incorporate it by reference into such filing. The following table compares total Shareholder returns for Tyler over the last five years to the Standard and Poors 500 Stock Index and the Standard and Poors 600 Information Technology Index assuming a $100 investment made on December 31, 2004. Each of the three measures of cumulative total return assumes reinvestment of dividends. The stock performance shown on the graph below is not necessarily indicative of future price performance. Company / Index 12/31/04 12/31/05 12/31/06 12/31/07 12/31/08 12/31/09 Tyler Technologies, Inc. 100 105.02 168.18 154.19 143.30 238.16 S&P 500 Index 100 104.91 121.48 128.16 80.74 102.11 S&P 600 Information Technology Index 100 99.76 109.17 119.32 71.15 105.41 19 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA. (In thousands, except per share data) FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS DATA: Revenues $ 290,286 $ 265,101 $ 219,796 $ 195,303 $ 170,457 Costs and expenses: Cost of revenues (1) 161,523 155,314 135,371 120,499 108,970 Selling, general and administrative expenses (1) 70,115 62,923 51,724 48,389 43,821 Research and development expense 11,159 7,286 4,443 3,322 2,421 Restructuring charge 1,260 Amortization of customer and trade name intangibles 2,705 2,438 1,478 1,318 1,266 Non-cash legal settlement related to warrants (2) 9,045 Operating income 44,784 28,095 26,780 21,775 12,719 Other (expense) income, net (146 ) 1,181 1,800 1,080 906 Income from operations before income taxes 44,638 29,276 28,580 22,855 13,625 Income tax provision 17,628 14,414 11,079 8,493 5,432 Net income $ 27,010 $ 14,862 $ 17,501 $ 14,362 $ 8,193 Net income per diluted share $ 0.74 $ 0.38 $ 0.42 $ 0.34 $ 0.19 Weighted average diluted shares 36,624 39,184 41,352 41,868 42,075 STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS DATA: Cash flows provided by operating activities $ 42,941 $ 47,802 $ 34,111 $ 26,804 $ 21,187 Cash flows (used by) provided by investing activities (13,658 ) (9,554 ) (34,275 ) (24,326 ) 1,820 Cash flows used by financing activities (21,349 ) (46,128 ) (7,406 ) (5,999 ) (14,847 ) BALANCE SHEET DATA: Total assets $ 270,670 $ 251,761 $ 241,508 $ 220,276 $ 194,437 Shareholders equity 134,358 114,262 137,211 125,875 112,197 (1) Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted the fair value recognition provisions of Accounting Standards Codification 718, Stock Compensation, using the modified-prospective method. In 2009, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, cost of revenues included $540,000, $364,000, $227,000 and $147,000 share-based compensation expense. Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2009, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, included $4.5 million, $3.5 million, $2.1 million and $1.8 million share-based compensation expense. In accordance with the standard, results of operations for the year 2005 are reported under the previous accounting standard and no expense was recorded. (2) On June 27, 2008, we settled outstanding litigation related to two Stock Purchase Warrants (the Warrants) owned by Bank of America, N. A. (BANA). The Warrants entitled BANA to acquire 1.6 million shares of Tyler common stock at an exercise price of $2.50 per share. Following court-ordered mediation, in July 2008, BANA paid us $2.0 million and we issued to BANA 801,883 restricted shares of Tyler common stock. Accordingly, we recorded a non-cash legal settlement related to warrants charge of $9.0 million, which was not tax deductible. 20 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that are not historical in nature and typically address future or anticipated events, trends, expectations or beliefs with respect to our financial condition, results of operations or business. Forward-looking statements often contain words such as believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates, plans, intends, continues, may, will, should, projects, might, could or other similar words or phrases. Similarly, statements that describe our business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. We believe there is a reasonable basis for our forward-looking statements, but they are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results could differ materially from the expectations and beliefs reflected in the forward-looking statements. We presently consider the following to be among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and beliefs: (1) economic, political and market conditions, including the recent global economic and financial crisis, and the general tightening of access to debt or equity capital; (2) our ability to achieve our financial forecasts due to various factors, including project delays by our customers, reductions in transaction size, fewer transactions, delays in delivery of new products or releases or a decline in our renewal rates for service agreements; (3) changes in the budgets or regulatory environments of our customers, primarily local and state governments, that could negatively impact information technology spending; (4) technological and market risks associated with the development of new products or services or of new versions of existing or acquired products or services; (5) our ability to successfully complete acquisitions and achieve growth or operational synergies through the integration of acquired businesses, while avoiding unanticipated costs and disruptions to existing operations; (6) competition in the industry in which we conduct business and the impact of competition on pricing, customer retention and pressure for new products or services; (7) the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel and dealing with the loss or retirement of key members of management or other key personnel; and (8) costs of compliance and any failure to comply with government and stock exchange regulations. A detailed discussion of these factors and other risks that affect our business are described in Item 1A, Risk Factors. We expressly disclaim any obligation to publicly update or revise our forward-looking statements. OVERVIEW General We provide integrated information management solutions and services for the public sector, with a focus on local governments. We develop and market a broad line of software products and services to address the information technology (IT) needs of cities, counties, schools and other local government entities. In addition, we provide professional IT services to our customers, including software and hardware installation, data conversion, training and for certain customers, product modifications, along with continuing maintenance and support for customers using our systems. We also provide subscription-based services such as hosted solutions as well as property appraisal outsourcing services for taxing jurisdictions. Our products generally automate three major functional areas: Financial Management and Education; Courts and Justice; and Property Appraisal and Tax and Other. We monitor and analyze several key performance indicators in order to manage our business and evaluate our financial and operating performance. These indicators include the following: Revenues We derive our revenues from five primary sources: sale of software licenses; subscription-based services; software services; maintenance and support; and appraisal services. Because the majority of the software we sell is off-the-shelf, increased sales of software products generally result in incrementally higher gross margins. Thus, the most significant driver to our business is the number and size of software license sales. In addition, new software license sales generally generate implementation services revenues as well as future maintenance and support revenues, which are a recurring revenue source. We also monitor our customer base and churn since our maintenance and support revenue should increase 21 Table of Contents due to our historically low customer turnover. During 2009, approximately 43% of our revenue was attributable to ongoing support and maintenance agreements and our customer turnover was approximately 2%. Cost of Revenues and Gross Margins Our primary cost component is personnel expenses in connection with providing software implementation, subscription-based services, maintenance and support, and appraisal services to our customers. We can improve gross margins by controlling headcount and related costs and by expanding our revenue base, especially from those products and services that produce incremental revenue with minimal incremental cost, such as software licenses, subscription-based services, and maintenance and support. Our appraisal projects are seasonal in nature, and we often employ appraisal personnel on a short-term basis to coincide with the life of a project. As of December 31, 2009, our total employee count increased to 2,018 from 1,940 at December 31, 2008. Approximately a third of these additions were to our implementation and support staff, including additions that increased our capacity to deliver our backlog. Selling, General and Administrative (SG&A) Expenses The primary components of SG&A expense are administrative and sales personnel salaries and commissions, marketing expense, share-based compensation expense, rent and professional fees. Sales commissions generally fluctuate with revenues but other administrative expenses tend to grow at a slower rate than revenues. Liquidity and Cash Flows The primary driver of our cash flows is net income. Uses of cash include acquisitions, capital investments in property and equipment and the discretionary purchases of treasury stock. In 2009, we purchased 1.2 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $17.0 million. We also paid $1.3 million for common stock repurchases accrued as of December 31, 2008. During 2009 we used cash of $2.9 million to acquire two companies and invested $12.4 million in property and equipment. Our investment in property and equipment included $9.4 million for an office building and we expect to pay the final retainage payment of $1.8 million for this office building by mid-2010. We also paid-down $8.0 million on our short-term revolving line of credit. Our working capital needs are fairly stable throughout the year with the significant components of cash outflows being payment of personnel expenses offset by cash inflows representing collection of accounts receivable and cash receipts from customers in advance of revenue being earned. Balance Sheet Cash, accounts receivable and days sales outstanding and deferred revenue balances are important indicators of our business. Acquisitions On July 16, 2009, we completed the acquisition of certain assets of KPL, Inc. d/b/a Parker-Lowe & Associates (Parker-Lowe) for $700,000 in cash. Parker-Lowe provides scanning and retrieval software and related services for land record and social services offices in local governments primarily in the North Carolina area. This acquisition was accounted for as a purchase of a business. On April 3, 2009, we completed the acquisition of all of the capital stock of Assessment Evaluation Services, Inc. (AES). AES develops integrated property appraisal solutions and specializes in applications that deal with the unique provisions of the California Revenue and Taxation Code. The purchase price was approximately $1.1 million in cash. In connection with these transactions we acquired total tangible assets of approximately $480,000 and assumed total liabilities of approximately $835,000, including $450,000 for contingent consideration for which we have paid $38,000 as of December 31, 2009. We recorded goodwill of approximately $1.3 million, all of which is expected to be deductible for tax purposes, and other intangible assets of approximately $820,000. The $820,000 of intangible assets is attributable to acquired software and customer relationships that will be amortized over a weighted average period of approximately 9 years. Our balance sheet as of December 31, 2009 reflects the allocation of the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values at the dates of acquisition. The operating results of these acquisitions are included in our results of operations since the date of acquisition. We believe these acquisitions will complement our business by expanding our presence in certain geographic areas and adding to our customer base. In the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, we also paid approximately $1.1 million for certain software assets to complement our tax and appraisal solutions and our student information management solutions. Outlook The financial market crisis has continued to disrupt credit and equity markets worldwide. Broad economic conditions remain uncertain and public sector entities continue to experience pressures that are reflected in longer than normal decision processes. Local and state governments may face financial pressures that could in turn affect our growth rate in the first quarter of 2010 and for the calendar year. While market conditions are not robust, we have great stability from the foundation of recurring revenues and high customer retention. Our base of recurring revenues from maintenance and support and subscription-based services is approximately 22 Table of Contents 49% of total revenues. Consistent with our historical trends, we expect that first quarter 2010 earnings will not reach the level achieved in the fourth quarter of 2009, and will likely be below last years first quarter earnings. We also expect that in excess of 60% of our annual earnings will occur in the second half of 2010. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, the reported amounts of revenues, cost of revenues and expenses during the reporting period, and related disclosure of contingencies. The Notes to the Financial Statements included as part of this Annual Report describe our significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the financial statements. Significant items subject to such estimates and assumptions include the application of the percentage-of-completion and proportionate performance methods of revenue recognition, the carrying amount and estimated useful lives of intangible assets, determination of share-based compensation expense and valuation allowance for receivables. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies require significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements. Revenue Recognition . We recognize revenues in accordance with the provisions of Accounting Standards Codification ( ASC) 605, Revenue Recognition and ASC 985-605, Software Revenue Recognition. Our revenues are derived from sales of software licenses, subscription-based services, appraisal services, maintenance and support, and services that typically range from installation, training and basic consulting to software modification and customization to meet specific customer needs. For multiple element software arrangements, which do not entail the performance of services that are considered essential to the functionality of the software, we generally record revenue when the delivered products or performed services result in a legally enforceable and non-refundable claim. We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts and sales adjustments, which are provided at the time the revenue is recognized. Because most of our customers are governmental entities, we rarely incur a loss resulting from the inability of a customer to make required payments. In a limited number of cases, we encounter a customer who is dissatisfied with some aspect of the software product or our service, and we may offer a concession to such customer. In those limited situations where we grant a concession, we rarely reduce the contract arrangement fee, but alternatively may perform additional services, such as additional training or programming a minor feature the customer had in their prior software solution. These amounts have historically been nominal. In connection with our customer contracts and the adequacy of related allowances and measures of progress towards contract completion, our project managers are charged with the responsibility to continually review the status of each customer on a specific contract basis. Also, we review, on at least a quarterly basis, significant past due accounts receivable and the adequacy of related reserves. Events or changes in circumstances that indicate that the carrying amount for the allowances for doubtful accounts and sales adjustments may require revision, include, but are not limited to, deterioration of a customers financial condition, failure to manage our customers expectations regarding the scope of the services to be delivered, and defects or errors in new versions or enhancements of our software products. We use contract accounting, primarily the percentage-of-completion method, as discussed in ASC 605-35, Construction Type and Certain Production Type Contracts, for those software arrangements that involve significant production, modification or customization of the software, or where our software services are otherwise considered essential to the functionality of the software. We measure progress-to-completion primarily using labor hours incurred, or value added. In addition, we recognize revenue using the proportionate performance method of revenue recognition for our property appraisal projects, some of which can range up to five years. These methods rely on estimates of total expected contract revenue, billings and collections and expected contract costs, as well as measures of progress toward completion. We believe reasonably dependable estimates of revenue and costs and progress applicable to various stages of a contract can be made. At times, we perform additional and/or non-contractual services for little to no incremental fee to satisfy customer expectations. If changes occur in delivery, productivity or other factors used in developing our estimates of expected costs or revenues, we revise our cost and revenue estimates, and any revisions are charged to income in the period in which the facts that give rise to that revision first become known. In connection with these and certain other contracts, we may perform the work prior to when the services are billable and/or payable pursuant to the contract. The termination clauses in most of our contracts provide for the payment for the fair value of products delivered and services performed in the event of an early termination. 23 Table of Contents For subscription-based services such as application service provider arrangements and other hosting arrangements, we evaluate whether each of the elements in these arrangements represents a separate unit of accounting, as defined by ASC 605-25, Multiple Element Arrangements, using all applicable facts and circumstances, including whether (i) we sell or could readily sell the element unaccompanied by the other elements, (ii) the element has stand-alone value to the customer, (iii) there is objective reliable evidence of the fair value of the undelivered item, and (iv) there is a general right of return. We consider the applicability of ASC 605-55-121 and 122 with respect to arrangements that include the right to use software stored on another entitys hardware on a contract-by-contract basis. In hosted term-based agreements, where the customer does not have the contractual right to take possession of the software, hosting fees are recognized on a monthly basis over the term of the contract commencing when the customer has access to the software. For professional services associated with hosting arrangements that we determine do not have stand-alone value to the customer, we recognize the services revenue ratably over the remaining contractual period once hosting has gone live and we may begin billing for the hosting services. We record amounts that have been invoiced in accounts receivable and in deferred revenue or revenues, depending on whether the revenue recognition criteria have been met. In connection with certain of our contracts, we have recorded retentions receivable or unbilled receivables consisting of costs and estimated profit in excess of billings as of the balance sheet date. Many of the contracts which give rise to unbilled receivables at a given balance sheet date are subject to billings in the subsequent accounting period. Management reviews unbilled receivables and related contract provisions to ensure we are justified in recognizing revenue prior to billing the customer and that we have objective evidence which allows us to recognize such revenue. In addition, we have a sizable amount of deferred revenue which represents billings in excess of revenue earned. The majority of this liability consists of maintenance billings for which payments are made in advance and the revenue is ratably earned over the maintenance period, generally one year. We also have deferred revenue for those contracts in which we receive a deposit and the conditions in which to record revenue for the service or product has not been met. On a periodic basis, we review by customer the detail components of our deferred revenue to ensure our accounting remains appropriate. Intangible Assets and Goodwill . Our business acquisitions typically result in the creation of goodwill and other intangible asset balances, and these balances affect the amount and timing of future period amortization expense, as well as expense we could possibly incur as a result of an impairment charge. The cost of acquired companies is allocated to identifiable tangible and intangible assets based on estimated fair value, with the excess allocated to goodwill. Accordingly, we have a significant balance of acquisition date intangible assets, including software, customer related intangibles, trade name and goodwill. In addition, we capitalize software development costs incurred subsequent to the establishment of technological feasibility. These intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. All intangible assets with definite and indefinite lives are reviewed for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of goodwill is generally measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to its fair value, generally determined by estimated future net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually as of April, or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. An impairment loss is recognized to the extent that the carrying amount exceeds the assets fair value. The fair values calculated in our impairment tests are determined using discounted cash flow models involving several assumptions. These assumptions include, but are not limited to, anticipated operating income growth rates, our long-term anticipated operating income growth rate and the discount rate. Our cash flow forecasts are based on assumptions that are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses. The assumptions that are used are based upon what we believe a hypothetical marketplace participant would use in estimating fair value. We have identified two reporting units for impairment testing. Our reporting units are the same as our reportable segments and consistent with the reporting units tested for impairment in prior years. Assets, liabilities and goodwill have been assigned to reporting units based on assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the date of acquisition. We evaluate the reasonableness of the fair value calculations of our reporting units by comparing the total of the fair value of all of our reporting units to our total market capitalization. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Recoverability of other intangible assets is generally measured by comparison of the carrying amount to estimated undiscounted future cash flows. The assessment of recoverability or of the estimated useful life for amortization purposes will be affected if the timing or the amount of estimated future operating cash flows is not achieved. Such indicators may include, among others: a significant decline in expected future cash flows; a sustained, significant decline in stock price and market capitalization; a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate; unanticipated competition; and reductions in growth rates. In addition, products, capabilities, or technologies developed by others may render our software products obsolete or non-competitive. Any adverse change in these factors could have a significant impact on the recoverability of goodwill or other intangible assets. Our annual goodwill impairment analysis, which we performed during the second quarter of 2009, did not result in an impairment charge. During 2009 we did not identify any triggering events which would require an update to our annual impairment. A 24 Table of Contents hypothetical 10% decrease in the fair value of either of our reporting units as of December 31, 2009 would have had no impact on the carrying value of our goodwill. Share-Based Compensation. We have a stock option plan that provides for the grant of stock options to key employees, directors and non-employee consultants. We estimate the fair value of share-based awards on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option valuation model. Share-based compensation expense includes the estimated effects of forfeitures, which will be adjusted over the requisite service period to the extent actual forfeitures differ, or are expected to differ from such estimates. Changes in estimated forfeitures are recognized in the period of change and will also impact the amount of expense to be recognized in future periods. Forfeiture rate assumptions are derived from historical data. We estimate stock price volatility at the date of grant based on the historical volatility of our common stock. Estimated option life is determined using the simplified method in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 110. Determining the appropriate fair-value model and calculating the fair value of share-based awards at the grant date requires considerable judgment, including estimating stock price volatility, expected option life and forfeiture rates. ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND OTHER The following discussion compares the historical results of operations on a basis consistent with GAAP for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. 2009 Compared to 2008 Revenues The following table sets forth a comparison of the key components of our revenues for the following years ended December 31: % of % of Change ($in thousands) 2009 Total 2008 Total $ % Software licenses $ 42,131 15 % $ 41,490 16 % $ 641 2 % Subscriptions 17,181 6 14,374 5 2,807 20 Software services 80,405 28 74,997 28 5,408 7 Maintenance 124,512 43 107,458 41 17,054 16 Appraisal services 18,740 6 19,098 7 (358 ) (2 ) Hardware and other 7,317 2 7,684 3 (367 ) (5 ) Total revenues $ 290,286 100 % $ 265,101 100 % $ 25,185 10 % Software licenses . Software license revenues consist of the following components for the following years ended December 31: % of % of Change ($in thousands) 2009 Total 2008 Total $ % Financial management and education $ 25,708 61 % $ 29,124 70 % $ (3,416 ) (12) % Courts and justice 13,801 33 10,128 24 3,673 36 Appraisal and tax and other 2,622 6 2,238 6 384 17 Total software license revenues $ 42,131 100 % $ 41,490 100 % $ 641 2 % In 2009 we signed 74 large new contracts with average software license fees of approximately $307,000, compared to 72 large new contracts signed in 2008 with average software license fees of approximately $311,000. We consider contracts with a license fee component of $100,000 or more to be large. Although a contract is signed in a particular year, the year in which the revenue is recognized may be different because we recognize revenue according to our revenue recognition policy as described in Note 1 in the Notes to Financial Statements. Changes in software license revenues consist of the following components: Software license revenue related to our financial management and education solutions declined $3.4 million compared to the prior year. We acquired several student information and financial management solutions for K-12 schools from January through August 2008. Excluding the impact of these acquisitions software license revenue would have declined $4.3 million. The decline was due to several factors. In 2009 our sales cycle to negotiate and close contracts which have reached the 25 Table of Contents request for proposal phase lengthened slightly mainly due to budgetary constraints related to declining economic conditions. As a result the purchasing processes for some of our customers have been extended to include more approval and documentation requirements. The software installation period for most of our financial management and education solutions is relatively short and delays in the timing of signing new contracts will impact our results in the short term. In addition, a few contracts have included requirements to construct interfaces to existing systems or other essential functionality which results in recognizing revenue over a longer period of time. While we expect to continue to experience longer than normal sales cycles in 2010 and continued weakness through mid-2010, we currently expect financial management and education solutions software license revenues for 2010 to be slightly higher than 2009. Software license revenue related to our courts and justice software solutions increased $3.7 million in 2009 compared to 2008. Both 2009 and 2008 included approximately $1.7 million of revenue from contracts which had been deferred in accordance with the terms of these contracts. Courts and justice software license revenues were higher in 2009 due to contract arrangements that included more software license revenue than in the comparable prior year periods, slight price increases and improved installation processes as our primary courts and justice solution matures. In addition approximately $1.0 million of the increase related to achieving certain milestones for several contracts. We do not expect similar large adjustments to courts and justice software solutions revenue in 2010 due to recognition of revenue previously deferred in accordance with contract language. Therefore we currently expect courts and justice software solutions software license revenue in 2010 to increase at a much slower rate compared to 2009. Subscriptions. Subscription-based services revenue primarily consists of revenues derived from application service provider (ASP) arrangements and other hosted service offerings, software subscriptions and disaster recovery services. ASP and other software subscription agreements are typically for periods of three to six years and automatically renew unless either party cancels the agreement. Disaster recovery and miscellaneous other hosted service agreements are typically renewable annually. New customers for ASP and other hosted service offerings as well as existing customers who converted to our ASP model provided the majority of the subscription revenue increase with the remaining increase due to slightly higher rates for disaster recovery services. In June 2008, as a result of changes in its technology organization, one customer terminated its ASP arrangement with us and elected, as provided in the ASP contract, to purchase the software instead. This contract contributed approximately $450,000 of subscription revenue in each of the first two quarters of 2008. Software services . Changes in software services revenues consist of the following components: Software services revenue related to financial management and education solutions, which comprise approximately 60% of our software services revenue in the periods presented, increased 5% compared to 2008. We acquired several student information and financial management solutions for K-12 schools from January through August 2008. Excluding the impact of these acquisitions, software services revenue increased 3%, which was mainly due to additions to our implementation and support staff as well as leverage in the utilization of our implementation and support staff. Software services revenue related to courts and justice solutions comprise approximately 30% of our software services revenues in the periods presented and increased 21% compared to 2008. These increases reflect our increased capacity to deliver backlog following additions to our implementation and support staff and slightly higher rates on some arrangements. Also, increased contract volume in our municipal courts software solutions, primarily in Texas, generated higher related services revenue. Maintenance . We provide maintenance and support services for our software products and third party software. Maintenance revenues increased 16% in 2009 compared to 2008. Maintenance and support services grew 14% in 2009, excluding the impact of acquisitions. This increase was due to growth in our installed customer base and slightly higher maintenance rates on most of our product lines. Appraisal services . Appraisal services revenue declined 2% in 2009 compared to 2008. The appraisal services business is somewhat cyclical and driven in part by statutory revaluation cycles in various states. We substantially completed several large appraisal projects mid-2009. We began several new revaluation contracts late 2009 and as a result currently expect appraisal revenues to increase slightly in 2010. 26 Table of Contents Cost of Revenues and Gross Margins The following table sets forth a comparison of the key components of our cost of revenues and those components stated as a percentage of related revenues for the following years ended December 31: % of % of related related Change ($in thousands) 2009 revenues 2008 revenues $ % Software licenses $ 5,440 13 % $ 9,224 22 % $ (3,784 ) (41) % Acquired software 1,411 3 1,799 4 (388 ) (22 ) Software services, maintenance and subscriptions 137,199 62 126,247 64 10,952 9 Appraisal services 11,518 61 12,251 64 (733 ) (6 ) Hardware and other 5,955 81 5,793 75 162 3 Total cost of revenues $ 161,523 56 % $ 155,314 59 % $ 6,209 4 % The following table sets forth a comparison of gross margin percentage by revenue type for the periods presented for the following years ended December 31: Gross margin percentages 2009 2008 Change Software licenses and acquired software 83.7 % 73.4 % 10.3 % Software services, maintenance and subscriptions 38.2 35.9 2.3 Appraisal services 38.5 35.9 2.6 Hardware and other 18.6 24.6 (6.0 ) Overall gross margin 44.4 % 41.4 % 3.0 % Software license and acquired software . Amortization expense for capitalized development costs on certain software products comprised approximately 15% of our cost of software license revenues in 2009 compared to approximately 50% of our cost of software license in 2008. The remaining balance is made up of third party software costs. Once a product is released, we begin to amortize, over the estimated useful life of the product, any capitalized costs associated with its development. Amortization expense is determined on a product-by-product basis at an annual rate not less than straight-line basis over the products estimated life, which is generally five years. Development costs consist mainly of personnel costs, such as salary and benefits paid to our developers, and rent for related office space. Cost of acquired software includes amortization expense for software acquired through acquisitions. We completed several acquisitions in the period 2007 through 2009 and these costs are being amortized over a weighted average period of approximately 5 years. In late 2008 software associated with one significant acquisition completed in December 2003 became fully amortized. In 2009, our software license gross margin percentage rose significantly compared to the prior year periods because several products became fully amortized in late 2008, as did software acquired related to a significant acquisition in December 2003. We did not capitalize any internal software development costs in 2009 or 2008. Software services, maintenance and subscription-based services . Cost of software services, maintenance and subscriptions primarily consists of personnel costs related to installation of our software, conversion of customer data, training customer personnel and support activities and various other services such as ASP and disaster recovery. In 2009, the software services, maintenance and subscriptions gross margin increased compared to the prior year partly because maintenance and various other services such as ASP and disaster recovery costs typically grow at a slower rate than related revenues due to leverage in the utilization of our support and maintenance staff and economies of scale. We have increased our implementation and support staff for both the financial management and education solutions and courts and justice solutions by 51 employees since 2008 in order to expand our capacity to implement our contract backlog. This increase was offset somewhat by 24 fewer employees for appraisal and tax solutions. The 27 Table of Contents software services, maintenance and subscription-based services gross margin also benefited from slightly higher rates for certain services. Appraisal services . Our appraisal gross margin increased compared to 2008 as the result of cost savings and operational efficiencies experienced on an unusually complex project. A high proportion of the costs of appraisal services revenue are variable, as we often hire temporary employees to assist in appraisal projects whose term of employment generally ends with the projects completion. Our blended gross margin for 2009 was higher than 2008 due to lower amortization expense of software development costs described above. The gross margin also benefited from leverage in the utilization of our support and maintenance staff and economies of scale and slightly higher rates on certain services. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses consist primarily of salaries, employee benefits, travel, share-based compensation expense, commissions and related overhead costs for administrative and sales and marketing employees as well as, professional fees, trade show activities, advertising costs and other marketing related costs. The following table sets forth a comparison of our SG&A expenses for the following years ended December 31: % of % of Change ($in thousands) 2009 revenues 2008 revenues $ % Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 70,115 24 % $ 62,923 24 % $ 7,192 11 % The increase in SG&A expenses included higher share-based compensation expense, commission costs and marketing expenses. Marketing expenses in 2009 include costs associated with the launch of a new corporate branding initiative. Our SG&A employee count increased 4% from 2008. Research and Development Expense Research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries, employee benefits and related overhead costs associated with product development and enhancements and upgrades provided to existing customers under maintenance plans. The following table sets forth a comparison of our research and development expense for the following years ended December 31: % of % of Change ($in thousands) 2009 revenues 2008 revenues $ % Research and development expense $ 11,159 4 % $ 7,286 3 % $ 3,873 53 % Research and development expense consist mainly of costs associated with the Microsoft Dynamics AX project, in addition to costs associated with other new product development efforts. We have increased our research and development staff by 72 employees since 2008. In January 2007, we entered into a Software Development and License Agreement, which provided for a strategic alliance with Microsoft Corporation (Microsoft) to jointly develop core public sector functionality for Microsoft Dynamics AX to address the accounting needs of public sector organizations worldwide. In September 2007, Tyler and Microsoft signed an amendment to the Software Development and License Agreement, which grants Microsoft intellectual property rights in and to certain portions of the software code provided and developed by Tyler into Microsoft Dynamics AX products to be marketed and sold outside of the public sector in exchange for reimbursement payments to partially offset the research and development costs. In 2009 and 2008, we offset our research and development expense by $3.5 million and $1.8 million, respectively, which were the amounts earned under the terms of our agreement with Microsoft. In September 2008, Tyler and Microsoft signed a statement of work under the Amended Software Development and License Agreement for which we currently expect to recognize offsets to our research and development expense by approximately $850,000 each quarter through the end of 2010. In addition, in October 2009, the scope of the project was further expanded that will result in additional offsets to research and development expense, varying in amount from quarter to quarter, with the first payment to be invoiced on August 31, 2010 and invoiced quarterly through March 31, 2012 for a total of approximately $6.2 million. The actual amount and timing of future research and development costs and related reimbursements and whether they are capitalized or expensed may vary. 28 Table of Contents Non-Cash Legal Settlement Related to Warrants On June 27, 2008, we settled outstanding litigation related to the Warrants owned by Bank of America, N. A. ( BANA). As disclosed in prior SEC filings, the Warrants entitled BANA to acquire 1.6 million shares of Tyler common stock at an exercise price of $2.50 per share. Following court-ordered mediation, in July 2008, BANA paid us $2.0 million and we issued to BANA 801,883 restricted shares of Tyler common stock. Accordingly, we recorded a non-cash legal settlement related to warrants charge of $9.0 million, which was not tax deductible. Amortization of Customer and Trade Name Intangibles Acquisition intangibles are comprised of the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net tangible assets acquired that is allocated to acquired software and customer and trade name intangibles. The remaining excess purchase price is allocated to goodwill that is not subject to amortization. Amortization expense related to acquired software is included with cost of revenues, while amortization expense of customer and trade name intangibles is recorded as other operating expense. The estimated useful lives of both customer and trade name intangibles are 5 to 25 years. The following table sets forth a comparison of amortization of customer and trade name intangibles for the following years ended December 31: Change ($in thousands) 2009 2008 $ % Amortization of customer and trade name intangibles $ 2,705 $ 2,438 $ 267 11 % In 2009 we completed several acquisitions and purchased certain software assets to complement our tax and appraisal solutions and our student information management solutions. These transactions increased amortizable customer and trade name intangibles by approximately $625,000. This amount will be amortized over approximately 10 years. Estimated annual amortization expense relating to customer and trade name acquisition intangibles, excluding acquired software for which the amortization expense is recorded as cost of revenues, for the next five years is as follows (in thousands): 2010 $ 2,654 2011 2,638 2012 2,586 2013 2,427 2014 2,426 Other Other (expense) income in 2009 and 2008 includes non-usage and other fees associated with a credit agreement entered into in October 2008. Other income in 2008 also included $1.1 million of interest income which declined due to significantly lower invested cash balances in 2009. Our invested cash balances declined due to purchases of treasury stock and investments in office facilities in late 2008 and 2009. Income Tax Provision The following table sets forth a comparison of our income tax provision for the following years ended December 31: Change ($in thousands) 2009 2008 $ % Income tax provision $ 17,628 $ 14,414 $ 3,214 22 % Effective income tax rate 39.5 % 49.2 % Our effective income tax rate declined compared to 2008 mainly due to a non-cash legal settlement related to warrants charge of $9.0 million in 2008, which was not deductible. In addition to the impact of the non-deductible non-cash legal settlement charge in 2008, 29 Table of Contents the effective income tax rate for both years were different from the statutory United States federal income tax rate of 35% due to state income taxes, non-deductible share-based compensation expense, the qualified manufacturing activities deduction, and non-deductible meals and entertainment costs. Approximately 40% of our stock option awards qualify as incentive stock options (ISOs) for income tax purposes. As such, a tax benefit is not recorded at the time the compensation cost related to the options is recorded for book purposes due to the fact that an ISO does not ordinarily result in a tax benefit unless there is a disqualifying disposition. Non-qualified stock options result in the creation of a deferred tax asset, which is a temporary difference, until the time that the option is exercised. Due to the treatment of ISOs for tax purposes, our effective tax rate from year to year is subject to variability. 2008 Compared to 2007 Revenues The following table sets forth a comparison of the key components of our revenues for the following years ended December 31: % of % of Change ($in thousands) 2008 Total 2007 Total $ % Software licenses $ 41,490 16 % $ 35,063 16 % $ 6,427 18 % Subscriptions 14,374 5 10,406 5 3,968 38 Software services 74,997 28 60,283 27 14,714 24 Maintenance 107,458 41 85,411 39 22,047 26 Appraisal services 19,098 7 21,318 10 (2,220 ) (10 ) Hardware and other 7,684 3 7,315 3 369 5 Total revenues $ 265,101 100 % $ 219,796 100 % $ 45,305 21 % Software licenses . Software license revenues consist of the following components for the following years ended December 31: % of % of Change ($in thousands) 2008 Total 2007 Total $ % Financial management and education $ 29,124 70 % $ 27,236 78 % $ 1,888 7 % Courts and justice 10,128 24 5,987 17 4,141 69 Appraisal and tax and other 2,238 6 1,840 5 398 22 Total software license revenues $ 41,490 100 % $ 35,063 100 % $ 6,427 18 % Changes in software license revenues consist of the following components: Software license revenue related to our financial management and education solutions for 2008 increased 7% compared to the prior year. Revenue from student information management solutions as well as student transportation management solutions acquired in the last twelve months contributed substantially to the increase. The remaining increase was mainly due to contract arrangements that included more software license revenue than in the past. Software license revenue related to our courts and justice software solutions increased 69% for 2008 compared to the prior year. New statewide contracts in Indiana and New Mexico contributed approximately two-thirds of the increase. The remaining increase was primarily due to an expanded presence in the markets for municipal courts software solutions and public safety software solutions. Subscriptions. New ASP customers and existing customers converting to ASP arrangements provided the majority of the subscription revenue increase with the remaining increase due to new disaster recovery customers and slightly higher rates for disaster recovery services. 30 Table of Contents Software services . Changes in software services revenues consist of the following components: Software services revenue related to financial management and education solutions, which comprises slightly more than half of our software services revenue in the years presented, increased substantially compared to 2007. This increase was driven in part by increased capacity to deliver backlog following additions to our implementation and support staff since 2007 and due to larger and more complex contracts, which include more programming and project management services. In addition, we acquired a student transportation management solution in January 2008 which contributed approximately $3.9 million to software service revenues in 2008. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, we added approximately 95 employees to our financial management and education implementation and training staff during 2008. Software services revenue related to our courts and justice solutions experienced strong increases compared to 2007, reflecting increased capacity to deliver backlog following additions to our implementation and support staff since mid-2007. In addition, increased contract volume for municipal courts software solutions and public safety software solutions also generated higher related services revenue. We added approximately 12 employees to our courts and justice implementation and training staff during 2008. Maintenance . Maintenance revenues increased 26% in 2008 compared to 2007. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, maintenance and support services grew 16% in 2008. This increase was due to growth in our installed customer base and slightly higher maintenance rates on most of our product lines. Appraisal services . Appraisal services revenue declined 10% in 2008 compared to 2007. In late 2007, we substantially completed several projects related to the Ohio revaluation cycle, which occurs every six years, as well as a few other large contracts. Appraisal revenues for the first six months of 2008 were down 23% compared to the first six months of 2007. In mid-2008 we began a complete reappraisal of real property in Orleans Parish, Louisiana. As a result of this contract and an overall increase in contract volume, appraisal revenues for the last six months of 2008 increased 4% over the last six months of 2007. 31 Table of Contents Cost of Revenues and Gross Margins The following table sets forth a comparison of the key components of our cost of revenues and those components stated as a percentage of related revenues for the following years ended December 31: % of % of related related Change ($in thousands) 2008 revenues 2007 revenues $ % Software licenses $ 9,224 22 % $ 7,953 23 % $ 1,271 16 % Acquired software 1,799 4 2,279 7 (480 ) (21 ) Software services, maintenance and subscriptions 126,247 64 104,993 67 21,254 20 Appraisal services 12,251 64 14,467 68 (2,216 ) (15 ) Hardware and other 5,793 75 5,679 78 114 2 Total cost of revenues $ 155,314 59 % $ 135,371 62 % $ 19,943 15 % The following table sets forth a comparison of gross margin percentage by revenue type for the periods presented for the following years ended December 31: Gross margin percentages 2008 2007 Change Software licenses and acquired software 73.4 % 70.8 % 2.6 % Software services, maintenance and subscriptions 35.9 32.7 3.2 Appraisal services 35.9 32.1 3.8 Hardware and other 24.6 22.4 2.2 Overall gross margin 41.4 % 38.4 % 3.0 % Software license . In 2008, our software license gross margin percentage rose compared to the prior year mainly due to strong license fee revenue increases. Because approximately one-half of our cost of software license revenues in both periods is comprised of amortization of capitalized development costs, increased license fee revenues inherently result in higher gross margins. Software services, maintenance and subscription-based services . In 2008, the software services, maintenance and subscriptions gross margin increased compared to the prior year partly because maintenance and various other services such as ASP and disaster recovery costs typically grow at a slower rate than related revenues due to leverage in the utilization of our support and maintenance staff and economies of scale. We have increased our implementation and support staff by 215 employees during 2008 in order to expand our capacity to implement our contract backlog. This increase includes 102 employees related to acquisitions completed in 2008. Appraisal services . Our appraisal gross margin for 2008 is higher than the prior year due to cost savings associated with a significant complex reappraisal project. Our blended gross margin in 2008 was higher than the prior year in large part due to leverage in the utilization of our support and maintenance staff and economies of scale, with resulting increases in gross margin for each revenue category. 32 Table of Contents Selling, General and Administrative Expenses The following table sets forth a comparison of our SG&A expenses for the following years ended December 31: % of % of Change ($in thousands) 2008 revenues 2007 revenues $ % Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 62,923 24 % $ 51,724 24 % $ 11,199 22 % Excluding the impact of acquisitions, our SG&A employee count increased 9% during 2008. Research and Development Expense The following table sets forth a comparison of our research and development expense for the following years ended December 31: % of % of Change ($in thousands) 2008 revenues 2007 revenues $ % Research and development expense $ 7,286 3 % $ 4,443 2 % $ 2,843 64 % Research and development expense consist mainly of costs associated with the Microsoft Dynamics AX project, in addition to costs associated with other new product development efforts. In 2008 and 2007, we offset our research and development expense by $1.8 million and $1.6 million, respectively, which were the amounts earned under the terms of our research and development agreement with Microsoft. Non-Cash Legal Settlement Related to Warrants On June 27, 2008, we settled outstanding litigation related to the Warrants owned by BANA. The Warrants entitled BANA to acquire 1.6 million shares of Tyler common stock at an exercise price of $2.50 per share. Following court-ordered mediation, in July 2008, BANA paid us $2.0 million and we issued to BANA 801,883 restricted shares of Tyler common stock. Accordingly, we recorded a non-cash legal settlement related to warrants charge of $9.0 million, which was not tax deductible. Amortization of Customer and Trade Name Intangibles The following table sets forth a comparison of amortization of customer and trade name intangibles for the following years ended December 31: Change ($in thousands) 2008 2007 $ % Amortization of customer and trade name intangibles $ 2,438 $ 1,478 $ 960 65 % In 2008, we completed three acquisitions, which increased amortizable customer and trade name intangibles by $12.3 million. Other Interest income was the main component of other income in both 2008 and 2007. Other income in 2008 also includes non-usage and other fees associated with a credit agreement entered into in October 2008. Interest income in 2008 was $1.1 million compared to $1.8 million in 2007. Interest income declined due to lower invested cash balances and slightly lower interest rates. Our invested cash balances declined due to purchases of treasury stock and investments in office facilities in 2008. 33 Table of Contents Income Tax Provision The following table sets forth a comparison of our income tax provision for the following years ended December 31: Change ($in thousands) 2008 2007 $ % Income Tax Provision $ 14,414 $ 11,079 $ 3,335 30 % Effective income tax rate 49.2 % 38.8 % Our effective income tax rate increased approximately twelve points compared to the prior year due to a non-cash legal settlement related to warrants charge of $9.0 million, which was not deductible. The effective income tax rates were different from the statutory United States federal income tax rate of 35% primarily due to non-cash legal settlement related to warrants charge which was not deductible, as well as state income taxes, non-deductible share-based compensation expense, the qualified manufacturing activities deduction, and non-deductible meals and entertainment costs. BUSINESS SEGMENT DISCUSSION Enterprise Software Solutions 2009 % change 2008 % change 2007 Revenue $ 250,059 11 % $ 225,887 24 % $ 182,065 Gross Margin $ 114,309 $ 97,214 $ 71,684 Gross Margin percentage 46 % 43 % 39 % Segment Operating Income $ 55,639 17 % $ 47,698 37 % $ 34,833 In 2009 software license revenues were flat compared to 2008. Growth in recurring revenues from subscription-based services and maintenance experienced a 14% increase, excluding the impact of acquisitions, and was the primary factor for the increase in overall revenue and segment operating income for the Enterprise Software Solutions segment. This increase was due to growth in our installed customer base and slightly higher maintenance rates on most of our product lines. New customers for ASP and other hosted service offerings as well as existing customers converting to ASP arrangements and slightly higher rates for disaster recovery services also contributed to this increase. The gross margin and segment operating income rose in 2009 due to lower amortization expense of software development costs. The gross margin and segment operating income also benefited from leverage in the utilization of our support and maintenance staff and economies of scale and slightly higher rates on certain services. In 2008 software license revenues were 18% higher than 2007 mainly due to higher courts and justice contract volume as a result of an expanded presence in Indiana and New Mexico. 2008 software license revenue also benefitted from student information management solutions and transportation solutions acquired in early 2008. Excluding the impact of acquisitions in 2008, revenues from subscription-based arrangements and maintenance grew by 19% compared to 2007 primarily due to growth in our customer base. Our gross margin and segment operating income in 2008 was higher than 2007 in large part due to leverage in the utilization of our support and maintenance staff and economies of scale and higher software license revenues. Appraisal and Tax Software Solutions and Services 2009 % change 2008 % change 2007 Revenue $ 40,776 5 % $ 38,868 1 % $ 38,649 Gross Margin $ 15,489 $ 13,231 $ 12,966 Gross Margin percentage 38 % 34 % 34 % Segment Operating Income $ 6,949 28 % $ 5,448 8 % $ 5,040 In 2009 overall revenues for the Appraisal and Tax Software Solutions and Services segment increased compared to 2008 mainly due to a 16% increase in subscription-based arrangements and maintenance due to growth in our customer base and slightly higher rates. Excluding the results of acquisitions, subscription-based arrangements and maintenance increased 15% compared to 2008. This 34 Table of Contents increase was offset slightly by 2% lower appraisal services. The appraisal services business is somewhat cyclical and driven in part by scheduled revaluation cycles in various states. We substantially completed several large appraisal projects mid-2009. Our appraisal gross margin and segment operating income increased compared to 2008 as the result of cost savings and operational efficiencies experienced on an unusually complex appraisal project. A high proportion of the costs of appraisal services revenue are variable, as we often hire temporary employees to assist in appraisal projects whose term of employment generally ends with the projects completion. Overall appraisal and tax revenues in 2008 were flat compared to 2007. Although maintenance revenues increased 8%, appraisal services revenues declined 10%. In late 2007, we substantially completed several appraisal projects related to the Ohio revaluation cycle, which occurs every six years, as well as a few other large contracts. The gross margin for 2008 was flat compared to 2007 due to cost savings associated with a significant complex reappraisal project which offset declines from lower contract volume. FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY As of December 31, 2009, we had cash and cash equivalents (including restricted cash equivalents) of $15.7 million and current and non-current investments of $2.0 million, compared to cash and cash equivalents (including restricted cash equivalents) of $6.8 million and current and non-current investments of $4.6 million at December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2009, we had no outstanding borrowings and outstanding letters of credit totaling $7.3 million to secure surety bonds required by some of our customer contracts. These letters of credit expire through mid-2010. The following table sets forth a summary of cash flows for the years ended December 31: ($in thousands) 2009 2008 2007 Cash flows provided by (used by): Operating activities $ 42,941 $ 47,802 $ 34,111 Investing activities (13,658 ) (9,554 ) (34,275 ) Financing activities (21,349 ) (46,128 ) (7,406 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 7,934 $ (7,880 ) $ (7,570 ) Net cash provided by operating activities continues to be our primary source of funds to finance operating needs and capital expenditures. Other capital resources include cash on hand, public and private issuances of debt and equity securities, and bank borrowings. The capital and credit markets have become more volatile and tightened as a result of adverse conditions that have caused the failure and near failure of a number of large financial services companies. It is possible that our ability to access the capital and credit markets may be limited by these or other factors. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we believe that cash provided by operating activities, cash on hand and our revolving credit agreement are sufficient to fund our working capital requirements, capital expenditures, income tax obligations, and share repurchases for the foreseeable future. In 2009, operating activities provided net cash of $42.9 million, primarily generated from net income of $27.0 million, non-cash depreciation and amortization charges of $9.5 million, non-cash share-based compensation expense of $5.0 million and a decrease in working capital of $2.7 million offset slightly by a $1.7 million decrease related to deferred income taxes. Working capital declined due to higher accounts payable and accrued liabilities pertaining to timing of payments on vendor invoices and income tax liabilities and an accrued liability of $1.8 million for a retention payment related to construction of an office building. Other sources of working capital were deferred revenue related to December maintenance billings and a decrease in prepaid expenses. These working capital declines were offset somewhat by an increase in annual software maintenance billings as a result of growth in our installed customer base. The increase in accounts receivable was offset slightly by the collection of several large customer billings, one of which had been outstanding for over twelve months. Cash flows provided by operating activities in 2008 included several advance payments from customers. In general, changes in the balance of deferred revenue are cyclical and primarily driven by the timing of our maintenance renewal billings. Our renewal dates occur throughout the year but our heaviest renewal cycles occur in the second and fourth quarters. Non-current investments available-for-sale consist of two auction rate municipal securities (ARS) which are collateralized debt obligations supported by municipal and state agencies and do not include mortgage-backed securities. Short-term investments 35 Table of Contents available-for-sale consists of the portion of one of these ARS which was partially redeemed at par during the period January 1, 2010 through February 22, 2010. These ARS are debt instruments with stated maturities ranging from 22 to 33 years, for which the interest rate is designed to be reset through Dutch auctions approximately every 30 days. However, due to events in the credit markets, auctions for these securities have not occurred since February 2008. Both of our ARS have had very small partial redemptions at par in the period from July 2009 through February 2010. As of December 31, 2009 we have continued to earn and collect interest on both of our ARS. Because quoted prices in active markets are no longer available we determined the estimated fair values of these securities utilizing a discounted trinomial model. The model considers the probability of three potential occurrences for each auction event through the maturity date of each ARS. The three potential outcomes for each auction are (i) successful auction/early redemption, (ii) failed auction and (iii) issuer default. Inputs in determining the probabilities of the potential outcomes include but are not limited to, the securities collateral, credit rating, insurance, issuers financial standing, contractual restrictions on disposition and the liquidity in the market. The fair value of each ARS is determined by summing the present value of the probability-weighted future principal and interest payments determined by the model. Since there can be no assurances that auctions for these securities will be successful in the near future, we have classified our ARS as non-current investments. In association with this estimate of fair value, we have recorded an after-tax temporary unrealized loss on our non-current ARS of $18,000, net of related tax effects of $10,000 in 2009, which is included in accumulated other comprehensive loss on our balance sheet. The unrealized loss includes the impact of adjusting previously recorded unrealized losses of approximately $120,000, net of related tax effects of $65,000 as of December 31, 2008 for several ARS which were subsequently redeemed for $2.5 million at par during 2009. We consider the impairment in our ARS as temporary because we do not have the intent to sell, nor is it more-likely-than-not that we will be required to sell these securities before recovery of their cost basis. We believe that this temporary decline in fair value is due entirely to liquidity issues, because the underlying assets of these securities are supported by municipal and state agencies and do not include mortgage-backed securities, have redemption features which call for redemption at 100% of par value and have a current credit rating of A or AAA. The ratings on the ARS take into account credit support through insurance policies guaranteeing each of the bonds payment of principal and accrued interest, if it becomes necessary. In addition, both ARS have had very small partial redemptions at par in the period July 2009 through February 2010. Based on our cash and cash equivalents balance of $15.7 million and expected operating cash flows, we do not believe a lack of liquidity associated with our ARS will adversely affect our ability to conduct business, and believe we have the ability to hold the securities throughout the currently estimated recovery period. We will continue to evaluate any changes in the market value of our ARS and in the future, depending upon existing market conditions, we may be required to record an other-than-temporary decline in market value. At December 31, 2009, our days sales outstanding (DSOs) were 98 days compared to DSOs of 99 days at December 31, 2008. DSOs are calculated based on accounts receivable (excluding long-term receivables, but including unbilled receivables) divided by the quotient of annualized quarterly revenues divided by 360 days. Investing activities used cash of $13.7 million in 2009 compared to $9.6 million in 2008. In connection with plans to consolidate our workforce and support planned long-term growth, we paid $9.4 million for construction of an office building and expect to pay the final retainage of $1.8 million by mid-2010. We also liquidated $2.5 million of investments in ARS for cash at par. In 2009 we completed the acquisition of all of the capital stock of Assessment Evaluation Services, Inc. for $1.1 million in cash, paid $700,000 in cash for certain assets of KPL, Inc. d/b/a Parker-Lowe & Associates and acquired various software assets for $1.1 million in cash. Capital expenditures and acquisitions were funded from cash generated from operations. In 2008, we liquidated $36.4 million of ARS investments for cash at par, and we completed the acquisitions of School Information Systems, Inc., VersaTrans Solutions Inc. and certain assets of Olympia Computing Company, Inc. d/b/a Schoolmaster to expand our presence in the education market. The combined purchase price, excluding cash acquired and including transaction costs, was approximately $23.9 million in cash and approximately 196,000 shares of Tyler common stock valued at $2.9 million. We paid $3.3 million, which included $2.1 million for land, for an office development. We also paid $12.7 million for an office building, land, and a related tenant lease in Yarmouth, Maine. Cash used in financing activities was primarily comprised of purchases of treasury shares, net of proceeds from stock option exercises, payments on our revolving credit line and contributions from our employee stock purchase plan. During 2009, we purchased 1.2 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $17.0 million. We also paid $1.3 million for common stock repurchases accrued as of December 31, 2008. 36 Table of Contents The repurchase program, which was approved by our board of directors, was announced in October 2002, and was amended in April and July 2003, October 2004, October 2005, May 2007, May 2008, October 2008 and May 2009. Our board of directors authorized the repurchase of an additional 2.0 million shares on May 14, 2009. As of December 31, 2009, we had remaining authorization to repurchase up to 2.3 million additional shares of our common stock. Our share repurchase program allows us to repurchase shares at our discretion and market conditions influence the timing of the buybacks and the number of shares repurchased. These share repurchases are funded using our existing cash balances as well as borrowings under our revolving credit agreement and may occur through open market purchase and transactions structured through investment banking institutions, privately negotiated transactions and/or other mechanisms. There is no expiration date specified for the authorization and we intend to repurchase stock under the plan from time to time. Our bank credit agreement contains restrictions on the amount of common stock we may purchase. During 2008, we purchased 4.3 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $59.0 million. In 2009 we issued 425,000 shares of common stock and received $2.3 million in aggregate proceeds upon exercise of stock options. In 2008 we received $1.8 million from the exercise of options to purchase approximately 379,000 shares of our common stock under our employee stock option plan and during 2007, we received $3.6 million from the exercise of options to purchase approximately 878,000 shares of our common stock under our employee stock option plan. In 2009 we received $1.5 million from contributions to the Tyler Technologies, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). In both 2008 and 2007, we received $1.2 million from contributions to the ESPP. Subsequent to December 31, 2009 and through February 22, 2010 we purchased approximately 59,000 shares of our common stock for an aggregate cash purchase price of $1.1 million. In October 2008, we entered into a revolving bank credit agreement (the Credit Facility) and a related pledge and security agreement which originally matured October 19, 2009. We amended and extended the related pledge and security agreement in October 2009. The Credit Facility matures October 18, 2010 and provides for total borrowings of up to $25.0 million and a $10.0 million Letter of Credit facility which can either be cash collateralized or issued using availability under the Credit Facility. The Credit Facility is secured by substantially all of our property. The Credit Facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios and other financial conditions and prohibits us from making certain investments, advances, cash dividends or loans, restricts the amount of our common stock we may purchase and limits incurrence of additional indebtedness and liens. As of December 31, 2009, we were in compliance with those covenants. We expect borrowings to fund discretionary purchases of our common stock or fund acquisitions. As of December 31, 2009, we had no outstanding borrowings and unused available borrowing capacity of $23.7 million under the Credit Facility. In addition, as of December 31, 2009, our bank had issued outstanding letters of credit totaling $7.3 million to secure surety bonds required by some of our customer contracts. These letters of credit have been collateralized by restricted cash balances of $6.0 million and $1.3 million of our available borrowing capacity and expire through mid-2010. We paid income taxes, net of refunds received, of $18.1 million in 2009, $15.7 million in 2008, and $8.7 million in 2007. In the first quarter of 2010 we acquired all the assets of Wiznet, Inc. (Wiznet) for a cash purchase price of $9.5 million. Wiznet provides electronic document filing solutions for courts and law offices throughout the United States and is currently integrated with our primary courts and justice solution. We have not finalized the allocation of the purchase price. Excluding acquisitions and final retainage payment of $1.8 million for an office building, we anticipate that 2010 capital spending will be between $3.7 million and $4.2 million. We expect the majority of our capital spending in 2010 will consist of computer equipment and software for infrastructure expansion. We currently do not expect to capitalize significant amounts related to software development in 2010, but the actual amount and timing of those costs, and whether they are capitalized or expensed may result in additional capitalized software development. Capital spending in 2010 is expected to be funded from existing cash balances and cash flows from operations. From time to time we engage in discussions with potential acquisition candidates. In order to pursue such opportunities, which could require significant commitments of capital, we may be required to incur debt or to issue additional potentially dilutive securities in the future. No assurance can be given as to our future acquisition opportunities and how such opportunities will be financed. We lease office facilities, as well as transportation, computer and other equipment used in our operations under non-cancelable operating lease agreements expiring at various dates through 2014. Most leases contain renewal options and some contain purchase 37 Table of Contents options. Following are the future obligations under non-cancelable leases at December 31, 2009 (in thousands): 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Total Future rental payments under operating leases $ 6,033 $ 5,265 $ 3,954 $ 2,365 $ 1,721 $ $ 19,338 As of December 31, 2009, we do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, guarantees to third parties or material purchase commitments, except for the operating lease commitments listed above. CAPITALIZATION At December 31, 2009, our capitalization consisted of $134.4 million of shareholders equity. NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS In September 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued ASU 2009-13, Multiple Element Arrangements. ASU 2009-13 addresses the determination of when the individual deliverables included in a multiple arrangement may be treated as separate units of accounting. ASU 2009-13 also modifies the manner in which the transaction consideration is allocated across separately identified deliverables and establishes definitions for determining fair value of elements in an arrangement. This new update is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010. Early adoption is allowed. The new standard may impact our application service provider arrangements to recognize revenues, such as installation and data conversion, which are generally provided at the beginning of the arrangement as incurred instead of ratably over the life of the initial hosting term. The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operation.