Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in this Annual Report. We may make forward-looking statements from time to time, both written and oral. We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially from those projected in any such forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. Risks Associated with Our Software Products Cyber-attacks and security vulnerabilities can disrupt our business and harm our competitive position. Threats to IT security can take a variety of forms. Individuals and groups of hackers, and sophisticated organizations including state-sponsored organizations, may take steps that pose threats to our clients and our IT. They may develop and deploy malicious software to attack our products and services and gain access to our networks and data centers, or act in a coordinated manner to launch distributed denial of service or other coordinated attacks. Cyber threats are constantly evolving, thereby increasing the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them. Cyber threats can have cascading impacts that unfold with increasing speed across our internal networks and systems and those of our partners and clients. Breaches of our network or data security could disrupt the security of our internal systems and business applications, impair our ability to provide services to our clients and protect the privacy of their data, result in product development delays, compromise confidential or technical business information harming our competitive position, result in theft or misuse of our intellectual property or other assets, require us to allocate more resources to improve technologies, or otherwise adversely affect our business. Our business policies and internal security controls may not keep pace with these evolving threats. Disclosure of personally identifiable information and/or other sensitive client data could result in liability and harm our reputation. We store and process increasingly large amounts of personally identifiable and other confidential information of our clients. The continued occurrence of high-profile data breaches provides evidence of an external environment increasingly hostile to information security. Despite our efforts to improve security controls, it is possible our security controls over personal data, our training of employees on data security, and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper disclosure of client data that we store and manage. Disclosure of personally identifiable information and/or other sensitive client data could result in liability and harm our reputation. Hosting services for some of our products are dependent upon the uninterrupted operation of data centers. A material portion of our business is provided through software hosting services. These hosting services depend on the uninterrupted operation of data centers and the ability to protect computer equipment and information stored in these data centers against damage that may be caused by natural disaster, fire, power loss, telecommunications or Internet failure, acts of terrorism, unauthorized intrusion, computer viruses, and other similar damaging events. If any of our data centers were to become inoperable for an extended period, we might be unable to fulfill our contractual commitments. Although we take what we believe to be reasonable precautions against such occurrences, we can give no assurance that damaging events such as these will not result in a prolonged interruption of our services, which could result in client dissatisfaction, loss of revenue, and damage to our business. We run the risk of errors or defects with new products or enhancements to existing products. Our software products are complex and may contain errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Although we have not experienced material adverse effects from any such defects or errors to date, we cannot assure you that material defects and errors will not be found in the future. Any such defects could result in a loss of revenues or delay market acceptance. Our license agreements typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential liability. However, it is possible we may not always successfully negotiate such provisions in our client contracts or the limitation of liability provisions may not be effective due to existing or future federal, state, or local laws, ordinances, or judicial decisions. Although we maintain errors and omissions and general liability insurance, and we try to structure contracts to limit liability, we cannot assure you that a successful claim could not be made or would not have a material adverse effect on our future operating results. 11 We must timely respond to technological changes to be competitive. The market for our products is characterized by technological change, evolving industry standards in software technology, changes in client requirements, and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. The introduction of products embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. As a result, our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to enhance existing products and develop and introduce new products that keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasingly sophisticated client requirements, and achieve market acceptance. We cannot assure you that we will successfully identify new product opportunities and develop and bring new products to market in a timely and cost-effective manner. The products, capabilities, or technologies developed by others could also render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. Our business may be adversely affected if we are unable to develop or acquire new software products or develop enhancements to existing products on a timely and cost-effective basis, or if such new products or enhancements do not achieve market acceptance. We may be unable to protect our proprietary rights. Many of our product and service offerings incorporate proprietary information, trade secrets, know-how, and other intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of contracts, copyrights, and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our technology. We cannot be certain that we have taken all appropriate steps to deter misappropriation of our intellectual property. There has also recently been an apparent evolution in the legal standards and regulations courts and the U.S. patent office may apply in favorably evaluating software patent rights. We are not currently involved in any material intellectual property litigation; however, we may be a party to such litigation in the future to protect our proprietary information, trade secrets, know-how, and other intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that third-parties will not assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us with respect to current or future products. Any claims or litigation, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, costly, and a diversion to management. Any such claims and litigation could also cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements. Such royalty or licensing arrangements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Therefore, litigation to defend and enforce our intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, regardless of the final outcome of such litigation. Clients may elect to terminate our maintenance contracts and manage operations internally. It is possible that our clients may elect to not renew maintenance contracts for our software, trying instead to maintain and operate the software themselves using their perpetual license rights (excluding software applications that we provide on a hosted or cloud basis). This could adversely affect our revenues and profits. Additionally, they may inadvertently allow our intellectual property or other information to fall into the hands of third-parties, including our competitors, which could adversely affect our business. Material portions of our business require the Internet infrastructure to be further developed or adequately maintained. Part of our future success depends on the use of the Internet as a means to access public information and perform transactions electronically, including, for example, electronic filing of court documents. This in part requires the further development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure. Among other things, this further development and maintenance will require a reliable network backbone with the necessary speed, data capacity, security, and timely development of complementary products for providing reliable Internet access and services. If this infrastructure fails to be further developed or be adequately maintained, our business would be harmed because users may not be able to access our government portals. 12 Risks Associated with Selling Products and Services into the Public Sector Marketplace Selling products and services into the public sector poses unique challenges. We derive substantially all of our revenues from sales of software and services to state, county, and city governments, other municipal agencies, and other public entities. We expect that sales to public sector clients will continue to account for substantially all of our revenues in the future. We face many risks and challenges associated with contracting with governmental entities, including Resource limitations caused by budgetary constraints, which may provide for a termination of executed contracts due to a lack of future funding Long and complex sales cycles Contract payments at times being subject to achieving implementation milestones, and we may have differences with clients as to whether milestones have been achieved Political resistance to the concept of contracting with third-parties to provide IT solutions Legislative changes affecting a local governments authority to contract with third-parties Varying bid procedures and internal processes for bid acceptance Various other political factors, including changes in governmental administrations and personnel Each of these risks is outside our control. If we fail to adequately adapt to these risks and uncertainties, our financial performance could be adversely affected. A prolonged economic slowdown could harm our operations. A prolonged economic slowdown or recession could reduce demand for our software products and services. Governments may face financial pressures that could in turn affect our growth rate and profitability in the future. There is no assurance that government spending levels will be unaffected by declining or stagnant general economic conditions, and if budget shortfalls occur, they may negatively impact government IT spending and could adversely affect our business. The open bidding process creates uncertainty in predicting future contract awards. Many governmental agencies purchase products and services through an open bidding process. Generally, a governmental entity will publish an established list of requirements requesting potential vendors to propose solutions for the established requirements. To respond successfully to these requests for proposals, we must accurately estimate our cost structure for servicing a proposed contract, the time required to establish operations for the proposed client, and the likely terms of any other third-party proposals submitted. We cannot guarantee that we will win any bids in the future through the request for proposal process, or that any winning bids will ultimately result in contracts on favorable terms. Our failure to secure contracts through the open bidding process, or to secure such contracts on favorable terms, may adversely affect our revenue and gross margins. We face significant competition from other vendors and potential new entrants into our markets. We believe we are a leading provider of integrated solutions for the public sector. However, we face competition from a variety of software vendors that offer products and services similar to those offered by us, as well as from companies offering to develop custom software. We compete based on a number of factors, including The attractiveness of our evergreen business strategy The breadth, depth, and quality of our product and service offerings The ability to modify our offerings to accommodate particular clients needs Technological innovation Name recognition, reputation and references 13 Price Our financial strength and stability We believe our market is highly fragmented with a large number of competitors that vary in size, product platform, and product scope. Our competitors include consulting firms, publicly held companies that focus on selected segments of the public sector market, and a significant number of smaller, privately held companies. Certain competitors have greater technical, marketing, and financial resources than we do. We cannot assure you that such competitors will not develop products or offer services that are superior to our products or services or that achieve greater market acceptance. We also compete with internal, centralized IT departments of governmental entities, which requires us to persuade the end-user to stop the internal service and outsource to us. In addition, our clients and prospective clients could elect to provide information management services internally through new or existing departments, which could reduce the market for our services. We could face additional competition as other established and emerging companies enter the public sector software application market and new products and technologies are introduced. Increased competition could result in pricing pressure, fewer client orders, reduced gross margins, and loss of market share. Current and potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third-parties, thereby increasing the ability of their products to address the needs of our prospective clients. It is possible that new competitors or alliances may emerge and rapidly gain significant market share. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors, and the failure to do so would have a material adverse effect upon our business. Fixed-price contracts may affect our profits. Some of our contracts are structured on a fixed-price basis, which can lead to various risks, including The failure to accurately estimate the resources and time required for an engagement The failure to effectively manage our clients expectations regarding the scope of services delivered for a fixed fee The failure to timely and satisfactorily complete fixed-price engagements within budget If we do not adequately assess and manage these and other risks, we may be subject to cost overruns and penalties, which may harm our financial performance. Changes in the insurance markets may affect our business. Some of our clients, primarily those for our property appraisal services, require that we secure performance bonds before they will select us as their vendor. In addition, we have in the past been required to provide letters of credit as security for the issuance of a performance bond. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to secure such performance bonds in the future on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. Our inability to obtain performance bonds on favorable terms or at all could impact our future ability to win some contract awards, particularly large property appraisal services contracts, which could negatively impact revenues. In addition, the general insurance markets may experience volatility, which may lead to future increases in our general and administrative expenses and negatively impact our operating results. 14 Risks Associated with Our Periodic Results and Stock Price Fluctuations in quarterly revenue could adversely impact our operating results and stock price. Our revenues and operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter for a variety of reasons, including Prospective clients contracting decisions are often made in the last few weeks of a quarter The size of license transactions can vary significantly Clients may unexpectedly postpone or cancel procurement processes due to changes in strategic priorities, project objectives, budget, or personnel Client purchasing processes vary significantly and a clients internal approval, expenditure authorization, and contract negotiation processes can be difficult and time consuming to complete, even after selection of a vendor The number, timing, and significance of software product enhancements and new software product announcements by us and our competitors may affect purchase decisions We may have to defer revenues under our revenue recognition policies and GAAP Clients may elect subscription-based arrangements, which result in lower software license revenues in the initial year as compared to traditional, on-premise software license arrangements, but generate higher overall subscription-based revenues over the term of the contract In each fiscal quarter, our expense levels, operating costs, and hiring plans are based to some extent on projections of future revenues and are relatively fixed. If our actual revenues fall below expectations, we could experience a reduction in operating results. Also, if actual revenues or earnings for any given quarter fall below expectations, it may lead to a decline in our stock price. Increases in service revenue as a percentage of total revenues could decrease overall margins. We realize lower margins on software and appraisal service revenues than on license revenue. The majority of our contracts include both software licenses and software services. Therefore, an increase in the percentage of software service and appraisal service revenue compared to license revenue could have a detrimental impact on our overall gross margins and could adversely affect operating results. Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. Examples of factors that may significantly impact our stock price include: Actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results Announcements of technological innovations, new products, or new contracts by us or our competitors Developments with respect to patents, copyrights, or other proprietary rights Conditions and trends in the software and other technology industries Adoption of new accounting standards affecting the software industry Changes in financial estimates by securities analysts General market conditions and other factors 15 In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of technology company stocks and may in the future adversely affect the market price of our stock. Sometimes, securities class action litigation is filed following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular companys securities. We cannot assure you that similar litigation will not occur in the future with respect to us. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of managements attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect upon our financial performance. Our financial outlook may not be realized. From time to time, in press releases and otherwise, we may publish forecasts or other forward-looking statements regarding our results, including estimated revenues or earnings. Any forecast of our future performance reflects various assumptions. These assumptions are subject to significant uncertainties, and as a matter of course, any number of them may prove to be incorrect. Further, the achievement of any forecast depends on numerous risks and other factors (including those described in this discussion), many of which are beyond our control. As a result, we cannot be certain that our performance will be consistent with any management forecasts or that the variation from such forecasts will not be material and adverse. Current and potential stockholders are cautioned not to base their entire analysis of our business and prospects upon isolated predictions, but instead are encouraged to utilize our entire publicly available mix of historical and forward-looking information, as well as other available information regarding us, our products and services, and the software industry when evaluating our prospective results of operations. Risks Associated with Our Growth Strategy and Other General Corporate Risks We may experience difficulties in executing our acquisition strategy. A material portion of our historical growth has resulted from strategic acquisitions. Although our focus is on internal growth, we will continue to identify and pursue strategic acquisitions with suitable candidates. These transactions involve significant challenges and risks, including risks that a transaction does not advance our business strategy; that we do not achieve the expected return on our investment; that we have difficulty integrating business systems and technology; that we have difficulty retaining or integrating new employees; that the transactions distract management from our other businesses; that we acquire unforeseen liabilities; and other unanticipated events. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully integrate future acquisitions into our operations. It may take longer than expected to realize the full benefits of these transactions, such as increased revenue, enhanced efficiencies, or increased market share, or the benefits may be ultimately less than we expected. Although we conduct due diligence reviews of potential acquisition candidates, we may not identify all material liabilities or risks related to acquisition candidates. There can be no assurance that any such strategic acquisitions will be accomplished on favorable terms or will result in profitable operations. Our failure to properly manage growth could adversely affect our business. We have expanded our operations significantly since 1998, when we entered the business of providing software solutions and services to the public sector. We intend to continue expansion in the foreseeable future to pursue existing and potential market opportunities. This growth places significant demands on management and operational resources. In order to manage growth effectively, we must implement and improve our operational systems, procedures, and controls on a timely basis. If we fail to implement these systems, our business may be materially adversely affected. We may be unable to hire, integrate, and retain qualified personnel. Our continued success will depend upon the availability and performance of our key management, sales, marketing, client support, and product development personnel. The loss of key management or technical personnel could adversely affect us. We believe that our continued success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract, integrate, and retain such personnel. We have at times experienced and continue to experience difficulty in recruiting qualified personnel. Competition for qualified software development, sales, and other personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations, and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure can create uncertainty for public companies. The costs required to comply with such evolving laws are difficult to predict. To maintain high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards. This investment may result in an unforeseen increase in general and administrative expenses and a diversion of managements time and attention from revenue-generating activities, which may harm our operating results. 16 We dont foresee paying dividends on our common stock. We have not declared nor paid a cash dividend since we entered the business of providing software solutions and services to the public sector in 1998. We intend to retain earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, and Delaware law could deter takeover attempts. Our board of directors may issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock and may determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions, including voting and conversion rights, of these preferred shares. These determinations may be made without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock may make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. In addition, some provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, and the Delaware General Corporation Law could also delay, prevent, or make more difficult a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES. We occupy a total of approximately 1.0 million square feet of office space, of which approximately 746,000 square feet is in various office facilities we own. We own or lease offices for our major operations in the states of Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Georgia, Iowa, Maine, Massachusetts, Michigan, Missouri, Montana, New Hampshire, New York, Ohio, Texas, Washington and Wisconsin, and in Ontario, Canada. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. Other than routine litigation incidental to our business, there are no material legal proceedings pending to which we are party or to which any of our properties are subject. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS. Not applicable. 17 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol TYL. At December 31, 2018 , we had approximately 1,262 stockholders of record. Most of our stockholders hold their shares in street name; therefore, there are substantially more than 1,262 beneficial owners of our common stock. We did not pay any cash dividends in 2018 or 2017 . Our bank credit agreement contains restrictions on the payment of cash dividends. We intend to retain earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying a cash dividend in the foreseeable future. The following table summarizes certain information related to our stock incentive plan, restricted stock units and our employee stock purchase plan. There are no warrants or rights related to our equity compensation plans as of December 31, 2018 . Number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants, purchase rights and vesting of restricted stock units as of December 31, 2018 Weighted average exercise price of outstanding options and unvested restricted stock units Number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding securities reflected in initial column as of December 31, 2018) Plan Category Equity compensation plans approved by security shareholders: 2018 Incentive Stock Plan (a) 4,425,728 $ 136.43 3,835,338 Employee Stock Purchase Plan 14,869 157.95 749,410 Equity compensation plans not approved by security shareholders 4,440,597 $ 136.50 4,584,748 (a) In May 2018, stockholders approved our 2018 Stock Incentive Plan ("the 2018 Plan") which amended and restated the existing Tyler Technologies, Inc. 2010 Stock Option Plan ("the 2010 Plan"). Upon stockholder approval of the 2018 Plan, the remaining shares available for grant under the 2010 Plan were added to the shares authorized for grant under the 2018 Plan. Additionally, any awards previously granted under the 2010 Plan that expire unexercised or are forfeited are added to the shares authorized for grant under the 2018 Plan. Under the 2018 Plan, each award granted, other than stock options, reduces the number of securities available for issuance under the 2018 Plan by 2.5 shares. As of December 31, 2018 , we had authorization to repurchase up to approximately 1.2 million additional shares of Tyler common stock. During 2018 , we purchased approximately 781,000 shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $150.1 million . A summary of the repurchase activity during 2018 is as follows: Period Total number of shares repurchased Additional number of shares authorized that may be repurchased Average price paid per share Maximum number of shares that may be repurchased under current authorization Three months ended March 31 $ $ 1,973,560 Three months ended June 30 1,973,560 Three months ended September 30 1,973,560 October 1 through October 31 154,739 209.69 1,818,821 November 1 through November 30 457,503 189.13 1,361,318 December 1 through December 31 168,600 183.86 1,192,718 780,842 $ 192.16 18 The repurchase program, which was approved by our board of directors, was announced in October 2002 and was amended at various times from 2003 through 2019. There is no expiration date specified for the authorization, and we intend to repurchase stock under the program from time to time. Subsequent to December 31, 2018 , our board of directors authorized the repurchase of an additional 1.5 million shares of Tyler common stock. As of February 20, 2019 , we had remaining authorization to repurchase up to 2.7 million additional shares of our common stock. Performance Graph The following Performance Graph and related information shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each as amended, except to the extent that we specifically incorporate it by reference into such filing. The following table compares total shareholder returns for Tyler over the last five years to the Standard and Poors 500 Stock Index and the Standard and Poors 600 Information Technology Index assuming a $100 investment made on December 31, 2013 . Each of the three measures of cumulative total return assumes reinvestment of dividends. The stock performance shown on the graph below is not necessarily indicative of future price performance. Company / Index 12/31/13 12/31/14 12/31/15 12/31/16 12/31/17 12/31/18 Tyler Technologies, Inc. 100 107.16 170.68 139.79 173.36 181.94 S&P 500 Stock Index 100 113.69 115.26 129.05 157.22 150.33 S&P 600 Information Technology Index 100 113.29 118.56 158.70 175.01 159.38 19 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA. FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2018 2017 (a),(b) 2016 (a),(c) 2015(d) 2014 As Adjusted As Adjusted STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS DATA: Revenues $ 935,282 $ 840,899 $ 759,880 $ 591,022 $ 493,101 Cost and expenses: Cost of revenues 495,704 441,522 400,692 313,835 259,730 Selling, general and administrative expenses 207,605 175,914 165,176 133,317 108,260 Research and development expense 63,264 47,324 43,154 29,922 25,743 Amortization of customer and trade name intangibles 16,217 13,381 13,202 5,905 4,546 Operating income 152,492 162,758 137,656 108,043 94,822 Other income (expense), net 3,378 698 (1,998 ) 381 (355 ) Income before income taxes 155,870 163,456 135,658 108,424 94,467 Income tax (benefit) provision (b) 8,408 (6,115 ) 21,957 43,555 35,527 Net income 147,462 169,571 113,701 64,869 58,940 Net earnings per diluted share $ 3.68 $ 4.32 $ 2.92 $ 1.77 $ 1.66 Weighted average diluted shares (c) 40,123 39,246 38,961 36,552 35,401 STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS DATA: Cash flows provided by operating activities (c) $ 250,203 $ 195,755 $ 191,859 $ 134,327 $ 142,839 Cash flows used by investing activities (238,255 ) (85,395 ) (50,720 ) (398,459 ) (11,555 ) Cash flows (used) provided by financing activities (c) (63,595 ) 39,415 138,075 91,052 (3,993 ) BALANCE SHEET DATA: Total assets $ 1,790,963 $ 1,611,351 $ 1,378,502 $ 1,356,570 $ 569,812 Revolving line of credit 10,000 66,000 Shareholders' equity 1,324,846 1,191,736 934,540 858,857 336,973 (a) Reflects the impact of the adoption of Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers in fiscal year 2018. Refer to Note - 1 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" for further discussion. (b) 2017 includes the significant impact of the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("Tax Act"). The most significant impact of the Tax Act to us is the reduction in the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%. The impact of the rate reduction on our 2017 income tax provision is a $26.0 million (as adjusted) tax benefit due to the remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities. Refer to Note - 7 "Income Tax" for further discussion on the impact of the Tax Act. (c) During 2016, we early adopted ASU No. 2016-09 Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting requiring the recognition of excess tax benefits or tax deficiencies as a component of income tax expense; these benefits or deficiencies were historically recognized in equity. As the standard requires a prospective method of adoption, our net income in 2016 includes a $29.6 million income tax benefit due to the adoption that did not occur in the comparable prior periods presented above. In 2016, ASU No. 2016-09 updated the method of calculating diluted shares resulting in the inclusion of 519,000 additional shares in our diluted earnings per share calculation, which is not comparable to the other prior periods presented. The adoption of ASU No. 2016-09 also required excess tax benefits, previously presented as financing activities, to be classified as operating activities. As retrospective adoption for this component of the standard is allowable, we have adjusted all periods presented above to reflect this change in classification. (d) On November 16, 2015, we completed the acquisition of New World Systems Corporation ("NWS"). Operating results for the twelve months ended December 31, 2015, include $5.9 million for non-recurring financial advisory, legal, accounting, due diligence, valuation and other expenses necessary to complete the NWS acquisition. 20 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that are not historical in nature and typically address future or anticipated events, trends, expectations or beliefs with respect to our financial condition, results of operations or business. Forward-looking statements often contain words such as believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates, plans, intends, continues, may, will, should, projects, might, could or other similar words or phrases. Similarly, statements that describe our business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. We believe there is a reasonable basis for our forward-looking statements, but they are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results could differ materially from the expectations and beliefs reflected in the forward-looking statements. We presently consider the following to be among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and beliefs: (1) changes in the budgets or regulatory environments of our clients, primarily local and state governments, that could negatively impact information technology spending; (2) our ability to protect client information from security breaches and provide uninterrupted operations of data centers; (3) our ability to achieve growth or operational synergies through the integration of acquired businesses, while avoiding unanticipated costs and disruptions to existing operations; (4) material portions of our business require the Internet infrastructure to be adequately maintained; (5) our ability to achieve our financial forecasts due to various factors, including project delays by our clients, reductions in transaction size, fewer transactions, delays in delivery of new products or releases or a decline in our renewal rates for service agreements; (6) general economic, political and market conditions; (7) technological and market risks associated with the development of new products or services or of new versions of existing or acquired products or services; (8) competition in the industry in which we conduct business and the impact of competition on pricing, client retention and pressure for new products or services; (9) the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel and dealing with the loss or retirement of key members of management or other key personnel; and (10) costs of compliance and any failure to comply with government and stock exchange regulations. A detailed discussion of these factors and other risks that affect our business are described in Item 1A, Risk Factors. We expressly disclaim any obligation to publicly update or revise our forward-looking statements. OVERVIEW General We provide integrated information management solutions and services for the public sector, with a focus on local governments. We develop and market a broad line of software products and services to address the IT needs of cities, counties, schools and other local government entities. In addition, we provide professional IT services to our clients, including software and hardware installation, data conversion, training and for certain clients, product modifications, along with continuing maintenance and support for clients using our systems. We also provide subscription-based services such as software as a service (SaaS), which primarily utilize the Tyler private cloud, and electronic document filing solutions (e-filing), which simplify the filing and management of court related documents. Revenues for e-filing are derived from transaction fees and, in some cases, fixed fee arrangements. We also provide property appraisal outsourcing services for taxing jurisdictions. Our products generally automate seven major functional areas: (1) financial management and education, (2) courts and justice, (3) public safety (4) property appraisal and tax, (5) planning, regulatory and maintenance (6) land and vital records management and (7) data and insights. We report our results in two segments. The Enterprise Software (ES) segment provides municipal and county governments and schools with software systems and services to meet their information technology and automation needs for mission-critical back-office functions such as: financial management; courts and justice processes; public safety; planning, regulatory and maintenance; land and vital records management; and data analytics. The Appraisal and Tax (A&T) segment provides systems and software that automate the appraisal and assessment of real and personal property as well as property appraisal outsourcing services for local governments and taxing authorities. Property appraisal outsourcing services include: the physical inspection of commercial and residential properties; data collection and processing; computer analysis for property valuation; preparation of tax rolls; community education; and arbitration between taxpayers and the assessing jurisdiction. 21 Our total employee count increased to 4,525 at December 31, 2018 , from 4,069 at December 31, 2017 . For the twelve months ended December 31, 2018 , total revenues increased 11% compared to the prior year. Organic revenue growth was 9% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2018 , compared to the prior year period and revenues from acquisitions contributed 2% of growth for the twelve months ended December 31, 2018 . Subscriptions revenue grew 28% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2018 , due to a gradual shift toward cloud-based, software as a service business, as well as continued strong growth in our e-filing revenues from courts and the addition of new subscription revenues from the acquisition of Socrata. Organic subscriptions revenue increased 21% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2018 . Our backlog at December 31, 2018 was $1.25 billion , a 2% increase from last year. Recent Acquisitions On December 7, 2018, we acquired certain assets and intellectual property of SceneDoc, Inc. ("SceneDoc"), a company that provides mobile-first, software-as-a-service (SaaS) field reporting for law enforcement agencies. The total purchase price was approximately $6.2 million , of which $5.4 million was paid in cash and approximately $759,000 accrued for a working capital holdback. As of December 31, 2018 , the purchase price allocation for SceneDoc is not yet complete. The preliminary estimates of fair value assumed at the acquisition date for intangible assets, receivables and deferred revenue and related deferred taxes are subject to change as valuations are finalized. On October 1, 2018, we acquired all of the equity interests of TradeMaster, Inc. dba MobileEyes ("MobileEyes"), a company that develops software to improve public safety by supporting fire prevention and suppression, emergency response, and structural safety. The total purchase price was approximately $5.3 million in cash. On August 31, 2018, we acquired all of the assets of CaseloadPRO, L. P. ("CaseloadPro"), a company that provides a fully featured probation case management system. The purchase price of $9.3 million was paid in cash. On April 30, 2018, we acquired all of the capital stock of Socrata, Inc. ("Socrata"), a company that provides open data and data-as-a-service solutions including cloud-based data integration, visualization, analysis, and reporting solutions for federal, state and local government agencies. The purchase price, net of cash acquired of $1.7 million , was $147.6 million in cash. On April 30, 2018, we acquired all of the equity interests of Sage Data Security, LLC ("Sage"), a cybersecurity company offering a suite of services that supports an entire cybersecurity lifecycle, including program development, education and training, technical testing, advisory services, and digital forensics. The total purchase price was $11.6 million paid in cash. As of December 31, 2018 , the purchase price allocations for Sage, Socrata, CaseloadPro, and MobileEyes are complete. The operating results of all 2018 acquisitions are included with the operating results of the Enterprise Software segment since their date of acquisition. Revenues from Socrata included in Tyler's results of operations totaled approximately $13.9 million and the net loss was $11.5 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2018 . The impact of the Sage, CaseloadPRO, MobileEyes and SceneDoc acquisitions, individually and in the aggregate, on our operating results, assets and liabilities is not material. Our balance sheet as of December 31, 2018 , reflects the allocation of the purchase price to the assets acquired based on their fair value at the date of each acquisition. The fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired are based on valuations using Level III, unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. We monitor and analyze several key performance indicators in order to manage our business and evaluate our financial and operating performance. These indicators include the following: Revenues We derive our revenues from five primary sources: sale of software licenses and royalties; subscription-based arrangements; software services; maintenance; and appraisal services. Subscriptions and maintenance are considered recurring revenue sources and comprised approximately 65% of our revenue in 2018 . The number of new SaaS clients and the number of existing clients who convert from our traditional software arrangements to our SaaS model are a significant driver to our business, together with new software license sales and maintenance rate increases. In addition, we also monitor our customer base and churn as we historically have experienced very low customer turnover. During 2018 , based on our number of customers, turnover was approximately 2% . 22 Cost of Revenues and Gross Margins Our primary cost component is personnel expenses in connection with providing software implementation, subscription-based services, maintenance and support, and appraisal services to our clients. We can improve gross margins by controlling headcount and related costs and by expanding our revenue base, especially from those products and services that produce incremental revenue with minimal incremental cost, such as software licenses and royalties, subscription-based services, and maintenance and support. Our appraisal projects are cyclical in nature, and we often employ appraisal personnel on a short-term basis to coincide with the life of a project. As of December 31, 2018 , our total employee count increased to 4,525 from 4,069 at December 31, 2017 . Selling, General and Administrative (SG&A) Expenses The primary components of SG&A expenses are administrative and sales personnel salaries and commissions, share-based compensation expense, marketing expense, rent and professional fees. Sales commissions typically fluctuate with revenues and share-based compensation expense generally increases as the market price of our stock increases. Other administrative expenses tend to grow at a slower rate than revenues. Liquidity and Cash Flows The primary driver of our cash flows is net income. Uses of cash include acquisitions, capital investments in property and equipment and discretionary purchases of treasury stock. Our working capital needs are fairly stable throughout the year with the significant components of cash outflows being payment of personnel expenses offset by cash inflows representing collection of accounts receivable and cash receipts from clients in advance of revenue being earned. In recent years, we have also received significant amounts of cash from employees exercising stock options and contributing to our Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Balance Sheet Cash, accounts receivable and days sales outstanding and deferred revenue balances are important indicators of our business. Adoption of New Revenue Accounting Standard On January 1, 2018, we adopted ASU No. 2014-09, using the full retrospective method of transition, which requires that the new standard be applied to all periods presented. The impacts of adoption are reflected in the financial information herein. For additional details, see Note 1 - "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to our consolidated financial statements in this report. Recent Accounting Guidance not yet Adopted Leases. On February 25, 2016, the FASB issued its new lease accounting guidance in ASU No. 2016-02, Leases ("Topic 842"). Under the new guidance, lessees will be required to recognize the following for all leases (with the exception of short-term leases) at the commencement date: A lease liability, which is a lessees obligation to make lease payments arising from a lease, measured on a discounted basis; and A right-of-use asset, which is an asset that represents the lessees right to use, or control the use of, a specified asset for the lease term. Topic 842 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods therein. Early application is permitted for all business entities upon issuance. Upon adoption, entities will be required to use a modified retrospective approach with an option to use certain practical expedients. We expect to adopt ASU 2016-02 when effective, using the transition method that allows us to initially apply the guidance at the adoption date of January 1, 2019, and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption. We expect to use the package of practical expedients that allows us to not reassess: (1) lease classification for any expired or existing leases and (2) initial direct costs for any expired or existing leases. We expect ASU 2016-02 will impact our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. We are currently evaluating the extent of the impact and expect that most of our lease commitments will be subject to the updated guidance and recognized as lease liabilities and right-of-use assets on our consolidated balance sheets upon adoption. Based on our current portfolio of leases, we estimate a range of $15.5 million to $17.8 million of lease assets and liabilities to be recognized on our balance sheet, primarily relating to office facilities. Outlook The local government software market continues to be active, and our backlog at December 31, 2018 reached $1.25 billion , a 2% increase from last year. We expect to continue to achieve solid growth in revenue and earnings. With our strong financial position and cash flow, we plan to continue to make significant investments in product development to better position us to continue to expand our competitive position in the public sector software market over the long term. 23 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, the reported amounts of revenues, cost of revenues and expenses during the reporting period, and related disclosure of contingencies. The Notes to the Financial Statements included as part of this Annual Report describe our significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the financial statements. Significant items subject to such estimates and assumptions include the application of the progress toward completion methods of revenue recognition, estimated standalone selling price ("SSP") for distinct performance obligations, the carrying amount and estimated useful lives of intangible assets, determination of share-based compensation expense and valuation allowance for receivables. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies require significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements. Revenue Recognition. We earn revenue from software licenses, royalties, subscription-based services, software services, post-contract customer support (PCS or maintenance), hardware, and appraisal services. Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services. We determine revenue recognition through the following steps: Identification of the contract, or contracts, with a customer Identification of the performance obligations in the contract Determination of the transaction price Allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract Recognition of revenue when, or as, we satisfy a performance obligation Most of our software arrangements with customers contain multiple performance obligations that range from software licenses, installation, training, and consulting to software modification and customization to meet specific customer needs (services), hosting, and PCS. For these contracts, we account for individual performance obligations separately when they are distinct. We evaluate whether separate performance obligations can be distinct or should be accounted for as one performance obligation. Arrangements that include software services, such as training or installation, are evaluated to determine whether those services are highly interdependent or highly interrelated to the products functionality. Many of our software arrangements involve off-the-shelf software. We recognize the revenue allocable to "off-the-shelf" software licenses and specified upgrades at a point in time when control of the software license transfers to the customer, unless the software is not considered distinct. We consider off-the-shelf software to be distinct when it can be added to an arrangement with minor changes in the underlying code, it can be used by the customer for the customers purpose upon installation, and remaining services such as training are not considered highly interdependent or highly interrelated to the product's functionality. For arrangements that involve significant production, modification or customization of the software, or where software services are otherwise not considered distinct, we recognize revenue over time by measuring progress-to-completion. We measure progress-to-completion primarily using labor hours incurred as it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer which occurs as we incur costs on our contracts. These arrangements are often implemented over an extended period and occasionally require us to revise total cost estimates. Amounts recognized in revenue are calculated using the progress-to-completion measurement after giving effect to any changes in our cost estimates. Changes to total estimated contract costs, if any, are recorded in the period they are determined. Estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are recorded in the period in which we first determine that a loss is apparent. When software services are distinct, the fee allocable to the service element is recognized over the time we perform the services and is billed on a time and material basis. 24 Subscription-based services consist of revenues derived from SaaS arrangements, which primarily utilize the Tyler private cloud, and electronic filing transactions. Revenue from subscription-based services is generally recognized over time on a ratable basis over the contract term, beginning on the date that our service is made available to the customer. For SaaS arrangements, we evaluate whether the customer has the contractual right to take possession of our software at any time during the hosting period without significant penalty and whether the customer can feasibly maintain the software on the customers hardware or enter into another arrangement with a third-party to host the software. We allocate contract value to each performance obligation of the arrangement that qualifies for treatment as a distinct element based on estimated SSP. When it is determined that software is distinct and the customer has the ability to take control of the software, we recognize revenue allocable to the software license fee when access to the software license is made available to the customer. We recognize hosting services ratably over the term of the arrangement, which range from one to ten years but are typically for a period of three to five years. For software services associated with certain SaaS arrangements, we have concluded that the services are not distinct, and we recognize the revenue ratably over the remaining contractual period once we have provided the customer access to the software. We record amounts that have been invoiced in accounts receivable and in deferred revenue or revenues, depending on whether the revenue recognition criteria have been met. The transaction price is allocated to the separate performance obligations on a relative SSP basis. We determine the SSP based on our overall pricing objectives, taking into consideration market conditions and other factors, including the value of our contracts, the applications sold, customer demographics, and the number and types of users within our contracts. We use a range of amounts to estimate SSP when we sell each of the products and services separately and need to determine whether there is a discount to be allocated based on the relative SSP of the various products and services. In instances where SSP is not directly observable, such as when we do not sell the product or service separately, we determine SSP using the expected cost-plus margin approach. Revenue is recognized net of allowances for sales adjustments and any taxes collected from customers, which are subsequently remitted to governmental authorities. Typically, the structure of our arrangements does not give rise to variable consideration. However, in those instances whereby variable consideration exists, we include in our estimates additional revenue for variable consideration when we believe we have an enforceable right, the amount can be estimated reliably and its realization is probable. We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts, which are provided at the time the revenue is recognized. Since most of our customers are domestic governmental entities, we rarely incur a loss resulting from the inability of a customer to make required payments. Events or changes in circumstances that indicate that the carrying amount for the allowances for doubtful accounts may require revision include, but are not limited to, deterioration of a customers financial condition, failure to manage our customers expectations regarding the scope of the services to be delivered, and defects or errors in new versions or enhancements of our software products. The allowance for doubtful accounts reflects our best estimate of probable losses inherent in the accounts receivable balance. We determine the allowance based on known troubled accounts, historical experience, and other currently available evidence. In connection with certain of our contracts, we have recorded retentions receivable or unbilled receivables consisting of costs and estimated profit in excess of billings as of the balance sheet date. Many of the contracts which give rise to unbilled receivables at a given balance sheet date are subject to billings in the subsequent accounting period. We review unbilled receivables and related contract provisions to ensure we are justified in recognizing revenue prior to billing the customer and that we have objective evidence which allows us to recognize such revenue. In addition, we have a sizable amount of deferred revenue, which represents billings in excess of revenue earned. The majority of this liability consists of maintenance billings for which payments are made in advance and the revenue is ratably earned over the maintenance period, generally one year. We also have deferred revenue for those contracts in which we receive a deposit and the conditions in which to record revenue for the service or product have not been met. On a periodic basis, we review by customer the detail components of our deferred revenue to ensure our accounting remains appropriate. Intangible Assets and Goodwill . Our business acquisitions typically result in the creation of goodwill and other intangible asset balances, and these balances affect the amount and timing of future period amortization expense, as well as expense we could possibly incur as a result of an impairment charge. The cost of acquired companies is allocated to identifiable tangible and intangible assets based on estimated fair value, with the excess allocated to goodwill. Accordingly, we have a significant balance of acquisition date intangible assets, including software, customer related intangibles, trade name, leases and goodwill. These intangible assets (other than goodwill) are amortized over their estimated useful lives. We currently have no intangible assets with indefinite lives other than goodwill. 25 When testing goodwill for impairment quantitatively, we first compare the fair value of each reporting unit with its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, a second step is performed to measure the amount of potential impairment. In the second step, we compare the implied fair value of reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of the reporting units goodwill. If the carrying amount of reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized. The fair values calculated in our impairment tests are determined using discounted cash flow models involving several assumptions. The assumptions that are used are based upon what we believe a hypothetical marketplace participant would use in estimating fair value. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. We evaluate the reasonableness of the fair value calculations of our reporting units by comparing the total of the fair value of all of our reporting units to our total market capitalization. Our annual goodwill impairment analysis, which we performed quantitatively during the second quarter of 2018 , did not result in an impairment charge. During 2018 , we did not identify any triggering events that would require an update to our annual impairment review. All intangible assets (other than goodwill) are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of other intangible assets is measured by comparison of the carrying amount to estimated undiscounted future cash flows. The assessment of recoverability or of the estimated useful life for amortization purposes will be affected if the timing or the amount of estimated future operating cash flows is not achieved. Such indicators may include, among others: a significant decline in expected future cash flows; a sustained, significant decline in stock price and market capitalization; a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate; unanticipated competition; and reductions in growth rates. In addition, products, capabilities, or technologies developed by others may render our software products obsolete or non-competitive. Any adverse change in these factors could have a significant impact on the recoverability of goodwill or other intangible assets. Share-Based Compensation. We have a stock incentive plan that provides for the grant of stock options, restricted stock units and performance stock units to key employees, directors and non-employee consultants. We estimate the fair value of share-based awards on the date of grant. Share-based compensation expense includes the estimated effects of forfeitures, which will be adjusted over the requisite service period to the extent actual forfeitures differ or are expected to differ from such estimates. Changes in estimated forfeitures are recognized in the period of change and will also impact the amount of expense to be recognized in future periods. Forfeiture rate assumptions are derived from historical data. We estimate stock price volatility at the date of grant based on the historical volatility of our common stock. Estimated option life is determined using the weighted-average period the stock options are expected to be outstanding based primarily on the options vesting terms, remaining contractual life and the employees expected exercise based on historical patterns. Determining the appropriate fair-value model and calculating the fair value of share-based awards at the grant date requires considerable judgment, including estimating stock price volatility, expected option life and forfeiture rates. 26 ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND OTHER The following discussion compares the historical results of operations on a basis consistent with GAAP for the years ended December 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 . Percentage of Total Revenues Years Ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016 As Adjusted As Adjusted Revenues: Software licenses and royalties 10.0 % 10.3 % 11.0 % Subscriptions 23.6 20.5 18.8 Software services 20.5 21.5 22.6 Maintenance 41.1 42.6 42.2 Appraisal services 2.3 3.0 3.5 Hardware and other 2.5 2.1 1.9 Total revenues 100.0 100.0 100.0 Operating expenses: Cost of software licenses, royalties and acquired software 2.9 3.0 3.3 Cost of software services, maintenance and subscriptions 46.9 46.1 45.8 Cost of appraisal services 1.5 1.9 2.2 Cost of hardware and other 1.7 1.5 1.3 Selling, general and administrative expenses 22.2 20.9 21.7 Research and development expense 6.8 5.6 5.7 Amortization of customer and trade name intangibles 1.7 1.6 1.7 Operating income 16.3 19.4 18.3 Other income (expense), net 0.4 0.1 (0.3 ) Income before income taxes 16.7 19.5 18.0 Income tax (benefit) provision 0.9 (0.7 ) 2.9 Net income 15.8 % 20.2 % 15.1 % 27 2018 Compared to 2017 Revenues On April 30, 2018, we acquired Socrata, a company that provides open data and data-as-a-service solutions for federal, state and local government agencies including cloud-based data integration, visualization, analysis, and reporting solutions. The following table details revenue for Socrata for the periods presented as of December 31, 2018 , which is included in our consolidated statements of income: 2018 Revenues: Software licenses and royalties $ Subscriptions 12,106 Software services 1,751 Maintenance Appraisal services Hardware and other 20 Total revenues $ 13,877 On December 7, 2018, we acquired SceneDoc, Inc., a company that provides mobile-first, software-as-a-service (SaaS) field reporting for law enforcement agencies. On October 1, 2018, we acquired MobileEyes, a company that develops software to improve public safety by supporting fire prevention and suppression, emergency response, and structural safety. On August 31, 2018, we acquired CaseloadPRO, a company that provides a fully featured probation case management system. On April 30, 2018, we also acquired Sage, a cybersecurity company offering a suite of services that supports an entire cybersecurity lifecycle. The impact of these acquisitions on our operating results is not considered material, individually and in the aggregate, and is not included in the table above. The results of these acquisitions are included with the operating results of the ES segment from their dates of acquisition. For comparative purposes, we have provided explanations for changes in operations to exclude results of operations for these acquisitions noting the exclusion. Software licenses and royalties. The following table sets forth a comparison of our software licenses and royalties revenue for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2018 2017 $ % As Adjusted ES $ 83,735 $ 78,388 $ 5,347 7 % A&T 9,706 7,854 1,852 24 Total software licenses and royalties revenue $ 93,441 $ 86,242 $ 7,199 8 % Software license and royalties revenue grew 8% compared to the prior year. The majority of this growth was due to an active marketplace as the result of generally positive local government economic conditions, as well as our increasingly strong competitive position, which we attribute in part to our investment in product development in recent years. An increase in the number of larger contracts related to our planning, regulatory and maintenance solutions and public safety solutions also contributed to the growth in license revenue. Although the mix of new contracts between subscription-based and perpetual license arrangements may vary from quarter to quarter and year to year, we expect our longer-term software license growth rate to be negatively impacted by a growing number of customers choosing our subscription-based options, rather than purchasing the software under a traditional perpetual software license arrangement. Subscription-based arrangements result in lower software license revenue in the initial year as compared to perpetual software license arrangements but generate higher overall revenue over the term of the contract. Our new client mix in 2018 was approximately 47% selecting perpetual software license arrangements and approximately 53% selecting subscription-based arrangements compared to a client mix in 2017 of approximately 53% selecting perpetual software license arrangements and approximately 47% selecting subscription-based arrangements. 28 Subscriptions. The following table sets forth a comparison of our subscriptions revenue for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2018 2017 $ % As Adjusted ES $ 210,740 $ 164,317 $ 46,423 28 % A&T 9,807 7,859 1,948 25 Total subscriptions revenue $ 220,547 $ 172,176 $ 48,371 28 % Subscription-based revenue primarily consists of revenue derived from our SaaS arrangements, which generally utilize the Tyler private cloud. As part of our subscription-based services, we also provide electronic document filing solutions (e-filing) that simplify the filing and management of court related documents for courts and law offices. E-filing revenue is derived from transaction fees and fixed fee arrangements. Excluding the results of acquisitions, subscription-based revenue increased 21% compared to 2017 . New SaaS clients as well as existing clients who converted to our SaaS model provided the majority of the subscription revenue increase. In 2018 , we added 410 new SaaS clients and 97 existing clients elected to convert to our SaaS model. Also, e-filing services contributed approximately $ 6.2 million of the subscription revenue increase in 2018 . The increase in e-filing revenue is attributed to new e-filing clients, as well as increased volumes as the result of several existing clients mandating e-filing. The acquisition of Socrata, which primarily has a subscription revenue model, also contributed to the increase in subscription revenues. Software services. The following table sets forth a comparison of our software services revenue for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2018 2017 $ % As Adjusted ES $ 166,921 $ 161,245 $ 5,676 4 % A&T 24,348 19,215 5,133 27 Total software services revenue $ 191,269 $ 180,460 $ 10,809 6 % Software services revenue primarily consists of professional services billed in connection with implementing our software, converting client data, training client personnel, custom development activities and consulting. New clients who purchase our proprietary software licenses generally also contract with us to provide for the related software services. Existing clients also periodically purchase additional training, consulting and minor programming services. Excluding the results of acquisitions, software services revenue grew 3% compared to the prior year period. This growth is due to a higher level of new software sales, through both our license and subscription models. Maintenance. The following table sets forth a comparison of our maintenance revenue for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2018 2017 $ % As Adjusted ES $ 359,904 $ 337,701 $ 22,203 7 % A&T 24,617 21,618 2,999 14 Total maintenance revenue $ 384,521 $ 359,319 $ 25,202 7 % We provide maintenance and support services for our software products and certain third-party software. Maintenance revenue grew 7% compared to the prior year. Maintenance and support revenue increased mainly due to growth in our installed customer base from new software license sales as well as annual maintenance rate increases. 29 Appraisal services. The following table sets forth a comparison of our appraisal services revenue for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2018 2017 $ % As Adjusted ES $ $ $ % A&T 21,846 25,023 (3,177 ) (13 ) Total appraisal services revenue $ 21,846 $ 25,023 $ (3,177 ) (13 )% In 2018 , appraisal services revenue decreased 13% compared to the prior year primarily due to the successful completion of several large revaluation projects in mid-2017. The appraisal services business is somewhat cyclical and driven in part by statutory revaluation cycles in various states. Cost of Revenues and Gross Margins The following table sets forth a comparison of the key components of our cost of revenues for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2018 2017 $ % As Adjusted Software licenses and royalties $ 3,802 $ 3,321 $ 481 14 % Acquired software 22,972 21,686 1,286 6 Software services, maintenance and subscriptions 438,923 387,634 51,289 13 Appraisal services 14,299 16,286 (1,987 ) (12 ) Hardware and other 15,708 12,595 3,113 25 Total cost of revenues $ 495,704 $ 441,522 $ 54,182 12 % The following table sets forth a comparison of gross margin percentage by revenue type for the years ended December 31: Gross margin percentage 2018 2017 Change As Adjusted Software licenses, royalties and acquired software 71.3 % 71.0 % 0.3 % Software services, maintenance and subscriptions 44.9 45.6 (0.7 ) Appraisal services 34.5 34.9 (0.4 ) Hardware and other 33.6 28.8 4.8 Overall gross margin 47.0 % 47.5 % (0.5 )% Software licenses, royalties and acquired software . Cost of software licenses, royalties and acquired software is primarily comprised of amortization expense for acquired software and third-party software costs. We do not have any direct costs associated with royalties. The gross margin increase of 0.3% is due to higher software license revenues offset by an increase in amortization expense for acquired software attributed to new acquisitions completed in 2018. 30 Software services, maintenance and subscriptions . Cost of software services, maintenance and subscriptions primarily consists of personnel costs related to installation of our software, conversion of client data, training client personnel and support activities and various other services such as custom client development and on-going operation of SaaS and e-filing arrangements. In 2018 , the software services, maintenance and subscriptions gross margin decreased 0.7% compared to the prior year. Excluding employees added through acquisitions, our implementation and support staff has grown by 57 employees since December 31, 2017 as we accelerated hiring to ensure that we are well-positioned to deliver our current backlog and anticipated new business. Recognition of acquisition-related deferred revenue associated with subscriptions and maintenance also resulted in lower gross margins. Appraisal services . Appraisal services revenue comprised approximately 2.3% of total revenue. The appraisal services gross margin decreased 0.4% compared to 2017 due to the reduction in higher margin projects substantially complete by early 2017 and lower volume of revenues in the current period to cover relatively fixed costs. Our 2018 blended gross margin slightly decreased by 0.5% compared to 2017 . Our overall gross margin decrease is mainly attributed to additions to our implementation staff and lower margin revenues from appraisal services, offset by improved margin on revenues from software licenses. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses consist primarily of salaries, employee benefits, travel, share-based compensation expense, commissions and related overhead costs for administrative and sales and marketing employees, as well as, professional fees, trade show activities, advertising costs and other marketing related costs. The following table sets forth a comparison of our SG&A expenses for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2018 2017 $ % As Adjusted Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 207,605 $ 175,914 $ 31,691 18 % SG&A as a percentage of revenue was 22.2% in 2018 compared to 20.9% in 2017 . SG&A expense increased approximately 18% compared to the prior year period. In 2018, our operating results include $9.1 million of SG&A expenses for Socrata from the date of acquisition. The remaining SG&A expense increase is mainly due to compensation cost related to increased staff levels, higher stock compensation expense and increased commission expense as a result of higher sales. Excluding employees added with acquisitions, we have added 47 employees mainly to our sales and finance teams since December 31, 2017 . In addition, our 2018 stock compensation expense rose $11.2 million , mainly due to increases in our stock price over the last few years. Research and Development Expense Research and development expense consists primarily of salaries, employee benefits and related overhead costs associated with new product development. The following table sets forth a comparison of our research and development expense for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2018 2017 $ % Research and development expense $ 63,264 $ 47,324 $ 15,940 34 % Research and development expense increased 34% in 2018 compared to the prior year period, mainly due to a number of new Tyler product development initiatives across our product suites, including increased investments in research and development at recently acquired businesses. To support these initiatives, our research and development staff has grown by 159 since December 31, 2017 . 31 Amortization of Customer and Trade Name Intangibles Acquisition intangibles are comprised of the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net tangible assets acquired that is allocated to acquired software, leases and customer and trade name intangibles. The remaining excess purchase price is allocated to goodwill that is not subject to amortization. Amortization expense related to acquired software is included with cost of revenues, while amortization expense of customer and trade name intangibles is recorded as operating expense. The estimated useful lives of both customer and trade name intangibles range from five to 25 years. The following table sets forth a comparison of amortization of customer and trade name intangibles for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2018 2017 $ % As Adjusted Amortization of customer and trade name intangibles $ 16,217 $ 13,381 $ 2,836 21 % Amortization of customer and trade name intangibles increased due to the impact of intangibles added with several acquisitions completed in 2017 and 2018 . Estimated annual amortization expense relating to customer and trade name acquisition intangibles, excluding acquired software for which the amortization expense is recorded as cost of revenues, for the next five years is as follows (in thousands): 2019 $ 16,459 2020 15,350 2021 15,232 2022 14,740 2023 14,665 Thereafter 95,419 Amortization expense relating to acquired leases will be recorded as a reduction to hardware and other revenue and is expected to be $372,000 in 2019 , $313,000 in 2020 , $312,000 in 2021 , $312,000 in 2022 , $312,000 in 2023 and $723,000 thereafter . Other The following table sets forth a comparison of other income (expense), net for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2018 2017 $ % Other income, net $ 3,378 $ 698 $ 2,680 N/M Other income is comprised of interest expense and non-usage and other fees associated with our revolving credit agreement as well as interest income from invested cash. Other income, net, increased compared to the prior period due to increased interest income from significantly higher levels of cash and investments resulting from cash generated in the last year. We had no debt in the current period, as we repaid all borrowings under the revolving line of credit in January 2017. 32 Income Tax Provision (Benefit) The following table sets forth a comparison of our income tax provision for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2018 2017 $ % As Adjusted Income tax provision (benefit) $ 8,408 $ (6,115 ) $ 14,523 (237 )% Effective income tax rate 5.4 % (3.7 )% The increase in the income tax provision in 2018 is primarily due to the one-time tax benefit of $26.0 million (as adjusted) recognized in the fourth quarter of 2017 resulting from the remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities associated with the enactment of the Tax Act which reduced the statutory U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%. The increase is somewhat offset by the decrease in statutory U.S. federal corporate income tax rate for 2018 . In addition, excess tax benefits from stock option exercises were lower in 2018 as compared to the prior period. Stock option exercise activity in 2018 generated excess tax benefits of $32.5 million , while stock option exercise activity in 2017 generated $40.6 million excess tax benefits. The increase in the effective income tax rate in 2018 compared to 2017 is also primarily attributable to the one-time tax benefit associated with the Tax Act recognized in 2017 and the decrease in excess tax benefits related to stock option exercises realized, offset by the decrease in statutory U.S. federal corporate income tax rate for 2018 . Excluding the impact of the Tax Act and the excess tax benefits, our income tax provision and effective tax rate in 2018 would have been $42.6 million and 27.4% and in 2017 , would have been $60.5 million (as adjusted) and 37.0% , respectively. The effective income tax rates in both 2018 and 2017 differed from the statutory United States federal corporate income tax rate of 21% and 35%, respectively, due to state income taxes, the research tax credit, non-deductible share-based compensation expense, disqualifying incentive stock option dispositions, and other non-deductible business expenses, and in 2017 , the domestic production activities deduction. 2017 Compared to 2016 Revenues Software licenses and royalties. The following table sets forth a comparison of our software licenses and royalties revenue for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2017 2016 $ % As Adjusted As Adjusted ES $ 78,388 $ 78,271 $ 117 % A&T 7,854 5,462 2,392 44 Total software licenses and royalties revenue $ 86,242 $ 83,733 $ 2,509 3 % Software license and royalties revenue increased 3% compared to the prior year. The increase in software licenses and royalties is attributed to additions to our implementation staff, which increased our capacity to deliver backlog. 33 Although the mix of new contracts between subscription-based and perpetual license arrangements may vary from quarter to quarter and year to year, we expect our longer-term software license growth rate to be negatively impacted by a growing number of customers choosing our subscription-based options, rather than purchasing the software under a traditional perpetual software license arrangement. Subscription-based arrangements result in lower software license revenue in the initial year as compared to perpetual software license arrangements but generate higher overall revenue over the term of the contract. Our new client mix in 2017 was approximately 53% selecting perpetual software license arrangements and approximately 47% selecting subscription-based arrangements compared to a client mix in 2016 of approximately 68% selecting perpetual software license arrangements and approximately 32% selecting subscription-based arrangements. Subscriptions. The following table sets forth a comparison of our subscriptions revenue for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2017 2016 $ % As Adjusted As Adjusted ES $ 164,317 $ 135,469 $ 28,848 21 % A&T 7,859 7,188 671 9 Total subscriptions revenue $ 172,176 $ 142,657 $ 29,519 21 % Subscription-based revenue primarily consists of revenue derived from our SaaS arrangements, which generally utilize the Tyler private cloud. As part of our subscription-based services, we also provide electronic document filing solutions (e-filing) that simplify the filing and management of court related documents for courts and law offices. E-filing revenue is derived from transaction fees and fixed fee arrangements. Subscription-based revenue increased 21% compared to 2016. New SaaS clients as well as existing clients who converted to our SaaS model provided the majority of the subscriptions revenue increase. In 2017, we added 374 new SaaS clients and 88 existing clients elected to convert to our SaaS model. The average contract size in 2017 were 64%and 44% higher than 2016 for new clients and clients converting to our SaaS model, respectively. Also, e-filing services contributed approximately $8.5 million of the subscriptions revenue increase in 2017. The increase in e-filing revenue is attributed to new e-filing clients, as well as increased volumes as the result of several existing clients mandating e-filing. Software services. The following table sets forth a comparison of our software services revenue for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2017 2016 $ % As Adjusted As Adjusted ES $ 161,245 $ 155,322 $ 5,923 4 % A&T 19,215 16,326 2,889 18 Total software services revenue $ 180,460 $ 171,648 $ 8,812 5 % Software services revenue primarily consists of professional services billed in connection with implementing our software, converting client data, training client personnel, custom development activities and consulting. New clients who purchase our proprietary software licenses generally also contract with us to provide for the related software services. Existing clients also periodically purchase additional training, consulting and minor programming services. Software services revenue grew 5% compared to the prior year period. This growth is partly due to additions to our implementation and support staff, which increased our capacity to deliver backlog and partially due to completing recognition of a majority of the acquisition-related deferred service revenue that was fair valued at rates below Tyler's average service rate in prior periods. 34 Maintenance. The following table sets forth a comparison of our maintenance revenue for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2017 2016 $ % As Adjusted As Adjusted ES $ 337,701 $ 302,409 $ 35,292 12 % A&T 21,618 18,589 3,029 16 Total maintenance revenue $ 359,319 $ 320,998 $ 38,321 12 % We provide maintenance and support services for our software products and certain third-party software. Maintenance revenue grew 12% compared to the prior year. Maintenance and support revenue increased mainly due to growth in our installed customer base from new software license sales as well as annual maintenance rate increases. In addition, the increase is partially due to completing recognition of a majority of the acquisition-related deferred maintenance revenue that was fair valued at rates below Tyler's average maintenance rate in prior periods. Appraisal services. The following table sets forth a comparison of our appraisal services revenue for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2017 2016 $ % ES $ $ $ % A&T 25,023 26,287 (1,264 ) (5 ) Total appraisal services revenue $ 25,023 $ 26,287 $ (1,264 ) (5 )% In 2017, appraisal services revenue decreased 5% compared to the prior year primarily due to the successful completion of several large revaluation projects in mid-2017. The appraisal services business is somewhat cyclical and driven in part by statutory revaluation cycles in various states. Cost of Revenues and Gross Margins The following table sets forth a comparison of the key components of our cost of revenues for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2017 2016 $ % Software licenses and royalties $ 3,321 $ 2,964 $ 357 12 % Acquired software 21,686 22,235 (549 ) N/M Software services, maintenance and subscriptions 387,634 348,939 38,695 11 Appraisal services 16,286 16,411 (125 ) (1 ) Hardware and other 12,595 10,143 2,452 24 Total cost of revenues $ 441,522 $ 400,692 $ 40,830 10 % 35 The following table sets forth a comparison of gross margin percentage by revenue type for the years ended December 31: Gross margin percentage 2017 2016 Change As Adjusted As Adjusted Software licenses, royalties and acquired software 71.0 % 69.9 % 1.1 % Software services, maintenance and subscriptions 45.6 45.1 0.5 Appraisal services 34.9 37.6 (2.7 ) Hardware and other 28.8 30.3 (1.5 ) Overall gross margin 47.5 % 47.3 % 0.2 % Software licenses, royalties and acquired software . Cost of software licenses, royalties and acquired software is primarily comprised of amortization expense for acquired software and third-party software costs. We do not have any direct costs associated with royalties. The gross margin increase of 1.1% is due to higher incremental margins on software license revenues, in part due to slightly lower amortization expense for acquired software resulting from acquisitions. Software services, maintenance and subscriptions . Cost of software services, maintenance and subscriptions primarily consists of personnel costs related to installation of our software, conversion of client data, training client personnel and support activities and various other services such as custom client development and on-going operation of SaaS and e-filing arrangements. In 2017, the software services, maintenance and subscriptions gross margin increased 0.5% compared to the prior year. Our implementation and support staff grew by 220 employees in 2017. Many of these additions occurred in early to mid-2017 and are contributing to revenue in 2017. Costs related to maintenance and various other services such as SaaS and e-filing typically grow at a slower rate than related revenue due to leverage in the utilization of support and maintenance staff and economies of scale. Reduced recognition of acquisition-related deferred revenue associated with software services and maintenance obligations completed in prior periods also resulted in higher gross margins. Appraisal services . Appraisal services revenue comprised approximately 3.0% of total revenue. The appraisal services gross margin decreased 2.7% compared to 2016 due to the reduction in higher margin projects substantially complete by early 2017 and lower volume of revenues in the current period to cover relatively fixed costs. Our 2017 blended gross margin slightly increased 0.2% compared to 2016. Our overall gross margin was positively impacted by a product mix that included more higher-margin recurring revenues from subscriptions and maintenance and improved margin on revenues from software licenses offset by the lower-margin revenues from appraisal services as described above. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses The following table sets forth a comparison of selling, general and administrative expenses for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2017 2016 $ % As Adjusted As Adjusted Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 175,914 $ 165,176 $ 10,738 7 % SG&A as a percentage of revenue was 20.9 % in 2017 compared to 21.7 % in 2016. SG&A expense increased approximately 7% mainly due to compensation costs related to increased staff levels, merit increases and higher stock compensation expense. We added 28 SG&A employees, mainly to our sales and finance teams in 2017. In addition, our 2017 stock compensation expense rose $4.7 million, mainly due to increases in our stock price over the last few years. 36 Research and Development Expense The following table sets forth a comparison of our research and development expense for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2017 2016 $ % Research and development expense $ 47,324 $ 43,154 $ 4,170 10 % Research and development expense consists mainly of costs associated with development of new products and technologies from which we do not currently generate revenue, as well as costs related to the ongoing development efforts for Microsoft Dynamics AX. Our contractual research and development commitment to develop public sector functionality for Microsoft Dynamics AX was amended in March 2016, which significantly reduced our development commitment through March 2018. However, we continue to provide sustained engineering and technical support for the public sector functionality within Dynamics AX. License and maintenance royalties for all applicable domestic and international sales of Dynamics AX to public sector entities will continue under the terms of the contract. Research and development expense increased 10% in 2017 compared to the prior year period, mainly due to research and development efforts related to new Tyler product development initiatives, primarily in our public safety solutions, offset by reduced development efforts for Microsoft Dynamics AX. As a result of the Microsoft Dynamics AX amendment, we have redeployed certain development resources to enhance functionality on several existing solutions and these costs are being recorded in cost of revenues software services, maintenance and subscriptions. Amortization of Customer and Trade Name Intangibles The following table sets forth a comparison of amortization of customer and trade name intangibles for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2017 2016 $ % As Adjusted As Adjusted Amortization of customer and trade name intangibles $ 13,381 $ 13,202 $ 179 1 % Amortization of customer and trade name intangibles increased due to the impact of intangibles added with several small acquisitions completed in 2016 and 2017. Other The following table sets forth a comparison of other income (expense), net for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2017 2016 $ % Other income (expense), net $ 698 $ (1,998 ) $ 2,696 N/M Other income (expense) is comprised of interest expense and non-usage and other fees associated with our revolving credit agreement as well as interest income from invested cash. Other income (expense), net increased compared to the prior period is attributed to significantly lower debt levels in the current period, as we repaid all borrowings under the revolving line of credit in January 2017, and correspondingly higher levels of cash investments. 37 Income Tax (Benefit)Provision The following table sets forth a comparison of our income tax provision for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2017 2016 $ % As Adjusted As Adjusted Income tax provision $ (6,115 ) $ 21,957 $ (28,072 ) (128 )% Effective income tax rate (3.7 )% 16.2 % The decrease in the income tax provision during 2017 was primarily driven by the enactment of the Tax Act which reduced the statutory U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%. The impact of the rate reduction on our 2017 income tax provision is a $26.0 million (as adjusted) tax benefit due to the remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities. See Note 7 - "Income Tax" for additional information related to the Tax Act. The income tax provision is also lower due to the increase in the excess tax benefits from stock option exercises as compared to prior period. We experienced significant stock option exercise activity in 2017 and 2016 that generated excess tax benefits of $40.6 million and $29.6 million , respectively. The change in the effective income tax rate in 2017 compared to 2016 is also primarily attributable to the impact of the Tax Act and the changes in excess tax benefits related to stock option exercises realized. Excluding the impact of the Tax Act and the excess tax benefits, our income tax provision and effective tax rate in 2017 would have been $60.5 million (as adjusted) and 37.0% , respectively. Excluding the excess tax benefits, our income tax provision and effective tax rate in 2016 would have been $51.5 million (as adjusted) and 38.0% respectively. The effective income tax rates in both 2017 and 2016 differed from the statutory United States federal corporate income tax rate of 35% due to state income taxes, the domestic production activities deduction, the research tax credit, non-deductible share-based compensation expense, disqualifying incentive stock option dispositions, and other non-deductible business expenses. FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY As of December 31, 2018 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $134.3 million compared to $185.9 million at December 31, 2017 . We also had $97.7 million invested in investment grade corporate bonds, municipal bonds and asset-backed securities as of December 31, 2018 compared to $63.8 million at December 31, 2017 . These investments mature between 2018 through 2022 and we intend to hold these investments until maturity. Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on deposit with several domestic banks and money market funds. As of December 31, 2018 , we had no outstanding borrowings and no outstanding letters of credit. We believe our revolving line of credit, cash from operating activities, cash on hand and access to the credit markets provide us with sufficient flexibility to meet our long-term financial needs. The following table sets forth a summary of cash flows for the years ended December 31: ($ in thousands) 2018 2017 2016 Cash flows provided (used) by: Operating activities $ 250,203 $ 195,755 $ 191,859 Investing activities (238,255 ) (85,395 ) (50,720 ) Financing activities (63,595 ) 39,415 (138,075 ) Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents $ (51,647 ) $ 149,775 $ 3,064 Net cash provided by operating activities continues to be our primary source of funds to finance operating needs and capital expenditures. Other potential capital resources include cash on hand, public and private issuances of debt or equity securities, and bank borrowings. It is possible that our ability to access the capital and credit markets in the future may be limited by economic conditions or other factors. We currently believe that cash provided by operating activities, cash on hand and available credit are sufficient to fund our working capital requirements, capital expenditures, income tax obligations, and share repurchases for at least the next twelve months. 38 In 2018 , operating activities provided cash of $250.2 million compared to $195.8 million in 2017 . Operating activities that provided cash were primarily comprised of net income of $147.5 million , non-cash depreciation and amortization charges of $61.8 million and non-cash share-based compensation expense of $52.7 million . Working capital, excluding cash, increased approximately $14.0 million due to higher accounts receivable because of an increase in unbilled receivables attributed to revenues recognized from prior billings, higher accounts receivable related to annual maintenance and subscription billings, and the deferred taxes associated with stock option activity during the period. These increases were offset slightly by the growth in deferred revenue balances and timing of income tax payments. In general, changes in the balance of deferred revenue are cyclical and primarily driven by the timing of our maintenance and subscription billings. Our renewal dates occur throughout the year, but our largest maintenance renewal cycles occur in the second and fourth quarters. Days sales outstanding in accounts receivable were 111 days at December 31, 2018 , compared to 102 days at December 31, 2017 . The increase in our DSO is mainly due to an increase in unbilled receivables attributed to the increase in software license revenue for which we have recognized revenue at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer, but the billing has not yet been submitted to the customer. An increase in software services contracts accounted for using progress-to-completion method of revenue recognition in which the services are performed in one accounting period, but the billing normally occurs subsequently in another accounting period also contributed to the increase in DSO. Furthermore, our maintenance billing cycle typically peaks at its highest level in June and second highest level in December of each year and is followed by collections in the subsequent quarter. DSO is calculated based on quarter-end accounts receivable (excluding long-term receivables but including unbilled receivables) divided by the quotient of annualized quarterly revenues divided by 360 days. Investing activities used cash of $238.3 million in 2018 compared to $85.4 million in 2017 . We invested $115.6 million and received $81.2 million in proceeds from investment grade corporate bonds, municipal bonds and asset-backed securities with maturity dates ranging from 2018 through 2022 . Approximately $27.4 million was invested in property and equipment, primarily for computer equipment, furniture and fixtures in support of internal growth, particularly with respect to our cloud-based offerings. We paid $2.2 million for the expansion of existing buildings. On December 7, 2018, we acquired certain assets and intellectual property of SceneDoc, Inc., a company that provides mobile-first, SaaS field reporting for law enforcement agencies. The total purchase price was approximately $6.2 million , of which $5.4 million was paid in cash and approximately $759,000 accrued for a working capital holdback. On October 1, 2018, we acquired all of the equity interests of MobileEyes, a company that develops software to improve public safety by supporting fire prevention and suppression, emergency response, and structural safety. The total purchase price was approximately $5.3 million in cash. On August 31, 2018, we acquired all of the assets of CaseloadPRO, a company that provides a fully featured probation case management system. The purchase price of $9.3 million was paid in cash. On April 30, 2018, we acquired all of the capital stock of Socrata, a company that provides open data and data-as-a-service solutions including cloud-based data integration, visualization, analysis, and reporting solutions for state and local government agencies. The purchase price, net of cash acquired of $1.7 million , was $147.6 million paid in cash. On April 30, 2018, we acquired all of the equity interests of Sage, a cybersecurity company offering a suite of services that supports an entire cybersecurity lifecycle, including program development, education and training, technical testing, advisory services, and digital forensics. The total purchase price was $11.6 million paid in cash. These expenditures were funded from cash generated from operations. In 2017, we invested $59.8 million and received $28.8 million in proceeds from investment grade corporate bonds, municipal bonds and asset-backed securities. Approximately $43.1 million was invested in property and equipment. We purchased an office building in Latham, New York for approximately $2.9 million and paid $2.1 million for building improvements. We paid $19.4 million for construction to expand our office building in Yarmouth, Maine. We also made three small acquisitions with a combined cash purchase price of $11.3 million. The remaining additions were for computer equipment, furniture and fixtures in support of internal growth, particularly with respect to our cloud-based offerings. These expenditures were funded from cash generated from operations. Financing activities used cash of $63.6 million in 2018 compared to cash provided of $39.4 million in 2017 . Financing activities in 2018 were comprised of collections of $83.0 million from stock option exercises and employee stock purchase plan activity. We also purchased approximately 781,000 shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $150.1 million , of which $3.5 million was accrued as of December 31, 2018 . Financing activities in 2017 were comprised of $10.0 million net payments on our revolving line of credit offset by collections of $56.9 million from stock option exercises and employee stock purchase plan activity. We also purchased approximately 44,000 shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $6.6 million. In February 2019, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of an additional 1.5 million shares of Tyler common stock. The repurchase program, which was approved by our board of directors, was announced in October 2002, and was amended at various times from 2003 through 2019. As of February 20, 2019 , we had remaining authorization to repurchase up to 2.7 million additional shares of our common stock. Our share repurchase program allows us to repurchase shares at our discretion. Market conditions influence the timing of the buybacks and the number of shares repurchased, as well as the volume of employee stock option exercises. 39 Share repurchases are generally funded using our existing cash balances and borrowings under our credit facility and may occur through open market purchases and transactions structured through investment banking institutions, privately negotiated transactions and/or other mechanisms. There is no expiration date specified for the authorization and we intend to repurchase stock under the plan from time to time. On November 16, 2015 , we entered into a $300.0 million Credit Agreement (the Credit Facility) with the various lenders party thereto and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent. The Credit Facility provides for a revolving credit line of up to $ 300.0 million , including a $10.0 million sublimit for letters of credit. The Credit Facility matures on November 16, 2020 . Borrowings under the Credit Facility may be used for general corporate purposes, including working capital requirements, acquisitions and share repurchases. Borrowings under the Credit Facility bear interest at a rate of either (1) Wells Fargo Banks prime rate (subject to certain higher rate determinations) plus a margin of 0.25% to 1.00% or (2) the 30, 60, 90 or 180 day LIBOR rate plus a margin of 1.25% to 2.00% . As of December 31, 2018 , our interest rate was 5.75% under the prime rate option or approximately 3.77% under the 30-day LIBOR option. The Credit Facility is secured by substantially all of our assets. The Credit Facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios and other financial conditions and prohibits us from making certain investments, advances, cash dividends or loans, and limits incurrence of additional indebtedness and liens. As of December 31, 2018 , we were in compliance with those covenants . As of December 31, 2018 , we had no outstanding borrowings and had unused borrowing capacity of $300.0 million under the Credit Facility . We paid interest of $770,000 in 2018 , $804,000 in 2017 , and $1.9 million in 2016 . We paid income taxes, net of refunds received, of $6.8 million in 2018 , $36.0 million in 2017 , and $30.2 million in 2016 . In 2018 , we experienced significant stock option exercise activity that generated net tax benefits of $32.5 million and reduced tax payments accordingly. In 2017 and 2016, excess tax benefits were $40.6 million and $29.6 million , respectively. We anticipate that 2019 capital spending will be between $54 million and $56 million, including approximately $16 million related to real estate and approximately $6 million of capitalized software development. We expect the majority of the other capital spending will consist of computer equipment and software for infrastructure replacements and expansion. Capital spending is expected to be funded from existing cash balances and cash flows from operations. On January 31, 2019, we entered in to a Merger agreement to acquire 100% of the equity interests of MP Holdings, Parent, Inc. dba MicroPact ("MicroPact") for the anticipated purchase price of $185 million in cash at closing (subject to possible adjustments and holdback) plus contingent consideration not to exceed $10 million. The completion of the acquisition is subject to customary closing conditions, including the expiration or the termination of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act. The Federal Trade Commission granted early termination of that waiting period effective February 15, 2019. The cash portion of the merger consideration will be funded from cash on hand and proceeds from the revolving credit facility. On February 1, 2019, we acquired all the assets of Civic, LLC ("MyCivic"), a company that provides software solutions to connect communities. The purchase price is $ 3.7 million of which $3.6 million was paid in cash and approximately $90,000 was accrued for a working capital holdback. From time to time we engage in discussions with potential acquisition candidates. In order to pursue such opportunities, which could require significant commitments of capital, we may be required to incur debt or to issue additional potentially dilutive securities in the future. No assurance can be given as to our future acquisition opportunities and how such opportunities will be financed. We lease office facilities, as well as transportation and other equipment used in our operations under non-cancelable operating lease agreements expiring at various dates through 2026 . Summarized in the table below are our obligations to make future payments under the Credit Facility and lease obligations at December 31, 2018 (in thousands): 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Thereafter Total Revolving line of credit $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Lease obligations 5,994 5,146 3,976 1,925 1,164 2,132 20,337 Total future payment obligations $ 5,994 $ 5,146 $ 3,976 $ 1,925 $ 1,164 $ 2,132 $ 20,337 As of December 31, 2018 , we do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, guarantees to third-parties or material purchase commitments, except for the operating lease commitments listed above. 40 CAPITALIZATION At December 31, 2018 , our capitalization consisted of no outstanding borrowings and $1.3 billion of shareholders equity.