Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in this Annual Report. We may make forward-looking statements from time to time, both written and oral. We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially from those projected in any such forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. Risks Associated with Selling Products and Services into the Public Sector Marketplace Declining general economic conditions and uncertainties in the global credit crisis and equity markets may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The financial market crisis has continued to disrupt credit and equity markets worldwide. Local and state governments may face financial pressures that could in turn affect our growth rate in 2011. We cannot assure you local and state spending levels will be unaffected by the global credit crisis and if budget shortfalls occur they may negatively impact local and state information technology spending and could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results, and financial condition. 10 Table of Contents Selling products and services into the public sector poses unique challenges. We derive substantially all of our revenues from sales of software and services to state, county and city governments, other municipal agencies, and other public entities. We expect that sales to public sector customers will continue to account for substantially all of our revenues in the future. We face many risks and challenges associated with contracting with governmental entities, including: limitations on governmental resources placed by budgetary constraints, which in some circumstances, may provide for a termination of executed contracts because of a lack of future funding; the sales cycle of governmental agencies may be complex and lengthy; payments under some public sector contracts are subject to achieving implementation milestones, and we have had, and may in the future have, differences with customers as to whether milestones have been achieved; political resistance to the concept of government agencies contracting with third parties to provide information technology solutions; changes in legislation authorizing governments contracting with third parties; the internal review process by governmental agencies for bid acceptance; changes to the bidding procedures by governmental agencies; changes in governmental administrations and personnel; and the general effect of economic downturns and other changes on local governments ability to spend public funds on outsourcing arrangements. Each of these risks is outside our control. If we fail to adequately adapt to these risks and uncertainties, our financial performance could be adversely affected. A decline in information technology spending may result in a decrease in our revenues or lower our growth rate. A decline in the demand for information technology among our current and prospective customers may result in decreased revenues or a lower growth rate for us because our sales depend, in part, on our customers level of funding for new or additional information technology systems and services. Moreover, demand for our solutions may be reduced by a decline in overall demand for computer software and services. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to increase or maintain our revenues. The open bidding process for governmental contracts creates uncertainty in predicting future contract awards. Many governmental agencies purchase products and services through an open bidding process. Generally, a governmental entity will publish an established list of requirements requesting potential vendors to propose solutions for the established requirements. To respond successfully to these requests for proposals, we must accurately estimate our cost structure for servicing a proposed contract, the time required to establish operations for the proposed client, and the likely terms of any other third party proposals submitted. We cannot guarantee that we will win any bids in the future through the request for proposal process, or that any winning bids will ultimately result in contracts on favorable terms. Our failure to secure contracts through the open bidding process, or to secure such contracts on favorable terms, may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents We face significant competition from other vendors and potential new entrants into our markets. We believe we are a leading provider of integrated solutions for the public sector. However, we face competition from a variety of software vendors that offer products and services similar to those offered by us, as well as from companies offering to develop custom software. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including: the attractiveness of the business strategy and services we offer; the breadth of products and services we offer; features and functionality of our software; price; quality of products and service; technological innovation; name recognition; our ability to modify existing products and services to accommodate the particular needs of our customers; and our financial strength and stability. We believe the market is highly fragmented with a large number of competitors that vary in size, primary computer platforms, and overall product scope. Our competitors include consulting firms, publicly held companies that focus on selected segments of the public sector market, and a significant number of smaller, privately held companies. Certain competitors have greater technical, marketing, and financial resources than we do. We cannot assure you that such competitors will not develop products or offer services that are superior to our products or services or that achieve greater market acceptance. We also compete with internal, centralized information service departments of governmental entities, which require us to persuade the end-user to stop the internal service and outsource to us. In addition, our customers may elect in the future to provide information management services internally through new or existing departments, which could reduce the market for our services. We could face additional competition as other established and emerging companies enter the public sector software application market and new products and technologies are introduced. Increased competition could result in pricing pressure, fewer customer orders, reduced gross margins, and loss of market share. In addition, current and potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third-parties, thereby increasing the ability of their products to address the needs of our prospective customers. It is possible that new competitors or alliances among current and new competitors may emerge and rapidly gain significant market share. Further, competitive pressures could require us to reduce the price of our software licenses and related services. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors, and the failure to do so would have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results, and financial condition. Fixed- price contracts may affect our profits. Some of our present contracts are on a fixed-priced basis, which can lead to various risks, including: the failure to accurately estimate the resources and time required for an engagement; the failure to effectively manage governmental agencies and other customers expectations regarding the scope of services to be delivered for an estimated price; and the failure to timely complete fixed-price engagements within budget to the customers satisfaction. If we do not adequately assess these and other risks, we may be subject to cost overruns and penalties, which may harm our business, financial condition, or results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Changes in the insurance markets may affect our ability to win some contract awards and may lead to increased expenses. Some of our customers, primarily those for our property appraisal services, require that we secure performance bonds before they will select us as their vendor. The number of qualified, high-rated insurance companies that offer performance bonds has decreased in recent years, while the costs associated with securing these bonds has increased dramatically. In addition, we are generally required to issue a letter of credit as security for the issuance of a performance bond. Our current credit facility contains a $25.0 million sublimit for letters of credit. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to secure such performance bonds in the future on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. Our inability to obtain performance bonds on favorable terms or at all could impact our future ability to win some contract awards, particularly large property appraisal services contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Recent volatility in the stock markets, increasing shareholder litigation, the adoption of expansive legislation that redefines corporate controls (in particular, legislation adopted to prevent future corporate and accounting scandals), as well as other factors have recently led to significant increases in premiums for directors and officers liability insurance. The number of insurers offering directors and officers insurance at competitive rates has also decreased in recent years. Volatility of the insurance market may result in future increases in our general and administrative expenses, which may adversely affect future operating results. Risks Associated with Our Periodic Results and Stock Price As with other software vendors, we may be required to delay revenue recognition into future periods, which could adversely impact our operating results. We have in the past had to, and in the future may have to, defer revenue recognition for license fees due to several factors, including whether: license agreements include applications that are under development or other undelivered elements; we must deliver services that are considered essential to the functionality of the software, including significant modifications, customization, or complex interfaces, which could delay product delivery or acceptance; the transaction involves acceptance criteria; the transaction involves contingent payment terms or fees; we are required to accept a fixed-fee services contract; or we are required to provide extended payment terms. Because of the factors listed above and other specific requirements under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States for software revenue recognition, we must have very precise terms in our license agreements in order to recognize revenue when we initially deliver and install software or perform services. Negotiation of mutually acceptable terms and conditions can extend the sales cycle, and sometimes we do not obtain terms and conditions that permit revenue recognition at the time of delivery or even as work on the project is completed. We may experience fluctuations in quarterly revenue that could adversely impact our stock price and our operating results. Our actual revenues in a quarter could fall below expectations, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. Our revenues and operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter. Revenues from license fees in any quarter depend substantially upon our contracting activity and our ability to recognize revenues in that quarter in accordance with our revenue recognition policies. Our quarterly revenue may fluctuate and may be difficult to forecast for a variety of reasons, including the following: a significant number of our prospective customers decisions regarding whether to enter into license agreements with us may be made within the last few weeks of each quarter; the size of license transactions can vary significantly; customers may unexpectedly postpone or cancel procurement processes due to changes in their strategic priorities, project objectives, budget or personnel; customer purchasing processes vary significantly and a customers internal approval, expenditure authorization and contract negotiation processes can be difficult and time consuming to complete, even after selection of a vendor; 13 Table of Contents the number, timing, and significance of software product enhancements and new software product announcements by us and our competitors may affect purchase decisions; we may have to defer revenues under our revenue recognition policies; and customers may choose our subscription-based arrangements which result in lower software license revenues in the initial year as compared to traditional perpetual software license arrangements but generate higher overall subscription-based revenues over the term of the contract. Fluctuation in our quarterly revenues may adversely affect our operating results. In each fiscal quarter our expense levels, operating costs, and hiring plans are based to some extent on projections of future revenues and are relatively fixed. If our actual revenues fall below expectations, we could experience a reduction in operating results. Increases in service revenue as a percentage of total revenues could decrease overall margins and adversely affect our operating results. We realize lower margins on software and appraisal service revenues than on license revenue. The majority of our contracts include both software licenses and professional services. Therefore, an increase in the percentage of software service and appraisal service revenue compared to license revenue could have a detrimental impact on our overall gross margins and could adversely affect operating results. Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock may be volatile and may be significantly affected by many different factors. Some examples of factors that can have a significant impact on our stock price include: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; announcements of technological innovations, new products, or new contracts by us or our competitors; developments with respect to patents, copyrights, or other proprietary rights; conditions and trends in the software and other technology industries; adoption of new accounting standards affecting the software industry; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; and general market conditions and other factors. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices for the common stock of technology companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular companys securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. We cannot assure you that similar litigation will not occur in the future with respect to us. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of managements attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results, and financial condition. Financial Outlook. From time to time in press releases and otherwise, we may publish forecasts or other forward-looking statements regarding our results, including estimated revenues or net earnings. Any forecast of our future performance reflects various assumptions. These assumptions are subject to significant uncertainties, and as a matter of course, any number of them may prove to be incorrect. Further, the achievement of any forecast depends on numerous risks and other factors (including those described in this discussion), many of which are beyond our control. As a result, we cannot be certain that our performance will be consistent with any management forecasts or that the variation from such forecasts will not be material and adverse. Current and potential stockholders are cautioned not to base their entire analysis of our business and prospects upon isolated predictions, but instead are encouraged to utilize our entire publicly available mix of historical and forward-looking information, as well as other available information regarding us, our products and services, and the software industry when evaluating our prospective results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Risks Associated with Our Software Products Our products are complex and we run the risk of errors or defects with new product introductions or enhancements. Software products as complex as those developed by us may contain errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Although we have not experienced material adverse effects resulting from any such defects or errors to date, we cannot assure you that material defects and errors will not be found after commencement of product shipments. Any such defects could result in loss of revenues or delay market acceptance. Our license agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential liability claims. It is possible, however, that we may not always be able to negotiate such provisions in our contracts with customers or that the limitation of liability provisions contained in our license agreements may not be effective as a result of existing or future federal, state or local laws, ordinances, or judicial decisions. Although we maintain errors and omissions and general liability insurance, and we try to structure our contracts to include limitations on liability, we cannot assure you that a successful claim could not be made or would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We must respond to rapid technological changes to be competitive. The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards in computer hardware and software technology, changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. The introduction of products embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. As a result, our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to continue to enhance existing products and develop and introduce in a timely manner or acquire new products that keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer requirements, and achieve market acceptance. We cannot assure you that we will successfully identify new product opportunities and develop and bring new products to market in a timely and cost-effective manner. Further, we cannot assure you that the products, capabilities, or technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. If we are unable to develop or acquire on a timely and cost-effective basis new software products or enhancements to existing products, or if such new products or enhancements do not achieve market acceptance, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. We may be unable to protect our proprietary rights. Many of our product and service offerings incorporate proprietary information, trade secrets, know-how, and other intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of contracts, copyrights, and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our technology. We cannot be certain that we have taken all appropriate steps to deter misappropriation of our intellectual property. In addition, there has been significant litigation in the United States in recent years involving intellectual property rights. We are not currently involved in any material intellectual property litigation. We may, however, be a party to intellectual property litigation in the future to protect our proprietary information, trade secrets, know-how, and other intellectual property rights. Further, we cannot assure you that third parties will not assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us in the future with respect to current or future products. Any claims or litigation, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and result in costly litigation and diversion of managements attention. Further, any claims and litigation could cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements. Such royalty or licensing arrangements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Thus, litigation to defend and enforce our intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, regardless of the final outcome of such litigation. Risks Associated with Our Growth Strategy and Other General Corporate Risks We may experience difficulties in executing our acquisition strategy. In addition, a significant portion of our growth has resulted from strategic acquisitions in new product and geographic markets. Although our focus is on internal growth, we will continue to identify and pursue strategic acquisitions and alliances with suitable candidates. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully integrate future acquisitions and other strategic alliances into our operations. Acquisitions may involve a number of special risks, including diversion of managements attention, failure to retain key acquired personnel, unanticipated events or circumstances, legal liabilities, and amortization of certain acquired intangible assets. Some or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Although we conduct due diligence reviews of potential acquisition candidates, we may not identify all material liabilities 15 Table of Contents or risks related to acquisition candidates. There can be no assurance that any such strategic acquisitions or alliances will be accomplished on favorable terms or will result in profitable operations. Our failure to properly manage growth could adversely affect our business. We have expanded our operations since 1998, when we entered the business of providing software solutions and services to the public sector. We intend to continue expansion in the foreseeable future to pursue existing and potential market opportunities. This growth places a significant demand on management and operational resources. In order to manage growth effectively, we must implement and improve our operational systems, procedures, and controls on a timely basis. We must also identify, hire, train, and manage key managerial and technical personnel. If we fail to implement these systems or employ and retain such qualified personnel, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We may be unable to hire, integrate, and retain qualified personnel. Our continued success will depend upon the availability and performance of our key management, sales, marketing, customer support, and product development personnel. The loss of key management or technical personnel could adversely affect us. We believe that our continued success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract, integrate, and retain such personnel. We have at times experienced and continue to experience difficulty in recruiting qualified personnel. Competition for qualified software development, sales, and other personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations, and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new Securities and Exchange Commission regulations and New York Stock Exchange rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. The costs required to comply with such evolving laws are difficult to predict. To maintain high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards. This investment may result in an unforeseen increase in general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities, which may harm our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Historically, we have not paid dividends on our common stock. We have not declared or paid a cash dividend since we entered the business of providing software solutions and services to the public sector in 1998. Additionally, our bank credit agreement contains restrictions on the payment of cash dividends. We intend to retain earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, and Delaware law could deter takeover attempts. Our board of directors may issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock and may determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions, including voting and conversion rights, of these shares of preferred stock. These determinations may be made without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. In addition, some provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, and of the Delaware General Corporation Law could also delay, prevent, or make more difficult a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 16 Table of Contents ITEM 2. PROPERTIES. We occupy a total of approximately 529,000 square feet of office space, 209,000 square feet of which we own. One of the office buildings we own (approximately 84,000 square feet) has been leased to third-party tenants. The lease agreements with respect to approximately 70% of this leased space expire in July 2011 and the remaining agreement expires in June 2013. Upon expiration of these agreements we expect to begin occupying the facility. We lease our principal executive office located in Dallas, Texas, and own or lease offices for our major operations in Colorado, Iowa, Maine, Ohio, Texas and Washington. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. On November 3, 2008, a putative collective action complaint was filed against us in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas (the Court) on behalf of current and former telephone and remote customer support personnel (Category 1), computer hardware and software set up and maintenance personnel (Category 2), implementation personnel (Category 3), sales support personnel (Category 4), and quality assurance analysts (Category 5). The petition alleges that we misclassified these groups of employees as exempt rather than non-exempt under the Fair Labor Standards Act and that we therefore failed to properly pay overtime wages. The suit was initiated by six former employees working out of our Longview, Texas, office and seeks to recover damages in the form of lost overtime pay, liquidated damages equal to the amount of lost overtime pay, interest, costs, and attorneys fees. On June 23, 2009, the Court issued an Order granting plaintiffs motion for conditional certification for the purpose of providing notice to potential plaintiffs about the litigation. Accordingly, notice was sent to all current and former employees who worked in the foregoing job classifications during the applicable time periods. On October 26, 2009, the opt in period for plaintiffs and potential plaintiffs closed. Since that time, a number of plaintiffs voluntarily withdrew their petition. During a mediation which occurred during the second quarter of 2010, we reached a conditional settlement in principle with all of the plaintiffs in Categories 1, 2, 4, and 5 (24 plaintiffs in the aggregate). The terms of the settlement agreement, which are immaterial and confidential, were approved by the Court during the fourth quarter of 2010. In addition, during a mediation that occurred in January 2011, we reached a conditional settlement in principle with the remaining plaintiffs in Category 3 (30 plaintiffs in the aggregate). The terms of the settlement agreement, which are immaterial and confidential, are subject to Court approval. On June 27, 2008, we settled outstanding litigation related to two Stock Purchase Warrants (the Warrants) owned by Bank of America, N. A. (BANA). As disclosed in prior SEC filings, the Warrants entitled BANA to acquire 1.6 million shares of Tyler common stock at an exercise price of $2.50 per share. The Warrants expired on September 10, 2007. Prior to their expiration, BANA attempted to exercise the Warrants; however, the parties disputed whether or not BANAs exercise was effective. We filed suit for declaratory judgment seeking a courts determination on the matter, and BANA asserted numerous counterclaims against us, including breach of contract and misrepresentation. Following court-ordered mediation, in July 2008, BANA paid us $2.0 million and we issued to BANA 801,883 restricted shares of Tyler common stock. Accordingly, as a result of the settlement, we recorded a non-cash legal settlement related to warrants charge of $9.0 million, which was not tax deductible. Other than ordinary course, routine litigation incidental to our business and except as described in this Annual Report, there are no material legal proceedings pending to which we are party or to which any of our properties are subject. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS. Not applicable. 17 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol TYL. At December 31, 2010, we had approximately 2,037 stockholders of record. A number of our stockholders hold their shares in street name; therefore, there are substantially more than 2,037 beneficial owners of our common stock. The following table shows, for the calendar periods indicated, the high and low sales price per share of our common stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange. High Low 2009: First Quarter $ 14.79 $ 11.35 Second Quarter 17.76 14.17 Third Quarter 17.62 14.51 Fourth Quarter 21.09 16.76 2010: First Quarter $ 21.52 $ 17.13 Second Quarter 19.83 15.44 Third Quarter 20.46 15.00 Fourth Quarter 22.19 19.49 2011: First Quarter (through February 22, 2011) $ 21.55 $ 19.99 We did not pay any cash dividends in 2010 or 2009. Our bank credit agreement contains restrictions on the payment of cash dividends. We intend to retain earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business, and, therefore, we do not anticipate declaring a cash dividend in the foreseeable future. The following table summarizes certain information related to our stock option plan and our Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). There are no warrants or rights related to our equity compensation plans as of December 31, 2010. Number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity Number of securities to be Weighted average compensation plans issued upon exercise of exercise price of (excluding securities outstanding options, outstanding reflected in initial warrants and rights as of options, warrants column as Plan Category December 31, 2010 and rights of December 31, 2010) Equity compensation plans approved by security shareholders: Stock options 5,835,465 $ 12.74 4,267,700 ESPP 26,782 17.65 222,244 Equity compensation plans not approved by security shareholders 5,862,247 $ 12.76 4,489,944 18 Table of Contents During 2010, we purchased approximately 3.6 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $65.8 million. A summary of the repurchase activity during 2010 is as follows: Additional Maximum number of number of shares shares that may be Total number authorized that Average repurchased of shares may be price paid under current Period repurchased repurchased per share authorization Three months ended March 31 129,000 $ 18.75 2,134,000 Three months ended June 30 739,000 16.85 1,395,000 Additional authorization by the board of directors 2,000,000 3,395,000 Three months ended September 30 2,482,000 18.81 913,000 Additional authorization by the board of directors 2,000,000 2,913,000 October 1 through October 31 2,913,000 November 1 through November 30 188,000 20.28 2,725,000 December 1 through December 31 21,000 20.52 2,704,000 Total year ended December 31, 2010 3,559,000 4,000,000 $ 18.49 The repurchase program, which was approved by our board of directors, was announced in October 2002, and was amended in April and July 2003, October 2004, October 2005, May 2007, May 2008, October 2008, May 2009, July 2010 and October 2010. Our board of directors authorized the repurchase of an additional 2.0 million shares on July 27, 2010 and an additional 2.0 million shares on October 26, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, we had remaining authorization to repurchase up to 2.7 million additional shares of our common stock. There is no expiration date specified for the authorization and we intend to repurchase stock under the plan from time to time. 19 Table of Contents Performance Graph The following Performance Graph and related information shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each as amended, except to the extent that we specifically incorporate it by reference into such filing. The following table compares total Shareholder returns for Tyler over the last five years to the Standard and Poors 500 Stock Index and the Standard and Poors 600 Information Technology Index assuming a $100 investment made on December 31, 2005. Each of the three measures of cumulative total return assumes reinvestment of dividends. The stock performance shown on the graph below is not necessarily indicative of future price performance. Company / Index 12/31/05 12/31/06 12/31/07 12/31/08 12/31/09 12/31/10 Tyler Technologies, Inc. 100 160.14 146.81 136.45 226.77 236.45 S&P 500 Index 100 115.79 122.16 76.96 97.33 111.99 S&P 600 Information Technology Index 100 109.43 119.61 71.32 105.67 131.66 20 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA. (In thousands, except per share data) FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS DATA: Revenues $ 288,628 $ 290,286 $ 265,101 $ 219,796 $ 195,303 Costs and expenses: Cost of revenues 160,311 161,523 155,314 135,371 120,499 Selling, general and administrative expenses 69,480 70,115 62,923 51,724 48,389 Research and development expense 13,971 11,159 7,286 4,443 3,322 Amortization of customer and trade name intangibles 3,225 2,705 2,438 1,478 1,318 Non-cash legal settlement related to warrants (1) 9,045 Operating income 41,641 44,784 28,095 26,780 21,775 Other (expense) income, net (1,742 ) (146 ) 1,181 1,800 1,080 Income from operations before income taxes 39,899 44,638 29,276 28,580 22,855 Income tax provision 14,845 17,628 14,414 11,079 8,493 Net income $ 25,054 $ 27,010 $ 14,862 $ 17,501 $ 14,362 Net income per diluted share $ 0.71 $ 0.74 $ 0.38 $ 0.42 $ 0.34 Weighted average diluted shares 35,528 36,624 39,184 41,352 41,868 STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS DATA: Cash flows provided by operating activities $ 35,350 $ 42,941 $ 47,802 $ 34,111 $ 26,804 Cash flows used by investing activities (8,694 ) (13,658 ) (9,554 ) (34,275 ) (24,326 ) Cash flows used by financing activities (34,238 ) (21,349 ) (46,128 ) (7,406 ) (5,999 ) BALANCE SHEET DATA: Total assets $ 264,032 $ 270,670 $ 251,761 $ 241,508 $ 220,276 Revolving line of credit 26,500 Shareholders equity 106,972 134,358 114,262 137,211 125,875 (1) On June 27, 2008, we settled outstanding litigation related to two Stock Purchase Warrants (the Warrants) owned by Bank of America, N. A. (BANA). The Warrants entitled BANA to acquire 1.6 million shares of Tyler common stock at an exercise price of $2.50 per share. Following court-ordered mediation, in July 2008, BANA paid us $2.0 million and we issued to BANA 801,883 restricted shares of Tyler common stock. Accordingly, we recorded a non-cash legal settlement related to warrants charge of $9.0 million, which was not tax deductible. 21 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that are not historical in nature and typically address future or anticipated events, trends, expectations or beliefs with respect to our financial condition, results of operations or business. Forward-looking statements often contain words such as believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates, plans, intends, continues, may, will, should, projects, might, could or other similar words or phrases. Similarly, statements that describe our business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. We believe there is a reasonable basis for our forward-looking statements, but they are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results could differ materially from the expectations and beliefs reflected in the forward-looking statements. We presently consider the following to be among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and beliefs: (1) changes in the budgets or regulatory environments of our customers, primarily local and state governments, that could negatively impact information technology spending; (2) our ability to achieve our financial forecasts due to various factors, including project delays by our customers, reductions in transaction size, fewer transactions, delays in delivery of new products or releases or a decline in our renewal rates for service agreements; (3) economic, political and market conditions, including the global economic and financial crisis, and the general tightening of access to debt or equity capital; (4) technological and market risks associated with the development of new products or services or of new versions of existing or acquired products or services; (5) our ability to successfully complete acquisitions and achieve growth or operational synergies through the integration of acquired businesses, while avoiding unanticipated costs and disruptions to existing operations; (6) competition in the industry in which we conduct business and the impact of competition on pricing, customer retention and pressure for new products or services; (7) the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel and dealing with the loss or retirement of key members of management or other key personnel; and (8) costs of compliance and any failure to comply with government and stock exchange regulations. A detailed discussion of these factors and other risks that affect our business are described in Item 1A, Risk Factors. We expressly disclaim any obligation to publicly update or revise our forward-looking statements. OVERVIEW General We provide integrated information management solutions and services for the public sector, with a focus on local governments. We develop and market a broad line of software products and services to address the information technology (IT) needs of cities, counties, schools and other local government entities. In addition, we provide professional IT services to our customers, including software and hardware installation, data conversion, training and for certain customers, product modifications, along with continuing maintenance and support for customers using our systems. We also provide subscription-based services such as hosted solutions as well as property appraisal outsourcing services for taxing jurisdictions. Our products generally automate three major functional areas (1) financial management and education, (2) courts and justice and (3) property appraisal and tax and we report our results in two segments. The Enterprise Software Solutions (ESS) segment provides municipal and county governments and schools with software systems to meet their information technology and automation needs for mission-critical back-office functions such as financial management and courts and justice processes. The Appraisal and Tax Software Solutions and Services (ATSS) segment provides systems and software that automate the appraisal and assessment of real and personal property as well as property appraisal outsourcing services for local governments and taxing authorities. Property appraisal outsourcing services include: the physical inspection of commercial and residential properties; data collection and processing; computer analysis for property valuation; preparation of tax rolls; community education; and arbitration between taxpayers and the assessing jurisdiction. We monitor and analyze several key performance indicators in order to manage our business and evaluate our financial and operating performance. These indicators include the following: Revenues We derive our revenues from five primary sources: sale of software licenses; subscription-based services; software services; maintenance and support; and appraisal services. Because the majority of the software we sell is off-the-shelf, increased sales of software products generally result in incrementally higher gross margins. Thus, the most significant driver to our business is the number and size of software license sales. In addition, new software license sales generally 22 Table of Contents generate implementation services revenues as well as future maintenance and support revenues, which are a recurring revenue source. We also monitor our customer base and churn since our maintenance and support revenue should increase due to our historically low customer turnover. During 2010, approximately 47% of our revenue was attributable to ongoing support and maintenance agreements and our customer turnover was approximately 3%. Cost of Revenues and Gross Margins Our primary cost component is personnel expenses in connection with providing software implementation, subscription-based services, maintenance and support, and appraisal services to our customers. We can improve gross margins by controlling headcount and related costs and by expanding our revenue base, especially from those products and services that produce incremental revenue with minimal incremental cost, such as software licenses, subscription-based services, and maintenance and support. Our appraisal projects are seasonal in nature, and we often employ appraisal personnel on a short-term basis to coincide with the life of a project. As of December 31, 2010, our total employee count increased to 2,054 from 2,018 at December 31, 2009. Most of these additions were to our appraisal staff which is cyclical and in part driven by statutory revaluation cycles in various states. Additions to our appraisal staff were offset somewhat by a smaller implementation and support staff as we manage costs and staff to ensure they are in line with demand in professional services. Selling, General and Administrative (SG&A) Expenses The primary components of SG&A expenses are administrative and sales personnel salaries and commissions, marketing expense, share-based compensation expense, rent and professional fees. Sales commissions typically fluctuate with revenues and share-based compensation expense generally increases when the market price of our stock increases. Other administrative expenses tend to grow at a slower rate than revenues. Liquidity and Cash Flows The primary driver of our cash flows is net income. Uses of cash include acquisitions, capital investments in property and equipment and discretionary purchases of treasury stock. In 2010, we purchased 3.6 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $65.8 million. During 2010 we used cash of $9.5 million to acquire one company and invested $4.9 million in property and equipment. Our investment in property and equipment included $1.3 million related to construction of an office building. We also borrowed $26.5 million on our revolving line of credit mainly to assist in funding discretionary purchases of treasury stock. Our working capital needs are fairly stable throughout the year with the significant components of cash outflows being payment of personnel expenses offset by cash inflows representing collection of accounts receivable and cash receipts from customers in advance of revenue being earned. Balance Sheet Cash, accounts receivable and days sales outstanding and deferred revenue balances are important indicators of our business. Acquisitions In January 2010 we acquired all the assets of Wiznet, Inc. (Wiznet) for a cash purchase price of $9.5 million. Wiznet provides electronic document filing solutions for courts and law offices throughout the United States and is integrated with our primary courts and justice solution. In connection with this transaction we acquired total tangible assets of approximately $867,000. We recorded goodwill of approximately $2.6 million, all of which is expected to be deductible for tax purposes, and other intangible assets of approximately $6.1 million. The $6.1 million of intangible assets is attributable to customer relationships and acquired software that will be amortized over a weighted average period of approximately nine years. Our balance sheet as of December 31, 2010 reflects the allocation of the purchase price to the assets acquired based on their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition. The operating results of this acquisition are included in our results of operations since the date of acquisition. Outlook Consistent with 2010, we expect to continue to invest aggressively in product development in 2011. We believe that our competitive position is strong and that we are well-positioned to take advantage of an eventual return to a stronger economic environment. However, until we see signs of sustained improvement, we expect that the new business environment in 2011 will continue to be both challenging and unpredictable, and that growth will again come primarily from recurring revenues. 23 Table of Contents CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, the reported amounts of revenues, cost of revenues and expenses during the reporting period, and related disclosure of contingencies. The Notes to the Financial Statements included as part of this Annual Report describe our significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the financial statements. Significant items subject to such estimates and assumptions include the application of the percentage-of-completion and proportionate performance methods of revenue recognition, the carrying amount and estimated useful lives of intangible assets, determination of share-based compensation expense and valuation allowance for receivables. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies require significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements. Revenue Recognition . We recognize revenues in accordance with the provisions of Accounting Standards Codification ( ASC) 605, Revenue Recognition and ASC 985-605, Software Revenue Recognition. Our revenues are derived from sales of software licenses, subscription-based services, appraisal services, maintenance and support, and services that typically range from installation, training and basic consulting to software modification and customization to meet specific customer needs. For multiple element software arrangements, which do not entail the performance of services that are considered essential to the functionality of the software, we generally record revenue when the delivered products or performed services result in a legally enforceable and non-refundable claim. We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts and sales adjustments, which are provided at the time the revenue is recognized. Because most of our customers are governmental entities, we rarely incur a loss resulting from the inability of a customer to make required payments. In a limited number of cases, we encounter a customer who is dissatisfied with some aspect of the software product or our service, and we may offer a concession to such customer. In those limited situations where we grant a concession, we rarely reduce the contract arrangement fee, but alternatively may perform additional services, such as additional training or creating additional custom reports. These amounts have historically been nominal. In connection with our customer contracts and the adequacy of related allowances and measures of progress towards contract completion, our project managers are charged with the responsibility to continually review the status of each customer on a specific contract basis. Also, we review, on at least a quarterly basis, significant past due accounts receivable and the adequacy of related reserves. Events or changes in circumstances that indicate that the carrying amount for the allowances for doubtful accounts and sales adjustments may require revision, include, but are not limited to, deterioration of a customers financial condition, failure to manage our customers expectations regarding the scope of the services to be delivered, and defects or errors in new versions or enhancements of our software products. We use contract accounting, primarily the percentage-of-completion method, as discussed in ASC 605-35, Construction Type and Certain Production Type Contracts, for those software arrangements that involve significant production, modification or customization of the software, or where our software services are otherwise considered essential to the functionality of the software. We measure progress-to-completion primarily using labor hours incurred, or value added. In addition, we recognize revenue using the proportionate performance method of revenue recognition for our property appraisal projects, some of which can range up to five years. These methods rely on estimates of total expected contract revenue, billings and collections and expected contract costs, as well as measures of progress toward completion. We believe reasonably dependable estimates of revenue and costs and progress applicable to various stages of a contract can be made. At times, we perform additional and/or non-contractual services for little to no incremental fee to satisfy customer expectations. If changes occur in delivery, productivity or other factors used in developing our estimates of expected costs or revenues, we revise our cost and revenue estimates, and any revisions are charged to income in the period in which the facts that give rise to that revision first become known. In connection with these and certain other contracts, we may perform the work prior to when the services are billable and/or payable pursuant to the contract. The termination clauses in most of our contracts provide for the payment for the fair value of products delivered and services performed in the event of an early termination. For ASP and other hosting arrangements, we evaluate whether the customer has the contractual right to take possession of our software at any time during the hosting period without significant penalty and whether the customer can feasibly maintain the software on the customers hardware or enter into another arrangement with a third party to host the software. If we determine that the customer has the contractual right to take possession of our software at any time during the hosting period without significant penalty 24 Table of Contents and can feasibly maintain the software on the customers hardware or enter into another arrangement with a third party to host the software, we recognize the license, professional services and hosting services revenues pursuant to ASC 985-605, Software Revenue Recognition. For ASP and other hosting arrangements that do not meet the criteria for recognition under ASC 985-605, we account for the elements under ASC 605-25, Multiple Element Arrangements using all applicable facts and circumstances, including whether (i) the element has stand-alone value, (ii) there is a general right of return and (iii) the revenue is contingent on delivery of other elements. We allocate revenue to each element of the arrangement that qualifies for treatment as a separate element based on VSOE, and if VSOE is not available, third party evidence, and if third party evidence is unavailable, estimated selling price. For professional services associated with ASP and hosting arrangements that we determine do not have stand-alone value to the customer or are contingent on delivery of other elements, we recognize the services revenue ratably over the remaining contractual period once hosting has gone live and we may begin billing for the hosting services. We record amounts that have been invoiced in accounts receivable and in deferred revenue or revenues, depending on whether the revenue recognition criteria have been met. In connection with certain of our contracts, we have recorded retentions receivable or unbilled receivables consisting of costs and estimated profit in excess of billings as of the balance sheet date. Many of the contracts which give rise to unbilled receivables at a given balance sheet date are subject to billings in the subsequent accounting period. Management reviews unbilled receivables and related contract provisions to ensure we are justified in recognizing revenue prior to billing the customer and that we have objective evidence which allows us to recognize such revenue. In addition, we have a sizable amount of deferred revenue which represents billings in excess of revenue earned. The majority of this liability consists of maintenance billings for which payments are made in advance and the revenue is ratably earned over the maintenance period, generally one year. We also have deferred revenue for those contracts in which we receive a deposit and the conditions in which to record revenue for the service or product has not been met. On a periodic basis, we review by customer the detail components of our deferred revenue to ensure our accounting remains appropriate. Intangible Assets and Goodwill . Our business acquisitions typically result in the creation of goodwill and other intangible asset balances, and these balances affect the amount and timing of future period amortization expense, as well as expense we could possibly incur as a result of an impairment charge. The cost of acquired companies is allocated to identifiable tangible and intangible assets based on estimated fair value, with the excess allocated to goodwill. Accordingly, we have a significant balance of acquisition date intangible assets, including software, customer related intangibles, trade name and goodwill. In addition, we capitalize software development costs incurred subsequent to the establishment of technological feasibility. These intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. All intangible assets with definite and indefinite lives are reviewed for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of goodwill is generally measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to its fair value, generally determined by estimated future net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually as of April, or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. An impairment loss is recognized to the extent that the carrying amount exceeds the assets fair value. The fair values calculated in our impairment tests are determined using discounted cash flow models involving several assumptions. These assumptions include, but are not limited to, anticipated operating income growth rates, our long-term anticipated operating income growth rate and the discount rate. Our cash flow forecasts are based on assumptions that are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses. The assumptions that are used are based upon what we believe a hypothetical marketplace participant would use in estimating fair value. We have identified two reporting units for impairment testing. Our reporting units are the same as our reportable segments and consistent with the reporting units tested for impairment in prior years. Assets, liabilities and goodwill have been assigned to reporting units based on assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the date of acquisition. We evaluate the reasonableness of the fair value calculations of our reporting units by comparing the total of the fair value of all of our reporting units to our total market capitalization. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Recoverability of other intangible assets is generally measured by comparison of the carrying amount to estimated undiscounted future cash flows. The assessment of recoverability or of the estimated useful life for amortization purposes will be affected if the timing or the amount of estimated future operating cash flows is not achieved. Such indicators may include, among others: a significant decline in expected future cash flows; a sustained, significant decline in stock price and market capitalization; a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate; unanticipated competition; and reductions in growth rates. In addition, products, capabilities, or technologies developed by others may render our software products obsolete or non-competitive. Any adverse change in these factors could have a significant impact on the recoverability of goodwill or other intangible assets. Our annual goodwill impairment analysis, which we performed during the second quarter of 2010, did not result in an impairment charge. During 2010 we did not identify any triggering events which would require an update to our annual impairment review. A 25 Table of Contents hypothetical 10% decrease in the fair value of either of our reporting units as of December 31, 2010 would have had no impact on the carrying value of our goodwill. Share-Based Compensation. We have a stock option plan that provides for the grant of stock options to key employees, directors and non-employee consultants. We estimate the fair value of share-based awards on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option valuation model. Share-based compensation expense includes the estimated effects of forfeitures, which will be adjusted over the requisite service period to the extent actual forfeitures differ, or are expected to differ from such estimates. Changes in estimated forfeitures are recognized in the period of change and will also impact the amount of expense to be recognized in future periods. Forfeiture rate assumptions are derived from historical data. We estimate stock price volatility at the date of grant based on the historical volatility of our common stock. Estimated option life is determined using the simplified method in accordance with ASC 718-10, Stock Compensation. Determining the appropriate fair-value model and calculating the fair value of share-based awards at the grant date requires considerable judgment, including estimating stock price volatility, expected option life and forfeiture rates. ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND OTHER The following discussion compares the historical results of operations on a basis consistent with GAAP for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. Percentage of Total Revenues Years ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Revenues: Software licenses 12.1 % 14.5 % 15.7 % Subscriptions 8.1 5.9 5.4 Software services 23.7 27.7 28.3 Maintenance 47.0 42.9 40.5 Appraisal services 7.1 6.5 7.2 Hardware and other 2.0 2.5 2.9 Total revenues 100.0 100.0 100.0 Operating Expenses: Cost of software licenses and acquired software 1.8 2.4 4.2 Cost of software services, maintenance and subscriptions 47.8 47.3 47.6 Cost of appraisal services 4.5 4.0 4.6 Cost of hardware and other 1.5 2.0 2.2 Selling, general and administrative expenses 24.1 24.2 23.7 Research and development expense 4.8 3.8 2.8 Amortization of customer base and trade name intangibles 1.1 0.9 0.9 Non-cash legal settlement related to warrants 3.4 Operating income 14.4 15.4 10.6 Other (expenses) income, net (0.6 ) 0.0 0.4 Income before income taxes 13.8 15.4 11.0 Income tax provision 5.1 6.1 5.4 Net income 8.7 % 9.3 % 5.6 % 26 Table of Contents 2010 Compared to 2009 Revenues Software licenses. The following table sets forth a comparison of our software license revenues for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2010 2009 $ % Enterprise Software Solutions $ 32,757 $ 39,484 $ (6,727 ) (17 )% Appraisal and Tax Software Solutions and Services 2,156 2,647 (491 ) (19 ) Total software license revenues $ 34,913 $ 42,131 $ (7,218 ) (17 )% In 2010 we signed 58 large new contracts with average software license fees of approximately $440,000, compared to 74 large new contracts signed in 2009 with average software license fees of approximately $307,000. We consider contracts with a license fee component of $100,000 or more to be large. Although a contract is signed in a particular year, the year in which the revenue is recognized may be different because we recognize revenue according to our revenue recognition policy as described in Note 1 in the Notes to Financial Statements. In 2010, ESS software license revenues recognized declined substantially compared to the prior year period. The decrease in software license revenues is mainly attributable to longer sales cycles to negotiate and close contracts that have reached the request for proposal phase and postponement of customer purchasing decisions mainly due to budgetary constraints related to economic conditions. The software installation period for a substantial number of our ESS solutions is relatively short and delays in the timing of signing new contracts will impact our results in the short term. In addition, a portion of the decline was due to a number of customers choosing our subscription-based options, rather than purchasing the software under a traditional perpetual software license arrangement. Subscription-based arrangements result in lower software license revenues in the initial year as compared to traditional perpetual software license arrangements but generate higher overall subscription-based services revenue over the term of the contract. We expect ESS software license revenues in 2011 to be flat compared to 2010. ATSS software license revenue is substantially dependent on revaluation cycles which are cyclical and in part driven by statutory revaluation cycles in various states. In addition, local government taxing authorities generally do not purchase a new software license for each revaluation cycle. Subscriptions. The following table sets forth a comparison of our subscription revenues for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2010 2009 $ % Enterprise Software Solutions $ 22,975 $ 16,870 $ 6,105 36 % Appraisal and Tax Software Solutions and Services 323 311 12 4 Total subscription revenues $ 23,298 $ 17,181 $ 6,117 36 % Subscription-based services revenue primarily consists of revenues derived from application service provider (ASP) arrangements and other hosted service offerings, software subscriptions and disaster recovery services. In January 2010, we acquired Wiznet, which provides primarily subscription-based electronic document filing solutions for courts and law offices and is included in our ESS segment. Excluding the impact of this acquisition, ESS and total subscription revenues grew by 18% in 2010. ASP and other software subscription agreements are typically for periods of three to six years and automatically renew unless either party cancels the agreement. Disaster recovery and miscellaneous other hosted service agreements are typically 27 Table of Contents renewable annually. Existing customers who converted to our ASP model as well as new customers for ASP and other hosted service offerings provided the majority of the subscription revenue increase with the remaining increase due to slightly higher rates for disaster recovery services. In 2010, 50 existing customers elected to transfer to our ASP model and we added 19 new customers. Software services . The following table sets forth a comparison of our software services revenues for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2010 2009 $ % Enterprise Software Solutions $ 58,371 $ 70,041 $ (11,670 ) (17 )% Appraisal and Tax Software Solutions and Services 9,969 10,364 (395 ) (4 ) Total software services revenues $ 68,340 $ 80,405 $ (12,065 ) (15 )% Software services revenues primarily consists of professional services billed in connection with the installation of our software, conversion of customer data, training customer personnel and consulting. New customers who purchase our proprietary software licenses generally also contract with us to provide for the related software services as well. Existing customers also periodically purchase additional training, consulting and minor programming services. The decline in software services revenues in 2010 is principally due to lower new software license contract activity in recent quarters due to weak economic conditions. In addition, the increase in the mix of customers choosing our subscription-based solutions was a factor in lower software services revenues. Maintenance . The following table sets forth a comparison of our maintenance revenues for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2010 2009 $ % Enterprise Software Solutions $ 120,764 $ 110,404 $ 10,360 9 % Appraisal and Tax Software Solutions and Services 14,891 14,108 783 6 Total maintenance revenues $ 135,655 $ 124,512 $ 11,143 9 % We provide maintenance and support services for our software products and third party software. Maintenance revenues increased 9% in 2010 compared to 2009. This increase was due to growth in our installed customer base and slightly higher maintenance rates on most of our product lines. Our annual maintenance and support growth rate has declined compared to previous years growth rate due to a number of customers converting to ASP arrangements as well as new customers choosing our subscription-based options, rather than purchasing the software under a traditional perpetual software license arrangement. Appraisal services . The following table sets forth a comparison of our appraisal service revenues for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2010 2009 $ % Enterprise Software Solutions $ $ $ % Appraisal and Tax Software Solutions and Services 20,554 18,740 1,814 10 Total appraisal services revenues $ 20,554 $ 18,740 $ 1,814 10 % 28 Table of Contents Appraisal services revenue increased 10% in 2010 compared to 2009. The appraisal services business is somewhat cyclical and driven in part by statutory revaluation cycles in various states. We substantially completed several large appraisal projects mid-2009. We began several new revaluation contracts in late 2009 which contributed to the revenue growth in 2010. We expect appraisal revenues for 2011 will be moderately higher than 2010. Cost of Revenues and Gross Margins The following table sets forth a comparison of the key components of our cost of revenues for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2010 2009 $ % Software licenses $ 3,456 $ 5,440 $ (1,984 ) (36 )% Acquired software 1,592 1,411 181 13 Software services, maintenance and subscriptions 138,085 137,199 886 1 Appraisal services 12,910 11,518 1,392 12 Hardware and other 4,268 5,955 (1,687 ) (28 ) Total cost of revenues $ 160,311 $ 161,523 $ (1,212 ) (1 )% The following table sets forth a comparison of gross margin percentage by revenue type for the years ended December 31: Change Gross margin percentage 2010 2009 % Software license and acquired software 85.5 % 83.7 % 1.8 % Software services, maintenance and subscriptions 39.2 38.2 1.0 Appraisal services 37.2 38.5 (1.3 ) Hardware and other 27.3 18.6 8.7 Overall gross margin 44.5 % 44.4 % 0.1 % Software license and acquired software . Cost of software license and acquired software is comprised of third party software costs, amortization of acquired software and amortization expense for capitalized development costs on certain software products. Cost of third party software comprised approximately 60% of our cost of software license revenues in 2010 compared to approximately 69% of our cost of software license in 2009. Third party software sales declined due to lower proprietary software sales. New software license sales are a significant driver of third party license sales. Costs of acquired software comprises approximately 32% of our cost of software license revenues in 2010 compared to approximately 21% of our cost of software license in 2009. Cost of acquired software includes amortization expense for software acquired through acquisitions. We completed several acquisitions in the period 2007 through 2010 and these costs are being amortized over a weighted average period of approximately five years. The balance is made up of amortization of capitalized development costs on other software products. Amortization expense for capitalized development cost is determined on a product-by-product basis at an annual rate not less than straight-line basis over the products estimated life, which is generally five years. Development costs consist mainly of personnel costs, such as salary and benefits paid to our developers, and rent for related office space. We did not capitalize any internal software development costs in 2010 or 2009. In 2010, our software license gross margin percentage increased compared to the prior year period because our product mix included less third party software. Third party software has a lower gross margin than proprietary software solutions. Software services, maintenance and subscription-based services . Cost of software services, maintenance and subscriptions primarily consists of personnel costs related to installation of our software, conversion of customer data, training customer personnel and support activities and various other services such as ASP and disaster recovery. In 2010, the software services, maintenance and subscriptions gross margin increased compared to the prior year partly because maintenance and various other services such as ASP and disaster recovery costs typically grow at a slower rate than related revenues due to leverage in the utilization of our support and maintenance staff and economies of scale, as well as annual rate increases on certain services. We are also managing costs and staff levels to ensure they are in line with demand for professional services. Our implementation and support staff has declined by 61 employees since December 31, 2009. 29 Table of Contents Appraisal services . Our appraisal services gross margin declined compared to 2009. Our appraisal services gross margin in 2009 included the positive impact of cost savings and operational efficiencies experienced on an unusually complex reappraisal project that ended in mid-2009. In addition, a high proportion of the costs of appraisal services revenue are variable, as we often hire temporary employees to assist in appraisal projects whose term of employment generally ends with the projects completion. Our blended gross margin for 2010 increased compared to 2009 due to lower third party software expense which offset the impact of a revenue mix that included less software license revenues. The gross margin also benefited from leverage in the utilization of our support and maintenance staff and economies of scale and slightly higher rates on certain services. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses consist primarily of salaries, employee benefits, travel, share-based compensation expense, commissions and related overhead costs for administrative and sales and marketing employees as well as, professional fees, trade show activities, advertising costs and other marketing related costs. The following table sets forth a comparison of our SG&A expenses for the following years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2010 2009 $ % Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 69,480 $ 70,115 $ (635 ) (1 )% SG&A expenses declined in 2010 compared to 2009 due to lower commission costs and marketing expenses which were offset somewhat by higher share-based compensation expense. Marketing expenses in 2009 include costs associated with the launch of a new corporate branding initiative. Research and Development Expense Research and development expense consists primarily of salaries, employee benefits and related overhead costs associated with product development and enhancements and upgrades provided to existing customers under maintenance plans. The following table sets forth a comparison of our research and development expense for the following years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2010 2009 $ % Research and development expense $ 13,971 $ 11,159 $ 2,812 25 % Research and development expense consists of costs associated with development of new products and new software platforms from which we do not currently generate revenue. These include the Microsoft Dynamics AX project, as well as other new product development efforts. In 2010 approximately two-thirds of the increase in gross research and development expense relates to investments in new product development other than Microsoft Dynamics AX. We have increased our research and development efforts as we continue to make investments in existing and new products that we believe will enhance our competitive position and drive long-term revenue growth. We have increased our development staff by 27 employees since December 31, 2009. In January 2007, we entered into a Software Development and License Agreement, which provides for a strategic alliance with Microsoft Corporation (Microsoft) to jointly develop core public sector functionality for Microsoft Dynamics AX to address the accounting needs of public sector organizations worldwide. In September 2007, Tyler and Microsoft signed an amendment to the Software Development and License Agreement, which grants Microsoft intellectual property rights in and to certain portions of the software code provided and developed by Tyler into Microsoft Dynamics AX products to be marketed and sold outside of the public sector in exchange for reimbursement payments to partially offset the research and development costs. In 2010 and 2009, we offset our research and development expense by $5.1 million and $3.5 million, respectively, which were the amounts earned under the terms of our agreement with Microsoft. In September 2008, Tyler and Microsoft signed a statement of work under the Amended Software Development and License Agreement for which we expected to recognize offsets to our research and development expense by approximately $850,000 each quarter through the end of 2010. In addition, in October 2009, the scope of the project was further expanded which will result in additional offsets to research and development expense, varying in amount from quarter to quarter through mid-2012 for a total of approximately $6.2 million. As of December 31, 2010, we have received $1.1 30 Table of Contents million and expect to receive the remaining $5.1 million through mid-2012. The actual amount and timing of future research and development costs and related reimbursements and whether they are capitalized or expensed may vary. We currently expect that for 2011, we will recognize less reimbursement from Microsoft than we did in 2010 due to changes in the timing of deployment of resources. Amortization of Customer and Trade Name Intangibles Acquisition intangibles are comprised of the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net tangible assets acquired that is allocated to acquired software and customer and trade name intangibles. The remaining excess purchase price is allocated to goodwill that is not subject to amortization. Amortization expense related to acquired software is included with cost of revenues, while amortization expense of customer and trade name intangibles is recorded as other operating expense. The estimated useful lives of both customer and trade name intangibles are five to 25 years. The following table sets forth a comparison of amortization of customer and trade name intangibles for the following years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2010 2009 $ % Amortization of customer and trade name intangibles $ 3,225 $ 2,705 $ 520 19 % In January 2010 we completed one acquisition, which increased amortizable customer and trade name intangibles by approximately $5.5 million. This amount will be amortized over 10 years. Estimated annual amortization expense relating to customer and trade name acquisition intangibles, excluding acquired software for which the amortization expense is recorded as cost of revenues, for the next five years is as follows (in thousands): 2011 $ 3,186 2012 3,134 2013 2,975 2014 2,974 2015 2,974 Other The following table sets forth a comparison of other expense, net for the following years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2010 2009 $ % Other (expense) income, net $ (1,742 ) $ (146 ) $ (1,596 ) NA In 2010, over half of other expense is comprised of interest expense, non-usage and other fees associated with a credit agreement entered into in August 2010. Other expense in 2009 is mainly comprised of interest expense, non-usage fees and other bank fees. Interest expense was higher in 2010 than 2009 due to higher debt levels associated with our stock repurchases. In addition the effective interest rate in 2010 was 3.4% compared to 1.8% in 2009. 31 Table of Contents Income Tax Provision The following table sets forth a comparison of our income tax provision for the following years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2010 2009 $ % Income tax provision $ 14,845 $ 17,628 $ (2,783 ) (16 )% Effective income tax rate 37.2 % 39.5 % Our effective income tax rate declined compared to 2009 mainly due to a $579,000 research and development tax credit in 2010. In addition to the impact of the research and development tax credit in 2010, the effective income tax rate for both years were different from the statutory United States federal income tax rate of 35% due to state income taxes, non-deductible share-based compensation expense, the qualified manufacturing activities deduction, and non-deductible meals and entertainment costs. Approximately 35% of our stock option expense is derived from incentive stock options (ISOs). As such, a tax benefit is not recorded at the time the compensation cost related to the options is recorded for book purposes due to the fact that an ISO does not ordinarily result in a tax benefit unless there is a disqualifying disposition. Non-qualified stock options result in the creation of a deferred tax asset, which is a temporary difference, until the time that the option is exercised. Due to the treatment of ISOs for tax purposes, our effective tax rate from year to year is subject to variability. 2009 Compared to 2008 Revenues Software licenses . The following table sets forth a comparison of our software license revenues for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2009 2008 $ % Enterprise Software Solutions $ 39,484 $ 39,215 $ 269 1 % Appraisal and Tax Software Solutions and Services 2,647 2,275 372 16 Total software license revenues $ 42,131 $ 41,490 $ 641 2 % We acquired several student information and financial management solutions for K-12 schools from January through August 2008. Excluding the impact of these acquisitions, ESS software license revenue would have declined approximately $900,000. In mid-2009 our sales cycle to negotiate and close contracts which have reached the request for proposal phase lengthened slightly mainly due to budgetary constraints related to declining economic conditions. As a result the purchasing processes for some of our customers were extended to include more approval and documentation requirements. In addition, a few contracts included requirements to construct interfaces to existing systems or other essential functionality which results in recognizing revenue over a longer period of time. ATSS software license revenue is substantially dependent on revaluation cycles which are cyclical and in part driven by statutory revaluation cycles in various states. In addition, local government taxing authorities generally do not purchase a new software license for each revaluation cycle. 32 Table of Contents Subscriptions. The following table sets forth a comparison of our subscription revenues for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2009 2008 $ % Enterprise Software Solutions $ 16,870 $ 14,352 $ 2,518 18 % Appraisal and Tax Software Solutions and Services 311 22 289 NA Total subscription revenues $ 17,181 $ 14,374 $ 2,807 20 % Excluding the impact of acquisitions, ESS subscription revenues grew 16% in 2009 compared to 2008. This increase was due to new customers for ASP and other hosted service offerings as well as existing customers converting to ASP arrangements and slightly higher rates for disaster recovery services. Software services . The following table sets forth a comparison of our software service revenues for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2009 2008 $ % Enterprise Software Solutions $ 70,041 $ 63,508 $ 6,533 10 % Appraisal and Tax Software Solutions and Services 10,364 11,489 (1,125 ) (10 ) Total software services revenues $ 80,405 $ 74,997 $ 5,408 7 % Excluding the impact of acquisitions, ESS software services revenue increased 9% compared to 2008. This increase was mainly due to additions to our implementation and support staff as well as leverage in the utilization of our implementation and support staff and slightly higher rates on some arrangements. Maintenance . The following table sets forth a comparison of our maintenance revenues for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2009 2008 $ % Enterprise Software Solutions $ 110,404 $ 94,546 $ 15,858 17 % Appraisal and Tax Software Solutions and Services 14,108 12,912 1,196 9 Total maintenance revenues $ 124,512 $ 107,458 $ 17,054 16 % Excluding the impact of acquisitions, total maintenance revenues increased 14% in 2009 compared to 2008. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, ESS maintenance and support services grew 15% and ASTT maintenance and support services grew 8% in 2009 compared to 2008. This increase was due to growth in our installed customer base and slightly higher maintenance rates on most of our product lines. 33 Table of Contents Appraisal services . The following table sets forth a comparison of our appraisal service revenues for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2009 2008 $ % Enterprise Software Solutions $ $ $ % Appraisal and Tax Software Solutions and Services 18,740 19,098 (358 ) (2 ) Total appraisal services revenues $ 18,740 $ 19,098 $ (358 ) (2 )% Appraisal services revenue declined 2% in 2009 compared to 2008. The appraisal services business is somewhat cyclical and driven in part by statutory revaluation cycles in various states. We substantially completed several large appraisal projects mid- 2009. Cost of Revenues and Gross Margin The following table sets forth a comparison of the key components of our cost of revenues for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2009 2008 $ % Software licenses $ 5,440 $ 9,224 $ (3,784 ) (41 )% Acquired software 1,411 1,799 (388 ) (22 ) Software services, maintenance and subscriptions 137,199 126,247 10,952 9 Appraisal services 11,518 12,251 (733 ) (6 ) Hardware and other 5,955 5,793 162 3 Total cost of revenues $ 161,523 $ 155,314 $ 6,209 4 % The following table sets forth a comparison of gross margin percentage by revenue type for the years ended December 31: Change Gross margin percentage 2009 2008 % Software license and acquired software 83.7 % 73.4 % 10.3 % Software services, maintenance and subscriptions 38.2 35.9 2.3 Appraisal services 38.5 35.9 2.6 Hardware and other 18.6 24.6 (6.0 ) Overall gross margin 44.4 % 41.4 % 3.0 % Software license and acquired software . Amortization expense for capitalized development costs on certain software products comprised approximately 15% of our cost of software license revenues in 2009 compared to approximately 50% of our cost of software license in 2008. The remaining balance is made up of third party software costs. Cost of acquired software includes amortization expense for software acquired through acquisitions. In late 2008 software associated with one significant acquisition completed in December 2003 became fully amortized. In 2009, our software license gross margin percentage rose significantly compared to the prior year period because several products became fully amortized in late 2008, as did software acquired related to a significant acquisition in December 2003. Software services, maintenance and subscription-based services . In 2009, the software services, maintenance and subscriptions gross margin increased compared to the prior year partly because maintenance and various other services such as ASP and disaster recovery costs typically grow at a slower rate than related revenues due to leverage in the utilization of our support and maintenance staff and 34 Table of Contents economies of scale. The software services, maintenance and subscription-based services gross margin also benefited from slightly higher rates for certain services. Appraisal services . Our appraisal gross margin increased compared to 2008 as the result of cost savings and operational efficiencies experienced on an unusually complex project. A high proportion of the costs of appraisal services revenue are variable, as we often hire temporary employees to assist in appraisal projects whose term of employment generally ends with the projects completion. Our blended gross margin for 2009 was higher than 2008 due to lower amortization expense of software development costs described above. The gross margin also benefited from leverage in the utilization of our support and maintenance staff and economies of scale and slightly higher rates on certain services. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses The following table sets forth a comparison of our SG&A expenses for the following years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2009 2008 $ % Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 70,115 $ 62,923 $ 7,192 11 % The increase in SG&A expenses included higher share-based compensation expense, commission costs and marketing expenses. Marketing expenses in 2009 include costs associated with the launch of a new corporate branding initiative. Research and Development Expense The following table sets forth a comparison of our research and development expense for the following years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2009 2008 $ % Research and development expense $ 11,159 $ 7,286 $ 3,873 53 % Research and development expense consist of costs associated with the Microsoft Dynamics AX project, in addition to costs associated with other new product development efforts. In 2009 and 2008, we offset our research and development expense by $3.5 million and $1.8 million, respectively, which were the amounts earned under the terms of our agreement with Microsoft. Amortization of Customer and Trade Name Intangibles The following table sets forth a comparison of amortization of customer and trade name intangibles for the following years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2009 2008 $ % Amortization of customer and trade name intangibles $ 2,705 $ 2,438 $ 267 11 % In 2009 we completed several acquisitions and purchased certain software assets to complement our tax and appraisal solutions and our student information management solutions. 35 Table of Contents Non-Cash Legal Settlement Related to Warrants On June 27, 2008, we settled outstanding litigation related to the Warrants owned by Bank of America, N. A. ( BANA). As disclosed in prior SEC filings, the Warrants entitled BANA to acquire 1.6 million shares of Tyler common stock at an exercise price of $2.50 per share. Following court-ordered mediation, in July 2008, BANA paid us $2.0 million and we issued to BANA 801,883 restricted shares of Tyler common stock. Accordingly, we recorded a non-cash legal settlement related to warrants charge of $9.0 million, which was not tax deductible. Other Other (expense) income in 2009 and 2008 includes non-usage and other fees associated with a credit agreement entered into in October 2008. Other income in 2008 also included $1.1 million of interest income which declined due to significantly lower invested cash balances in 2009. Our invested cash balances declined due to purchases of treasury stock and investments in office facilities in late 2008 and 2009. Income Tax Provision The following table sets forth a comparison of our income tax provision for the following years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2009 2008 $ % Income Tax Provision $ 17,628 $ 14,414 $ 3,214 22 % Effective income tax rate 39.5 % 49.2 % Our 2009 effective income tax rate declined compared to 2008 mainly due to a non-cash legal settlement related to warrants charge of $9.0 million in 2008, which was not deductible. In addition to the impact of the non-deductible non-cash legal settlement charge in 2008, the effective income tax rate for both years were different from the statutory United States federal income tax rate of 35% due to state income taxes, non-deductible share-based compensation expense, the qualified manufacturing activities deduction, and non-deductible meals and entertainment costs. FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY As of December 31, 2010, we had cash and cash equivalents of $2.1 million and current and non-current investments of $2.2 million, compared to cash and cash equivalents (including restricted cash equivalents) of $15.7 million and current and non-current investments of $2.0 million at December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2010, we had $26.5 million outstanding borrowings and outstanding letters of credit totaling $8.3 million to secure surety bonds required by some of our customer contracts. These letters of credit expire through mid-2011. The following table sets forth a summary of cash flows for the years ended December 31: ($ in thousands) 2010 2009 2008 Cash flows provided by (used by): Operating activities $ 35,350 $ 42,941 $ 47,802 Investing activities (8,694 ) (13,658 ) (9,554 ) Financing activities (34,238 ) (21,349 ) (46,128 ) Net(decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents $ (7,582 ) $ 7,934 $ (7,880 ) Net cash provided by operating activities continues to be our primary source of funds to finance operating needs and capital expenditures. Other capital resources include cash on hand, public and private issuances of debt and equity securities, and bank borrowings. It is possible that our ability to access the capital and credit markets in the future may be limited by economic conditions or other factors. We currently believe that cash provided by operating activities, cash on hand and available credit are sufficient to fund our working capital requirements, capital expenditures, income tax obligations, and share repurchases for the foreseeable future. 36 Table of Contents In 2010, operating activities provided net cash of $35.4 million, primarily generated from net income of $25.1 million, non-cash depreciation and amortization charges of $10.8 million, non-cash share-based compensation expense of $6.1 million offset by an increase in working capital of $4.8 million. The increase in working capital was due to lower accounts payable and accrued liabilities pertaining to the timing of payments on vendor invoices and income tax liabilities. In 2010 we adopted a new company-wide vacation policy and as a result paid approximately $1.8 million to reduce accrued vacation balances in 2010 in connection with changing the policy. In addition, accrued bonus liabilities are smaller in 2010 compared to 2009 as a result of financial performance. Our accounts receivable and deferred revenue balances were also higher than 2009 due to an increase in annual software maintenance billings as a result of growth in our installed customer base. In general, changes in the balance of deferred revenue are cyclical and primarily driven by the timing of our maintenance renewal billings. Our renewal dates occur throughout the year but our heaviest renewal cycles occur in the second and fourth quarters. Non-current investments available-for-sale consist of two auction rate municipal securities (ARS) which are collateralized debt obligations supported by municipal agencies and do not include mortgage-backed securities. Short-term investments available-for-sale consists of a portion of one of these ARS which was partially redeemed at par during the period January 1, 2011 through February 24, 2011. These ARS are debt instruments with stated maturities ranging from 21 to 32 years, for which the interest rate is designed to be reset through Dutch auctions approximately every 30 days. However, due to events in the credit markets, auctions for these securities have not occurred since February 2008. Both of our ARS have had very small partial redemptions at par in the period from July 2009 through February 2011. As of December 31, 2010 we have continued to earn and collect interest on both of our ARS. Because quoted prices in active markets are no longer available we determined the estimated fair values of these securities utilizing a discounted trinomial model. The model considers the probability of three potential occurrences for each auction event through the maturity date of each ARS. The three potential outcomes for each auction are (i) successful auction/early redemption, (ii) failed auction and (iii) issuer default. Inputs in determining the probabilities of the potential outcomes include but are not limited to, the securities collateral, credit rating, insurance, issuers financial standing, contractual restrictions on disposition and the liquidity in the market. The fair value of each ARS is determined by summing the present value of the probability-weighted future principal and interest payments determined by the model. Since there can be no assurances that auctions for these securities will be successful in the near future, we have classified our ARS as non-current investments. In association with this estimate of fair value, we have recorded an after-tax temporary unrealized gain on our non-current ARS of $130,000, net of related tax effects of $70,000 in 2010, which is included in accumulated other comprehensive loss on our balance sheet. We consider the impairment in our ARS as temporary because we do not have the intent to sell, nor is it more-likely-than-not that we will be required to sell these securities before recovery of their cost basis. We believe that this temporary decline in fair value is due entirely to liquidity issues, because the underlying assets of these securities are supported by municipal agencies and do not include mortgage-backed securities, have redemption features which call for redemption at 100% of par value and have a current credit rating of A or AA. The ratings on the ARS take into account credit support through insurance policies guaranteeing each of the bonds payment of principal and accrued interest, if it becomes necessary. In addition, both ARS have had very small partial redemptions at par in the period July 2009 through February 2011. Based on our cash and cash equivalents balance of $2.1 million, expected operating cash flows and a $150.0 million revolving credit line, we do not believe a lack of liquidity associated with our ARS will adversely affect our ability to conduct business, and believe we have the ability to hold the securities throughout the currently estimated recovery period. We will continue to evaluate any changes in the fair value of our ARS and in the future, depending upon existing market conditions, we may be required to record an other-than-temporary decline in market value. At December 31, 2010, our days sales outstanding (DSOs) were 102 days compared to DSOs of 98 days at December 31, 2009. DSOs are calculated based on accounts receivable (excluding long-term receivables, but including unbilled receivables) divided by the quotient of annualized quarterly revenues divided by 360 days. Investing activities used cash of $8.7 million in 2010 compared to $13.7 million in 2009. In January 2010, we completed the acquisition of the assets of Wiznet, Inc. for $9.5 million in cash. Also, in connection with plans to consolidate workforces and support planned long-term growth, we paid $1.3 million in 2010 compared to $9.4 million in 2009, for construction of an office building in Lubbock, Texas. The impact of these investing activities was offset somewhat by the release of $6.0 million of restricted cash. In August 2010, we elected to replace our cash-collateralized letters of credit with ones issued under our revolving line of credit. Capital expenditures and acquisitions were funded from cash generated from operations. In 2009, we liquidated $2.5 million of investments in ARS for cash at par. In 2009 we also completed the acquisition of all of the capital stock of Assessment Evaluation Services, Inc. for $1.1 37 Table of Contents million in cash, paid $700,000 in cash for certain assets of KPL, Inc. d/b/a Parker-Lowe & Associates and acquired various software assets for $1.1 million in cash In 2008, we liquidated $36.4 million of ARS investments for cash at par, and we completed the acquisitions of School Information Systems, Inc., VersaTrans Solutions Inc. and certain assets of Olympia Computing Company, Inc. d/b/a Schoolmaster to expand our presence in the education market. The combined purchase price, excluding cash acquired and including transaction costs, was approximately $23.9 million in cash and approximately 196,000 shares of Tyler common stock valued at $2.9 million. We paid $3.3 million, which included $2.1 million for land, for an office development. We also paid $12.7 million for an office building, land, and a related tenant lease in Yarmouth, Maine. Cash used in financing activities was primarily comprised of purchases of treasury shares, net of proceeds from stock option exercises, borrowings and payments on our revolving credit line and contributions from our employee stock purchase plan. During 2010, we purchased 3.6 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $65.8 million. These purchases were funded by borrowings of $26.5 million under our revolving credit line and cash from operations. The repurchase program, which was approved by our board of directors, was announced in October 2002, and was amended in April and July 2003, October 2004, October 2005, May 2007, May 2008, October 2008, May 2009, July 2010 and October 2010. Our board of directors authorized the repurchase of an additional 2.0 million shares on July 27, 2010 and an additional 2.0 million shares on October 26 2010. As of December 31, 2010, we had remaining authorization to repurchase up to 2.7 million additional shares of our common stock. Our share repurchase program allows us to repurchase shares at our discretion and market conditions influence the timing of the buybacks and the number of shares repurchased. These share repurchases are funded using our existing cash balances as well as borrowings under our revolving credit agreement and may occur through open market purchases and transactions structured through investment banking institutions, privately negotiated transactions and/or other mechanisms. There is no expiration date specified for the authorization and we intend to repurchase stock under the plan from time to time. During 2009, we purchased 1.2 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $17.0 million and during 2008, we purchased 4.3 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $59.0 million. In 2010 we issued 615,000 shares of common stock and received $3.2 million in aggregate proceeds upon exercise of stock options. In 2009 we received $2.3 million from the exercise of options to purchase approximately 425,000 shares of our common stock under our employee stock option plan and during 2008, we received $1.8 million from the exercise of options to purchase approximately 379,000 shares of our common stock under our employee stock option plan. In 2010, 2009 and 2008 we received $1.9 million, $1.5 million and $1.2 million, respectively, from contributions to the Tyler Technologies, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Subsequent to December 31, 2010 and through February 22, 2011 we purchased approximately 335,000 shares of our common stock for an aggregate cash purchase price of $6.8 million. On August 11, 2010, we terminated our revolving bank credit agreement and a related pledge and security agreement which had been scheduled to mature October 19, 2010 and entered into a new $150.0 million Credit Agreement (the Credit Facility) and a related pledge and security agreement with a group of seven financial institutions with Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent. The Credit Facility provides for a revolving credit line of $150.0 million (which may be increased up to $200.0 million subject to our obtaining commitments for such increase), with a $25.0 million sublimit for letters of credit. The Credit Facility matures on August 11, 2014. Borrowings under the Credit Facility may be used for general corporate purposes, including working capital requirements, acquisitions and share repurchases. In 2010 we paid $2.0 million in related debt issuance costs, which are included with sundry assets on the accompanying balance sheet. Borrowings under the Credit Facility bear interest at a rate of either (1) the Bank of Americas prime rate plus a margin of 1.50% to 2.75% or (2) the 30, 60, 90 or 180-day LIBOR rate plus a margin of 2.50% to 3.75%, with the margin determined by our consolidated leverage ratio. In 2010 and 2009 our effective average interest rate for borrowings was 3.4% and 1.8%, respectively. As of December 31, 2010 our interest rate was 2.7%. The Credit Facility is secured by substantially all of our assets, excluding real property. The Credit Facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios and other financial conditions and prohibits us from making certain investments, advances, cash dividends or loans, and limits incurrence of additional indebtedness and liens. As of December 31, 2010, we were in compliance with those covenants. As of December 31, 2010, we had $26.5 million in outstanding borrowings and unused available borrowing capacity of $115.2 million under the Credit Facility. In addition, as of December 31, 2010, our bank had issued outstanding letters of credit totaling $8.3 million 38 Table of Contents to secure surety bonds required by some of our customer contracts. These letters of credit have been collateralized by $8.3 million of our available borrowing capacity and expire through mid-2011. We paid income taxes, net of refunds received, of $15.8 million in 2010, $18.1 million in 2009, and $15.7 million in 2008. Excluding acquisitions and investments in land or office buildings, we anticipate that 2011 capital spending will be between $5.0 million and $5.5 million. We expect the majority of our capital spending in 2011 will consist of computer equipment and software for infrastructure replacements and expansion. We currently do not expect to capitalize significant amounts related to software development in 2011, but the actual amount and timing of those costs, and whether they are capitalized or expensed may result in additional capitalized software development. Capital spending in 2011 is expected to be funded from existing cash balances and cash flows from operations. From time to time we engage in discussions with potential acquisition candidates. In order to pursue such opportunities, which could require significant commitments of capital, we may be required to incur debt or to issue additional potentially dilutive securities in the future. No assurance can be given as to our future acquisition opportunities and how such opportunities will be financed. We lease office facilities, as well as transportation, computer and other equipment used in our operations under non-cancelable operating lease agreements expiring at various dates through 2018. Most leases contain renewal options and some contain purchase options. Following are the future obligations under non-cancelable leases at December 31, 2010 (in thousands): 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Total Future rental payments under operating leases $ 5,643 $ 4,659 $ 2,997 $ 2,323 $ 605 $ 1,204 $ 17,431 As of December 31, 2010, we do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, guarantees to third parties or material purchase commitments, except for the operating lease commitments listed above. CAPITALIZATION At December 31, 2010, our capitalization consisted of $26.5 million in long-term obligations and $107.0 million of shareholders equity. Our total debt-to-capital ratio was 19.9% at December 31, 2010. NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Effective January 1, 2010, we adopted the provisions of Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2009-13, Multiple Element Arrangements. ASU 2009-13 updates the existing multiple-element revenue arrangements guidance currently included in ASC 605-25, Multiple Element Arrangements. The revised guidance provides for two significant changes to the existing multiple-element revenue guidance for arrangements that are not accounted for under ASC 985-605, Software Revenue Recognition. The first change relates to the determination of when the individual deliverables included in a multiple-element arrangement may be treated as separate units of accounting. The second change modifies the manner in which the transaction consideration is allocated across the separately identified deliverables. Together, these changes will result in earlier recognition of service revenue for certain of our ASP and hosting arrangements than under previous guidance. The adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 39 Table of Contents