Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in this Annual Report. We may make forward-looking statements from time to time, both written and oral. We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially from those projected in any such forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. Risks Associated with Our Software Products Cyber-attacks and security vulnerabilities can disrupt our business and harm our competitive position. Threats to IT security can take a variety of forms. Individuals and groups of hackers, and sophisticated organizations including state-sponsored organizations, may take steps that pose threats to our clients and our IT. They may develop and deploy malicious software to attack our products and services and gain access to our networks and data centers, or act in a coordinated manner to launch distributed denial of service or other coordinated attacks. Cyber threats are constantly evolving, thereby increasing the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them. Cyber threats can have cascading impacts that unfold with increasing speed across our internal networks and systems and those of our partners and clients. Breaches of our network or data security could disrupt the security of our internal systems and business applications, impair our ability to provide services to our clients and protect the privacy of their data, result in product development delays, compromise confidential or technical business information harming our competitive position, result in theft or misuse of our intellectual property or other assets, require us to allocate more resources to 11 improve technologies, or otherwise adversely affect our business. Our business policies and internal secu rity controls may not keep pace with these evolving threats. We cannot fully protect client information from security breaches. As we continue to grow the number and scale of our cloud-based offerings, we store and process increasingly large amounts of personally identifiable and other confidential information of our clients. The continued occurrence of high-profile data breaches provides evidence of an external environment increasingly hostile to information security. Despite our efforts to improve security controls, it is possible our security controls over personal data, our training of employees on data security, and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper disclosure of client data that we store and manage. Improper disclosure could harm our reputation, lead to legal exposure to clients, or subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. Hosting services for some of our products are dependent upon the uninterrupted operation of data centers. A material portion of our business is provided through software hosting services. These hosting services depend on the uninterrupted operation of data centers and the ability to protect computer equipment and information stored in these data centers against damage that may be caused by natural disaster, fire, power loss, telecommunications or Internet failure, acts of terrorism, unauthorized intrusion, computer viruses, and other similar damaging events. If any of our data centers were to become inoperable for an extended period, we might be unable to fulfill our contractual commitments. Although we take what we believe to be reasonable precautions against such occurrences, we can give no assurance that damaging events such as these will not result in a prolonged interruption of our services, which could result in client dissatisfaction, loss of revenue, and damage to our business. We run the risk of errors or defects with new products or enhancements to existing products. Our software products are complex and may contain errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Although we have not experienced material adverse effects from any such defects or errors to date, we cannot assure you that material defects and errors will not be found in the future. Any such defects could result in a loss of revenues or delay market acceptance. Our license agreements typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential liability. However, it is possible we may not always successfully negotiate such provisions in our client contracts or the limitation of liability provisions may not be effective due to existing or future federal, state, or local laws, ordinances, or judicial decisions. Although we maintain errors and omissions and general liability insurance, and we try to structure contracts to limit liability, we cannot assure you that a successful claim could not be made or would not have a material adverse effect on our future operating results. We must timely respond to technological changes to be competitive. The market for our products is characterized by technological change, evolving industry standards in software technology, changes in client requirements, and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. The introduction of products embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. As a result, our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to enhance existing products and develop and introduce new products that keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasingly sophisticated client requirements, and achieve market acceptance. We cannot assure you that we will successfully identify new product opportunities and develop and bring new products to market in a timely and cost-effective manner. The products, capabilities, or technologies developed by others could also render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. Our business may be adversely affected if we are unable to develop or acquire new software products or develop enhancements to existing products on a timely and cost-effective basis, or if such new products or enhancements do not achieve market acceptance. We may be unable to protect our proprietary rights. Many of our product and service offerings incorporate proprietary information, trade secrets, know-how, and other intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of contracts, copyrights, and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our technology. We cannot be certain that we have taken all appropriate steps to deter misappropriation of our intellectual property. There has also been significant litigation recently involving intellectual property rights. We are not currently involved in any material intellectual property litigation; however, we may be a party to such litigation in the future to protect our proprietary information, trade secrets, know-how, and other intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that third-parties will not assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us with respect to current or future products. Any claims or litigation, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, costly, and a diversion to management. Any such claims and litigation could also cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements. Such royalty or licensing arrangements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Therefore, litigation to defend and enforce our intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, regardless of the final outcome of such litigation. 12 Clients may elect to terminate our maint enance contracts and manage operations internally. It is possible that our clients may elect to not renew maintenance contracts for our software, trying instead to maintain and operate the software themselves using their perpetual license rights (excluding software applications that we provide on a hosted or cloud basis). This could adversely affect our revenues and profits. Additionally, they may inadvertently allow our intellectual property or other information to fall into the hands of third-parties, including our competitors, which could adversely affect our business. Material portions of our business require the Internet infrastructure to be further developed or adequately maintained. Part of our future success depends on the use of the Internet as a means to access public information and perform transactions electronically, including, for example, electronic filing of court documents. This in part requires the further development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure. Among other things, this further development and maintenance will require a reliable network backbone with the necessary speed, data capacity, security, and timely development of complementary products for providing reliable Internet access and services. If this infrastructure fails to be further developed or be adequately maintained, our business would be harmed because users may not be able to access our government portals. Risks Associated with Selling Products and Services into the Public Sector Marketplace Selling products and services into the public sector poses unique challenges. We derive substantially all of our revenues from sales of software and services to state, county, and city governments, other municipal agencies, and other public entities. We expect that sales to public sector clients will continue to account for substantially all of our revenues in the future. We face many risks and challenges associated with contracting with governmental entities, including: resource limitations caused by budgetary constraints, which may provide for a termination of executed contracts due to a lack of future funding; long and complex sales cycles; contract payments at times being subject to achieving implementation milestones, and we may have differences with clients as to whether milestones have been achieved; political resistance to the concept of contracting with third-parties to provide IT solutions; legislative changes affecting local governments authority to contract with third-parties; varying bid procedures and internal processes for bid acceptance; and various other political factors, including changes in governmental administrations and personnel. Each of these risks is outside our control. If we fail to adequately adapt to these risks and uncertainties, our financial performance could be adversely affected. A prolonged economic slowdown could harm our operations. A prolonged economic slowdown or recession could reduce demand for our software products and services. Local and state governments may face financial pressures that could in turn affect our growth rate and profitability in the future. There is no assurance that local and state spending levels will be unaffected by declining or stagnant general economic conditions, and if budget shortfalls occur, they may negatively impact local and state IT spending and could adversely affect our business. A decline in the demand for IT may result in a decrease in our revenues or lower our growth rate. A decline in the demand for IT among our current and prospective clients may result in decreased revenues or a lower growth rate because our sales depend, in part, on our clients level of funding for new or additional IT systems and services. Moreover, demand for our solutions may be reduced by a decline in overall demand for computer software and services. We cannot assure you that we will be able to increase or maintain our revenues. The open bidding process creates uncertainty in predicting future contract awards. Many governmental agencies purchase products and services through an open bidding process. Generally, a governmental entity will publish an established list of requirements requesting potential vendors to propose solutions for the established requirements. To respond successfully to these requests for proposals, we must accurately estimate our cost structure for servicing a proposed contract, the time required to establish operations for the proposed client, and the likely terms of any other third-party proposals submitted. We cannot guarantee that we will win any bids in the future through the request for proposal process, or that any winning bids will 13 ultimately result in contracts on favorable terms. Our failure to secure contracts through the open bidding process, or to sec ure such contracts on favorable terms, may adversely affect our revenue and gross margins. We face significant competition from other vendors and potential new entrants into our markets. We believe we are a leading provider of integrated solutions for the public sector. However, we face competition from a variety of software vendors that offer products and services similar to those offered by us, as well as from companies offering to develop custom software. We compete based on a number of factors, including: the attractiveness of our evergreen business strategy; the breadth, depth, and quality of our product and service offerings; the ability to modify our offerings to accommoda te particular clients needs; technological innovation; name recognition; price; and our financial strength and stability. We believe the market is highly fragmented with a large number of competitors that vary in size, product platform, and product scope. Our competitors include consulting firms, publicly held companies that focus on selected segments of the public sector market, and a significant number of smaller, privately held companies. Certain competitors have greater technical, marketing, and financial resources than we do. We cannot assure you that such competitors will not develop products or offer services that are superior to our products or services or that achieve greater market acceptance. We also compete with internal, centralized IT departments of governmental entities, which requires us to persuade the end-user to stop the internal service and outsource to us. In addition, our clients and prospective clients could elect to provide information management services internally through new or existing departments, which could reduce the market for our services. We could face additional competition as other established and emerging companies enter the public sector software application market and new products and technologies are introduced. Increased competition could result in pricing pressure, fewer client orders, reduced gross margins, and loss of market share. Current and potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third-parties, thereby increasing the ability of their products to address the needs of our prospective clients. It is possible that new competitors or alliances may emerge and rapidly gain significant market share. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors, and the failure to do so would have a material adverse effect upon our business. Fixed-price contracts may affect our profits. Some of our contracts are on a fixed-priced basis, which can lead to various risks, including: the failure to accurately estimate t he resources and time required for an engagement; the failure to effectively manage our clients expectations regarding the scope of services delivered for a fixed fee; and the failure to timely and satisfactorily complete fixed-price engagements wit hin budget. If we do not adequately assess these and other risks, we may be subject to cost overruns and penalties, which may harm our financial performance. Changes in the insurance markets may affect our business. Some of our clients, primarily those for our property appraisal services, require that we secure performance bonds before they will select us as their vendor. In addition, we have in the past been required to provide letters of credit as security for the issuance of a performance bond. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to secure such performance bonds in the future on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. Our inability to obtain performance bonds on favorable terms or at all could impact our future ability to win some contract awards, particularly large property appraisal services contracts, which could negatively impact revenues. In addition, the general insurance markets experience volatility, which may lead to future increases in our general and administrative expenses and negatively impact our operating results. 14 Risks Associated with Our Periodic Results and Stock Price Software revenue recognition rules may require us to delay revenue recognition into future periods. We have in the past had to, and may in the future be required to, defer revenue recognition for software license fees due to several factors, including whether: license agreements include applications that are under development or other undelivered elements; client contracts require the delivery of services considered essential to the functionality of the software, including significant modifications, customization, or complex interfaces, that could delay product delivery or acceptance; the transaction involves acceptance criteria; the transaction invo lves contingent payment terms or fees; we are required to accept a fixed-fee services contract; or we are required to provide extended payment terms. Because of these factors and other specific requirements for software revenue recognition under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, we must have very precise terms in our contracts to recognize revenue upon the delivery and installation of our software or performance of services. Negotiation of mutually acceptable terms and conditions may extend the sales cycle. We are not always able to negotiate terms and conditions that permit revenue recognition at the time of delivery or even upon project completion. Fluctuations in quarterly revenue could adversely impact our operating results and stock price. Our revenues and operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter for a variety of reasons, including the following: prospective clients contracting decisions are often made in the last few weeks of a quarter; the size of license transactions can vary significantly; clients may unexpectedly postpone or cancel procurement processes due to changes in strategic priorities, project objectives, budget, or personnel; client purchasing processes vary significantly and a clients internal approval, expenditure authorization, and contract negotiation processes can be difficult and time consuming to complete, even after selection of a vendor; the number, timing, and significance of software product enhancements and new software product announcements by us and our competitors may affect purchase decisions; we may have to defer revenues under our revenue recognition policies; and clients may elect subscription-based arrangements, which result in lower software license revenues in the initial year as compared to traditional, on-premise software license arrangements, but generate higher overall subscription-based revenues over the term of the contract. In each fiscal quarter, our expense levels, operating costs, and hiring plans are based to some extent on projections of future revenues and are relatively fixed. If our actual revenues fall below expectations, we could experience a reduction in operating results. Also, if actual revenues or earnings for any given quarter fall below expectations, it may lead to a decline in our stock price. Increases in service revenue as a percentage of total revenues could decrease overall margins. We realize lower margins on software and appraisal service revenues than on license revenue. The majority of our contracts include both software licenses and software services. Therefore, an increase in the percentage of software service and appraisal service revenue compared to license revenue could have a detrimental impact on our overall gross margins and could adversely affect operating results. Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. Examples of factors that may significantly impact our stock price include: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; 15 announcements of technological innovations, new products, or new contracts by us or our competitors; developments with respect to p atents, copyrights, or other proprietary rights; conditions and trends in the software and other technology industries; adoption of new accounting standards affecting the software industry; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; an d general market conditions and other factors. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of technology company stocks and may in the future adversely affect the market price of our stock. Sometimes, securities class action litigation is filed following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular companys securities. We cannot assure you that similar litigation will not occur in the future with respect to us. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of managements attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect upon our financial performance. Financial Outlook. From time to time, in press releases and otherwise, we may publish forecasts or other forward-looking statements regarding our results, including estimated revenues or earnings. Any forecast of our future performance reflects various assumptions. These assumptions are subject to significant uncertainties, and as a matter of course, any number of them may prove to be incorrect. Further, the achievement of any forecast depends on numerous risks and other factors (including those described in this discussion), many of which are beyond our control. As a result, we cannot be certain that our performance will be consistent with any management forecasts or that the variation from such forecasts will not be material and adverse. Current and potential stockholders are cautioned not to base their entire analysis of our business and prospects upon isolated predictions, but instead are encouraged to utilize our entire publicly available mix of historical and forward-looking information, as well as other available information regarding us, our products and services, and the software industry when evaluating our prospective results of operations. Risks Associated with Our Growth Strategy and Other General Corporate Risks We may experience difficulties in executing our acquisition strategy. A material portion of our historical growth has resulted from strategic acquisitions. Although our focus is on internal growth, we will continue to identify and pursue strategic acquisitions with suitable candidates. These transactions involve significant challenges and risks, including the transaction does not advance our business strategy, we get no satisfactory return on our investment, we have difficulty integrating business systems and technology, we have difficulty retaining or integrating new employees, the transactions distract management from our other businesses, we acquire unforeseen liabilities, and other unanticipated events. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully integrate future acquisitions into our operations. It may take longer than expected to realize the full benefits of these transactions, such as increased revenue, enhanced efficiencies, or increased market share, or the benefits may be ultimately smaller than we expected. Although we conduct due diligence reviews of potential acquisition candidates, we may not identify all material liabilities or risks related to acquisition candidates. There can be no assurance that any such strategic acquisitions will be accomplished on favorable terms or will result in profitable operations. Our failure to properly manage growth could adversely affect our business. We have expanded our operations significantly since 1998, when we entered the business of providing software solutions and services to the public sector. We intend to continue expansion in the foreseeable future to pursue existing and potential market opportunities. This growth places a significant demand on management and operational resources. In order to manage growth effectively, we must implement and improve our operational systems, procedures, and controls on a timely basis. If we fail to implement these systems, our business may be materially adversely affected. We may be unable to hire, integrate, and retain qualified personnel. Our continued success will depend upon the availability and performance of our key management, sales, marketing, client support, and product development personnel. The loss of key management or technical personnel could adversely affect us. We believe that our continued success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract, integrate, and retain such personnel. We have at times experienced and continue to experience difficulty in recruiting qualified personnel. Competition for qualified software development, sales, and other personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. 16 Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations, and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure can create uncertainty for public companies. The costs required to comply with such evolving laws are difficult to predict. To maintain high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards. This investment may result in an unforeseen increase in general and administrative expenses and a diversion of managements time and attention from revenue-generating activities, which may harm our operating results. We dont foresee paying dividends on our common stock. We have not declared or paid a cash dividend since we entered the business of providing software solutions and services to the public sector in 1998. We intend to retain earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, and Delaware law could deter takeover attempts. Our board of directors may issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock and may determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions, including voting and conversion rights, of these preferred shares. These determinations may be made without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock may make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. In addition, some provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, and the Delaware General Corporation Law could also delay, prevent, or make more difficult a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES. We occupy approximately 871,000 square feet of office space, of which 541,000 square feet is in office facilities we own. We own or lease offices for our major operations in Arizona, Colorado, Georgia, Iowa, Maine, Michigan, Montana, New York, Ohio, Texas and Washington. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. Other than routine litigation incidental to our business, there are no material legal proceedings pending to which we are party or to which any of our properties are subject. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS. Not applicable. 17 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol TYL. At December 31, 2015, we had approximately 1,585 stockholders of record. Most of our stockholders hold their shares in street name; therefore, there are substantially more than 1,585 beneficial owners of our common stock. The following table shows, for the calendar periods indicated, the high and low sales price per share of our common stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange. High Low 2014: First Quarter $ 107.99 $ 81.54 Second Quarter 91.69 74.37 Third Quarter 97.53 84.70 Fourth Quarter 115.37 86.05 2015: First Quarter $ 125.84 $ 103.18 Second Quarter 133.54 118.05 Third Quarter 152.91 127.25 Fourth Quarter 184.01 150.00 2016: First Quarter (through February 22, 2016) $ 172.50 $ 120.16 We did not pay any cash dividends in 2015 or 2014. Our bank credit agreement contains restrictions on the payment of cash dividends. We intend to retain earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business, and, therefore, we do not anticipate declaring a cash dividend in the foreseeable future. The following table summarizes certain information related to our stock option plan and our employee stock purchase plan. There are no warrants or rights related to our equity compensation plans as of December 31, 2015. Number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights as of December 31, 2015 Weighted average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rights Number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding securities reflected in initial column as of December 31, 2015) Plan Category Equity compensation plans approved by security shareholders: Stock option plan 5,163,593 $ 64.43 3,722,321 Employee stock purchase plan 8,354 148.17 898,564 Equity compensation plans not approved by security shareholders 5,171,947 $ 64.57 4,620,885 18 As of December 31, 2015, we had authorization to repurchase up to 1.4 million additional shares of Tyler common stock . During 2015, we purchased approximately 5,400 shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $645,000. A summary of the repurchase activity during 2015 is as follows: Period Total number of shares repurchased Average price paid per share Maximum number of shares that may be repurchased under current authorization Three months ended March 31 $ 1,406,000 Three months ended June 30 5,400 119.50 1,400,600 Three months ended September 30 1,400,600 Three months ended December 31 1,400,600 5,400 The repurchase program, which was approved by our board of directors, was announced in October 2002, and was amended at various times from 2003 through 2011. There is no expiration date specified for the authorization and we intend to repurchase stock under the plan from time to time. Subsequent to December 31, 2015 and through February 22, 2016, we purchased approximately 241,000 shares of our common stock for an aggregate cash purchase price of $31.3 million. 19 Performance Graph The following Performance Graph and related information shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each as amended, except to the extent that we specifically incorporate it by reference into such filing. The following table compares total Shareholder returns for Tyler over the last five years to the Standard and Poors 500 Stock Index and the Standard and Poors 600 Information Technology Index assuming a $100 investment made on December 31, 2010. Each of the three measures of cumulative total return assumes reinvestment of dividends. The stock performance shown on the graph below is not necessarily indicative of future price performance. Company / Index 12/31/10 12/31/11 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/14 12/31/15 Tyler Technologies, Inc. 100 145.04 233.33 491.96 527.17 839.69 S&P 500 Stock Index 100 102.11 118.45 156.82 178.29 180.75 S&P 600 Information Technology Index 100 95.98 107.52 155.80 176.51 184.72 20 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA. (In thousands, except per share data) FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS DATA: Revenues $ 591,022 $ 493,101 $ 416,643 $ 363,304 $ 309,391 Cost and expenses: Cost of revenues (a) 313,835 259,730 223,440 195,602 167,479 Selling, general and administrative expenses (a) 133,317 108,260 98,289 86,706 75,650 Research and development expense 29,922 25,743 23,269 20,140 16,414 Amortization of customer and trade name (a) intangibles 5,905 4,546 4,517 4,279 3,331 Operating income 108,043 94,822 67,128 56,577 46,517 Other income (expenses), net 381 (355 ) (1,309 ) (2,709 ) (2,404 ) Income before income taxes 108,424 94,467 65,819 53,868 44,113 Income tax provision 43,555 35,527 26,718 20,874 16,556 Net income 64,869 58,940 39,101 32,994 27,557 Net earnings per diluted share $ 1.77 $ 1.66 $ 1.13 $ 1.00 $ 0.83 Weighted average diluted shares 36,552 35,401 34,590 32,916 33,154 STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS DATA: Cash flows provided by operating activities $ 89,013 $ 123,437 $ 66,090 $ 58,668 $ 56,435 Cash flows used by investing activities (398,459 ) (11,555 ) (25,658 ) (34,736 ) (28,809 ) Cash flows provided (used) by financing activities 136,366 15,409 32,038 (18,852 ) (28,414 ) BALANCE SHEET DATA: Total assets $ 1,356,570 $ 569,812 $ 444,488 $ 338,666 $ 295,391 Revolving line of credit 66,000 18,000 60,700 Shareholders' equity 858,857 336,973 246,319 145,299 78,110 (a) On November 16, 2015, we completed the acquisition of NWS. Our o perating results include the results of NWS from the date of acquisition and include expenses of approximately $5.9 million for financial advisory, legal, accounting, due diligence, valuation and other services necessary to complete the acquisition, as well as $3.5 million of amortization expense related to NWS acquisition intangibles. ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that are not historical in nature and typically address future or anticipated events, trends, expectations or beliefs with respect to our financial condition, results of operations or business. Forward-looking statements often contain words such as believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, forecasts, estimates, plans, intends, continues, may, will, should, projects, might, could or other similar words or phrases. Similarly, statements that describe our business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. We believe there is a reasonable basis for our forward-looking statements, but they are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results could differ materially from the expectations and beliefs reflected in the forward-looking statements. We presently consider the following to be among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and beliefs: (1) changes in the budgets or regulatory environments of our clients, primarily local and state governments, that could negatively impact information technology spending; (2) our ability to protect client information from security breaches and provide uninterrupted operations of data centers; (3) our ability to successfully achieve growth or operational synergies through the integration of acquired businesses, while avoiding unanticipated costs and disruptions to existing operations; (4) material portions of our business require the Internet infrastructure to be adequately maintained; (5) our ability to achieve our financial forecasts due to various factors, including project delays by our clients, reductions in transaction size, fewer transactions, delays in delivery of new products or releases or a decline in our renewal rates for service agreements; (6) general economic, political and market conditions; (7) technological and market risks associated with the development of new products or services or of new versions of existing or acquired products or services; (8) competition in the industry in which we conduct business and the impact of competition on pricing, client retention and pressure 21 for new products or services; (9) the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel and dealing with the loss or retirement of key members of management or other key personnel; and (10) costs of compliance and any failure to comply with government and stock exchange regulations. A detailed discussion of these factors and other r isks that affect our business are described in Item 1A, Risk Factors. We expressly disclaim any obligation to publicly update or revise our forward-looking statements. OVERVIEW General We provide integrated information management solutions and services for the public sector, with a focus on local governments. We develop and market a broad line of software products and services to address the IT needs of cities, counties, schools and other local government entities. In addition, we provide professional IT services to our clients, including software and hardware installation, data conversion, training and for certain clients, product modifications, along with continuing maintenance and support for clients using our systems. We also provide subscription-based services such as software as a service (SaaS), which utilizes the Tyler private cloud, and electronic document filing solutions (e-filing), which simplify the filing and management of court related documents. Revenues for e-filing are derived from transaction fees and in some cases fixed fee arrangements. We also provide property appraisal outsourcing services for taxing jurisdictions. Our products generally automate six major functional areas: (1) financial management and education, (2) courts and justice, (3) public safety (4) property appraisal and tax, (5) planning, regulatory and maintenance, and (6) land and vital records management. We report our results in two segments. The Enterprise Software Solutions (ESS) segment provides municipal and county governments and schools with software systems and services to meet their information technology and automation needs for mission-critical back-office functions such as financial management; courts and justice processes; public safety; planning, regulatory and maintenance; and land and vital records management. The Appraisal and Tax Software Solutions and Services (ATSS) segment provides systems and software that automate the appraisal and assessment of real and personal property as well as property appraisal outsourcing services for local governments and taxing authorities. Property appraisal outsourcing services include: the physical inspection of commercial and residential properties; data collection and processing; computer analysis for property valuation; preparation of tax rolls; community education; and arbitration between taxpayers and the assessing jurisdiction. Total organic revenues increased 17% in 2015 compared to 2014. On November 16, 2015, we acquired all of the capital stock of New World Systems Corporation (NWS), which provides public safety and financial solutions for local governments. The purchase price, net of cash acquired of $22.5 million, was $337.5 million in cash, of which $4.0 million was accrued at December 31, 2015, and 2.1 million shares of Tyler common stock valued at $362.8 million. On May 29, 2015, we acquired all of the capital stock of Brazos Technology Corporation (Brazos), which provides mobile hand held solutions primarily to law enforcement agencies for field accident reporting and electronically issuing citations. The purchase price, net of cash acquired and including debt assumed, was $6.1 million in cash and 12,500 shares of Tyler common stock valued at $1.5 million. The operating results of NWS and Brazos are included with the operating results of the Enterprise Software Solutions segment since their respective dates of acquisition. We monitor and analyze several key performance indicators in order to manage our business and evaluate our financial and operating performance. These indicators include the following: Revenues We derive our revenues from five primary sources: sale of software licenses and royalties; subscription-based arrangements; software services; maintenance and appraisal services. Subscriptions and maintenance are considered recurring revenue sources and comprised approximately 60% of our revenue in 2015. The number of new SaaS clients and the number of existing clients who convert from our traditional software arrangements to our SaaS model are a significant driver to our business, together with new software license sales and maintenance rate increases. In addition, we also monitor our customer base and churn as we historically have experienced very low customer turnover. During 2015, based on our number of customers, turnover was approximately 3%. Cost of Revenues and Gross Margins Our primary cost component is personnel expenses in connection with providing software implementation, subscription-based services, maintenance and support, and appraisal services to our clients. We can improve gross margins by controlling headcount and related costs and by expanding our revenue base, especially from those products and services that produce incremental revenue with minimal incremental cost, such as software licenses and royalties, subscription-based services, and maintenance and support. Our appraisal projects are cyclical in nature, and we often 22 employ appraisal personnel on a short-term basis to coincide with the life of a project. As of December 31, 2015, our total employee count increased to 3,586 from 2,856 at December 31, 2014. This increase includes 513 employees a dded as a result of acquisitions completed in 2015 . Selling, General and Administrative (SG&A) Expenses The primary components of SG&A expenses are administrative and sales personnel salaries and commissions, share-based compensation expense, marketing expense, rent and professional fees. Sales commissions typically fluctuate with revenues and share-based compensation expense generally increases when the market price of our stock increases. Other administrative expenses tend to grow at a slower rate than revenues. In 2015, SG&A expenses include approximately $5.9 million for financial advisory, legal, accounting, due diligence, valuation and other various services necessary to complete the NWS acquisition. Liquidity and Cash Flows The primary driver of our cash flows is net income. Uses of cash include acquisitions, capital investments in property and equipment and discretionary purchases of treasury stock. Our working capital needs are fairly stable throughout the year with the significant components of cash outflows being payment of personnel expenses offset by cash inflows representing collection of accounts receivable and cash receipts from clients in advance of revenue being earned. In recent years, we have also received significant amounts of cash from employees exercising stock options and contributing to our Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Balance Sheet Cash, accounts receivable and days sales outstanding and deferred revenue balances are important indicators of our business. New Accounting Pronouncements On May 28, 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. This ASU is the result of a convergence project between the FASB and the International Accounting Standards Board. The core principle behind ASU 2014-09 is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods and services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for delivering those goods and services. This model involves a five-step process that includes identifying the contract with the customer, identifying the performance obligations in the contract, determining the transaction price, allocating the transaction prices to the performance obligations in the contract and recognizing revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies the performance obligations. The guidance in the ASU supersedes existing revenue recognition guidance and is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016 with early application not permitted. The ASU allows two methods of adoption; a full retrospective approach where three years of financial information are presented in accordance with the new standard, and a modified retrospective approach where the ASU is applied to the most current period presented in the financial statements. On August 12, 2015, the FASB voted for a one-year deferral of the effective date of the new standard and now requires application of the new standard no later than annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim reporting periods therein. However, under the proposal, public entities would be permitted to elect to early adopt the new standard as of the original effective date. We currently expect to adopt the new standard in fiscal year 2018 in accordance with the revised effective date. Outlook Activity in the local government software market continues to be good, and with the inclusion of NWS, our backlog at December 31, 2015 reached $844.5 million, a 20% increase from last year. With our strong financial position and cash flow, we plan to accelerate our investment in product development with expected research and development expense of approximately $47.0 million. We believe that increasing the investment in our products will better position us to continue to expand our competitive position in the public sector software market over the long term. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, the reported amounts of revenues, cost of revenues and expenses during the reporting period, and related disclosure of contingencies. The Notes to the Financial Statements included as part of this Annual Report describe our significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the financial statements. Significant items subject to such estimates and assumptions include the application of the percentage-of-completion and proportional performance methods of revenue recognition, the carrying amount and estimated useful lives of intangible assets, determination of share-based compensation expense and valuation allowance 23 for receivables. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that w e believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimate s under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies require significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements. Revenue Recognition . We recognize revenues in accordance with the provisions of Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 605, Revenue Recognition and ASC 985-605, Software Revenue Recognition. Our revenues are derived from sales of software licenses and royalties, subscription-based services, appraisal services, maintenance and support, and services that typically range from installation, training and basic consulting to software modification and customization to meet specific customer needs. For multiple element software arrangements, which do not entail the performance of services that are considered essential to the functionality of the software, we generally record revenue when the delivered products or performed services result in a legally enforceable and non-refundable claim. We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts and sales adjustments, which are provided at the time the revenue is recognized. Because most of our customers are governmental entities, we rarely incur a loss resulting from the inability of a customer to make required payments. In a limited number of cases, we encounter a customer who is dissatisfied with some aspect of the software product or our service, and we may offer a concession to such customer. In those limited situations where we grant a concession, we rarely reduce the contract arrangement fee, but alternatively may perform additional services, such as additional training or creating additional custom reports. These amounts have historically been nominal. In connection with our customer contracts and the adequacy of related allowances and measures of progress towards contract completion, our project managers are charged with the responsibility to continually review the status of each customer on a specific contract basis. Also, we review, on at least a quarterly basis, significant past due accounts receivable and the adequacy of related reserves. Events or changes in circumstances that indicate that the carrying amount for the allowances for doubtful accounts and sales adjustments may require revision, include, but are not limited to, deterioration of a customers financial condition, failure to manage our customers expectations regarding the scope of the services to be delivered, and defects or errors in new versions or enhancements of our software products. We use contract accounting, primarily the percentage-of-completion method, as discussed in ASC 605-35, Construction Type and Certain Production Type Contracts, for those software arrangements that involve significant production, modification or customization of the software, or where our software services are otherwise considered essential to the functionality of the software. We measure progress-to-completion primarily using labor hours incurred, or value added. In addition, we recognize revenue using the proportional performance method of revenue recognition for our property appraisal projects, some of which can range up to five years. These methods rely on estimates of total expected contract revenue, billings and collections and expected contract costs, as well as measures of progress toward completion. We believe reasonably dependable estimates of revenue and costs and progress applicable to various stages of a contract can be made. At times, we perform additional and/or non-contractual services for little to no incremental fee to satisfy customer expectations. If changes occur in delivery, productivity or other factors used in developing our estimates of expected costs or revenues, we revise our cost and revenue estimates, and any revisions are charged to income in the period in which the facts that give rise to that revision first become known. In connection with these and certain other contracts, we may perform the work prior to when the services are billable and/or payable pursuant to the contract. The termination clauses in most of our contracts provide for the payment for the value of products delivered and services performed in the event of an early termination. For SaaS arrangements, we evaluate whether the customer has the contractual right to take possession of our software at any time during the hosting period without significant penalty and whether the customer can feasibly maintain the software on the customers hardware or enter into another arrangement with a third-party to host the software. If we determine that the customer has the contractual right to take possession of our software at any time during the hosting period without significant penalty and can feasibly maintain the software on the customers hardware or enter into another arrangement with a third-party to host the software, we recognize the license, professional services and hosting services revenues pursuant to ASC 985-605, Software Revenue Recognition. For SaaS arrangements that do not meet the criteria for recognition under ASC 985-605, we account for the elements under ASC 605-25, Multiple Element Arrangements using all applicable facts and circumstances, including whether (i) the element has stand-alone value, (ii) there is a general right of return and (iii) the revenue is contingent on delivery of other elements. We allocate the contract value to each element of the arrangement that qualifies for treatment as a separate element based on vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value (VSOE), and if VSOE is not available, third-party evidence, and if third-party evidence is unavailable, estimated selling price. For professional services associated with SaaS arrangements that we determine do not have stand-alone value to the customer or are contingent on delivery of other elements, we recognize the services revenue ratably over the remaining contractual period once hosting has gone live and we may begin billing for the hosting services. We record amounts that have been invoiced in accounts receivable and in deferred revenue or revenues, depending on whether the revenue recognition criteria have been met. 24 In connection with certain of our contracts, we have recorded retentions receivable or unbilled receivables consisting of costs and estimated profit in excess of billings as of the balance s heet date. Many of the contracts which give rise to unbilled receivables at a given balance sheet date are subject to billings in the subsequent accounting period. We review unbilled receivables and related contract provisions to ensure we are justified in recognizing revenue prior to billing the customer and that we have objective evidence which allows us to recognize such revenue. In addition, we have a sizable amount of deferred revenue, which represents billings in excess of revenue earned. The majority of this liability consists of maintenance billings for which payments are made in advance and the revenue is ratably earned over the maintenance period, generally one year. We also have deferred revenue for those contracts in which we receive a deposit an d the conditions in which to record revenue for the service or product has not been met. On a periodic basis, we review by customer the detail components of our deferred revenue to ensure our accounting remains appropriate. Intangible Assets and Goodwill . Our business acquisitions typically result in the creation of goodwill and other intangible asset balances, and these balances affect the amount and timing of future period amortization expense, as well as expense we could possibly incur as a result of an impairment charge. The cost of acquired companies is allocated to identifiable tangible and intangible assets based on estimated fair value, with the excess allocated to goodwill. Accordingly, we have a significant balance of acquisition date intangible assets, including software, customer related intangibles, trade name, leases and goodwill. These intangible assets (other than goodwill) are amortized over their estimated useful lives. We currently have no intangible assets with indefinite lives other than goodwill. When testing goodwill for impairment quantitatively, we first compare the fair value of each reporting unit with its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, a second step is performed to measure the amount of potential impairment. In the second step, we compare the implied fair value of reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of the reporting units goodwill. If the carrying amount of reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized. The fair values calculated in our impairment tests are determined using discounted cash flow models involving several assumptions. The assumptions that are used are based upon what we believe a hypothetical marketplace participant would use in estimating fair value. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. We evaluate the reasonableness of the fair value calculations of our reporting units by comparing the total of the fair value of all of our reporting units to our total market capitalization. Our annual goodwill impairment analysis, which we performed quantitatively during the second quarter of 2015, did not result in an impairment charge. During 2015, we did not identify any triggering events that would require an update to our annual impairment review. All intangible assets (other than goodwill) are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of other intangible assets is measured by comparison of the carrying amount to estimated undiscounted future cash flows. The assessment of recoverability or of the estimated useful life for amortization purposes will be affected if the timing or the amount of estimated future operating cash flows is not achieved. Such indicators may include, among others: a significant decline in expected future cash flows; a sustained, significant decline in stock price and market capitalization; a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate; unanticipated competition; and reductions in growth rates. In addition, products, capabilities, or technologies developed by others may render our software products obsolete or non-competitive. Any adverse change in these factors could have a significant impact on the recoverability of goodwill or other intangible assets. Share-Based Compensation. We have a stock option plan that provides for the grant of stock options to key employees, directors and non-employee consultants. We estimate the fair value of share-based awards on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option valuation model. Share-based compensation expense includes the estimated effects of forfeitures, which will be adjusted over the requisite service period to the extent actual forfeitures differ, or are expected to differ from such estimates. Changes in estimated forfeitures are recognized in the period of change and will also impact the amount of expense to be recognized in future periods. Forfeiture rate assumptions are derived from historical data. We estimate stock price volatility at the date of grant based on the historical volatility of our common stock. Estimated option life is determined using the weighted-average period the stock options are expected to be outstanding based primarily on the options vesting terms, remaining contractual life and the employees expected exercise based on historical patterns. Determining the appropriate fair-value model and calculating the fair value of share-based awards at the grant date requires considerable judgment, including estimating stock price volatility, expected option life and forfeiture rates. 25 ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND OTHER The following discussion compares the historical results of operations on a basis consistent with GAAP for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013. Percentage of Total Revenues Years ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 Revenues: Software licenses and royalties 10.0 % 10.0 % 9.8 % Subscriptions 18.9 17.8 14.8 Software services 23.7 23.1 22.4 Maintenance 41.6 43.1 46.0 Appraisal services 4.2 4.4 5.0 Hardware and other 1.6 1.6 2.0 Total revenues 100.0 100.0 100.0 Operating Expenses: Cost of software licenses, royalties and acquired software 1.0 0.8 1.1 Cost of software services, maintenance and subscriptions 48.2 47.9 47.9 Cost of appraisal services 2.7 2.9 3.3 Cost of hardware and other 1.1 1.1 1.3 Selling, general and administrative expenses 22.6 22.0 23.6 Research and development expense 5.1 5.2 5.6 Amortization of customer and trade name intangibles 1.0 0.9 1.1 Operating income 18.3 19.2 16.1 Other income (expense), net 0.1 (0.1 ) (0.3 ) Income before income taxes 18.4 19.1 15.8 Income tax provision 7.4 7.2 6.4 Net income 11.0 % 11.9 % 9.4 % 2015 Compared to 2014 Revenues On November 16, 2015, we acquired NWS, which provides public safety and financial solutions for local governments and its operating results are included with the operating results of the ESS segment since the date of acquisition. The following table details revenue for NWS for the period from November 16, 2015 to December 31, 2015, which is included in our consolidated statement of comprehensive income: 2015 Revenues: Software licenses $ 1,507 Subscriptions 632 Software services 2,062 Maintenance 5,624 Hardware and other 259 Total revenues $ 10,084 In May 2015, we acquired a company which provides mobile hand-held solutions primarily to law enforcement agencies for field accident reporting and electronically issuing citations. In August 2014, we acquired a company which provides civil process management, typically to county sheriff departments. The impact of these acquisitions on our operating results are not considered 26 material an d are not included in the table above. The results of their operations are included in our ESS segment from their respective dates of acquisition. Software licenses and royalties. The following table sets forth a comparison of our software licenses and royalties revenue for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2015 2014 $ % ESS $ 54,376 $ 46,047 $ 8,329 18 % ATSS 4,632 3,018 1,614 53 Total software licenses and royalties revenue $ 59,008 $ 49,065 $ 9,943 20 % Excluding the results of acquisitions, software license revenue increased 15% compared to the prior year. The majority of this growth was due to a more active marketplace as the result of improvement in local government economic conditions, as well as our increasingly strong competitive position, which we attribute in part to our investment in product development in recent years. In addition, add-on sales to our existing customer base for courts and justice related solutions that assist and support the transition to a paperless environment increased approximately $1.3 million. Although the mix of new contracts between subscription-based and perpetual license arrangements may vary from quarter to quarter and year to year, we expect our longer-term software license growth rate to be negatively impacted by a growing number of customers choosing our subscription-based options, rather than purchasing the software under a traditional perpetual software license arrangement. Subscription-based arrangements result in lower software license revenue in the initial year as compared to perpetual software license arrangements but generate higher overall revenue over the term of the contract. Our new client mix in 2015 was approximately 76% selecting perpetual software license arrangements and approximately 24% selecting subscription-based arrangements compared to a client mix in 2014 of approximately 74% selecting perpetual software license arrangements and approximately 26% selecting subscription-based arrangements. 134 new clients entered into subscription-based software arrangements in 2015 compared to 138 new clients in 2014. Subscriptions. The following table sets forth a comparison of our subscriptions revenue for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2015 2014 $ % ESS $ 107,090 $ 84,322 $ 22,768 27 % ATSS 4,843 3,526 1,317 37 Total subscriptions revenue $ 111,933 $ 87,848 $ 24,085 27 % Subscription-based services revenue primarily consists of revenue derived from our SaaS arrangements, which utilize the Tyler private cloud. As part of our subscription-based services, we also provide electronic document filing solutions (e-filing) that simplify the filing and management of court related documents for courts and law offices. E-filing revenue is derived from transaction fees and fixed fee arrangements. Subscription-based services revenue increased 27% compared to 2014. E-filing services contributed approximately $7.7 million of the subscriptions revenue increase in 2015. Most of the e-filing revenue increase related to several statewide contracts, several of which implemented mandatory electronic filing near the end of 2014 and throughout 2015. New SaaS clients as well as existing clients who converted to our SaaS model provided the remainder of the subscriptions revenue increase. In 2015, we added 134 new SaaS clients and 66 existing clients elected to convert to our SaaS model. The average contract sizes in 2015 were 38% and 22% higher than 2014 for new clients and clients converting to our SaaS model, respectively. Software services. The following table sets forth a comparison of our software services revenue for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2015 2014 $ % ESS $ 129,068 $ 104,146 $ 24,922 24 % ATSS 10,784 9,675 1,109 11 Total software services revenue $ 139,852 $ 113,821 $ 26,031 23 % 27 Software services revenue primarily consists of professional services billed in connection with implementing our software, converting client data, training client pe rsonnel, custom development activities and consulting. New clients who purchase our proprietary software licenses generally also contract with us to provide for the related software services. Existing clients also periodically purchase additional training, consulting and minor programming services. Excluding the results of acquisitions, software services revenue grew 20% compared to the prior year period. This growth is mainly due to much higher revenue from proprietary software arrangements, as well as add itions to our implementation and support staff, which increased our capacity to deliver backlog. Maintenance. The following table sets forth a comparison of our maintenance revenue for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2015 2014 $ % ESS $ 227,586 $ 195,881 $ 31,705 16 % ATSS 17,951 16,815 1,136 7 Total maintenance revenue $ 245,537 $ 212,696 $ 32,841 15 % We provide maintenance and support services for our software products and certain third-party software. Excluding the results of acquisitions, maintenance revenue grew 12% compared to the prior year. Maintenance and support revenue increased mainly due to growth in our installed customer base from new software license sales as well as annual maintenance rate increases. Appraisal services. The following table sets forth a comparison of our appraisal services revenue for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2015 2014 $ % ESS $ $ $ % ATSS 25,065 21,802 3,263 15 Total appraisal services revenue $ 25,065 $ 21,802 $ 3,263 15 % The appraisal services business is somewhat cyclical and driven in part by statutory revaluation cycles in various states. Appraisal services revenue benefitted from the addition of several new revaluation contracts, including the City of Detroit, and the current appraisal cycle in Indiana, both of which began in mid-2014. In mid-2015, Franklin County, Ohio began a full reappraisal cycle, which also contributed to appraisal services revenue. Cost of Revenues and Gross Margins The following table sets forth a comparison of the key components of our cost of revenues for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2015 2014 $ % Software licenses and royalties $ 1,632 $ 1,900 $ (268 ) (14 ) % Acquired software 4,440 1,858 2,582 139 Software services, maintenance and subscriptions 285,340 236,363 48,977 21 Appraisal services 15,922 14,284 1,638 11 Hardware and other 6,501 5,325 1,176 22 Total cost of revenues $ 313,835 $ 259,730 $ 54,105 21 % 28 The following table sets forth a comparison of gross margin percentage by revenue type for the years ended December 31: Gross margin percentage 2015 2014 Change Software licenses, royalties and acquired software 89.7 % 92.3 % (2.6 ) % Software services, maintenance and subscriptions 42.6 43.0 (0.4 ) Appraisal services 36.5 34.5 2.0 Hardware and other 32.5 32.3 0.2 Overall gross margin 46.9 % 47.3 % (0.4 ) % Software licenses, royalties and acquired software . Costs of software licenses, royalties and acquired software are primarily comprised of third-party software costs and amortization expense for acquired software. We do not have any direct costs associated with royalties. In 2015, our software licenses, royalties and acquired software gross margin percentage declined compared to the prior year due to much higher amortization expense for acquired software resulting from our acquisition of NWS. Excluding the results of NWS, our software license, royalties and acquired software gross margin was 93.6% which increased 1.3% from the prior year period mainly due to higher revenues from proprietary software arrangements. Software services, maintenance and subscriptions . Cost of software services, maintenance and subscriptions primarily consists of personnel costs related to installation of our software, conversion of client data, training client personnel and support activities and various other services such as custom client development and on-going operation of SaaS and e-filing arrangements. In 2015, the software services, maintenance and subscriptions gross margin percentage declined compared to the prior year mainly due to onboarding costs associated with accelerated hiring to ensure that we are well-positioned to deliver our current backlog and anticipated new business. Excluding 285 employees added with acquisitions, our implementation and support staff has grown by 200 employees since December 31, 2014. In addition, in 2015, we incurred $1.4 million more in contract labor cost than 2014 in an effort to maintain flexibility to accommodate fluctuations in demand for professional services. The gross margin decline was somewhat offset because costs related to maintenance and various other services such as SaaS and e-filing typically grow at a slower rate than related revenue due to leverage in the utilization of our support and maintenance staff and economies of scale. Price increases also resulted in slightly higher rates on certain services. Appraisal services . Appraisal services revenue comprised approximately 4% of total revenue. The appraisal services gross margin increased 2% compared to 2014. A high proportion of the costs of appraisal services revenue are variable, as we often hire temporary employees to assist in appraisal projects, whose term of employment generally ends with the projects completion. The appraisal services gross margin was favorably impacted by operational efficiencies associated with a large revaluation contract that began late 2014. Our 2015 blended gross margin declined 0.4% compared to 2014. The gross margin was negatively impacted by increased acquired software amortization expense associated with the NWS acquisition and expenses associated with increased hiring of implementation and development staff in order to expand our capacity to implement our contract backlog. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses consist primarily of salaries, employee benefits, travel, share-based compensation expense, commissions and related overhead costs for administrative and sales and marketing employees, as well as, professional fees, trade show activities, advertising costs and other marketing related costs. The following table sets forth a comparison of our SG&A expenses for the following years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2015 2014 $ % Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 133,317 $ 108,260 $ 25,057 23 % 29 SG&A as a percentage of revenue was 22.6% in 2015 compared to 22.0% in 2014. In 2015, our SG&A expenses include approximately $5.9 million for financial advisory, legal, ac counting, due diligence, valuation and other various services necessary to complete the NWS acquisition. In addition, our 2015 operating results include $4.0 million of SG&A expenses for NWS from the date of acquisition. The remaining SG&A expense increas e is mainly due to compensation cost related to increased staff levels, higher stock compensation expense and increased commission expense as a result of higher sales. Excluding 140 employees added with acquisitions, we have added 16 employees mainly to o ur sales and finance teams since December 31, 2014. In addition, our 2015 stock compensation expense rose $4.2 million, mainly due to increases in our stock price over the last few years. Research and Development Expense Research and development expense consists primarily of salaries, employee benefits and related overhead costs associated with product development. The following table sets forth a comparison of our research and development expense for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2015 2014 $ % Research and development expense $ 29,922 $ 25,743 $ 4,179 16 % Research and development expense consists mainly of costs associated with development of new products and technologies from which we do not currently generate revenue, as well as costs related to the ongoing development efforts for Microsoft Dynamics AX. In February 2015, we announced that our contractual research and development commitment to develop public sector functionality for Microsoft Dynamics AX expires with the release of Dynamics AX 7, which is expected to occur in the first quarter of 2016. We are currently discussing with Microsoft Corporation the possibility of additional research and development beyond Dynamics AX 7. If we cannot agree to terms of any future commitments, we will continue to provide sustained engineering and technical support for the public sector functionality within Dynamics AX. License and maintenance royalties for all applicable domestic and international sales of Dynamics AX to public sector entities will continue under the terms of the contract. Research and development expense in 2015 includes approximately $1.5 million related to NWS. The remaining increase compared to 2014 was primarily due to increased staffing to maintain and enhance our competitive position and annual wage adjustments. Amortization of Customer and Trade Name Intangibles Acquisition intangibles are comprised of the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net tangible assets acquired that is allocated to acquired software, leases and customer and trade name intangibles. The remaining excess purchase price is allocated to goodwill that is not subject to amortization. Amortization expense related to acquired software is included with cost of revenues, while amortization expense of customer and trade name intangibles is recorded as operating expense. The estimated useful lives of both customer and trade name intangibles range from five to 25 years. The following table sets forth a comparison of amortization of customer and trade name intangibles for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2015 2014 $ % Amortization of customer and trade name intangibles $ 5,905 $ 4,546 $ 1,359 30 % In 2015, we completed two acquisitions that increased amortizable customer and trade name intangibles by approximately $127.8 million. This amount is being amortized over a weighted average period of 15 years. We also added approximately $3.7 million to acquisition related intangibles to reflect the fair value of acquired leases, which will be amortized over the weighted average life of 9 years. Estimated annual amortization expense relating to customer and trade name acquisition intangibles, excluding acquired software for which the amortization expense is recorded as cost of revenues, for the next five years is as follows (in thousands): 2016 $ 13,448 2017 13,448 2018 13,299 2019 11,944 2020 10,795 30 Amortization expense relating to acquired leases will be recorded as a reduction to other income and is expected to be $444,000 in 2016, $444,000 in 2017, $426,000 in 2018, $372,000 in 2019, $313,000 in 2020 and $1.7 million thereafter. Other The following table sets forth a comparison of other income (expense), net for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2015 2014 $ % Other income (expense), net $ 381 $ (355 ) $ 736 N/A % Other income (expense) is comprised of interest income from invested cash, as well as interest expense and non-usage and other fees associated with our revolving credit agreement. Expenses in 2014 were comprised primarily of non-usage and other fees associated with a revolving debt agreement that terminated in August 2014, offset slightly by interest income from invested cash. In 2015, we had significantly higher invested cash balances than 2014 until we completed the NWS acquisition on November 16, 2015. Income Tax Provision The following table sets forth a comparison of our income tax provision for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2015 2014 $ % Income tax provision $ 43,555 $ 35,527 $ 8,028 23 % Effective income tax rate 40.2 % 37.6 % The effective income tax rates were different from the statutory United States federal income tax rate of 35% principally due to state income taxes, non-deductible share-based compensation expense, the qualified manufacturing activities deduction, disqualifying incentive stock option dispositions , non-deductible meals and entertainment costs and non-deductible transaction costs. A lower qualified manufacturing activities deduction and non-deductible transaction costs related to the NWS acquisition negatively impacted our 2015 effective tax rate. In the past few years a relatively high amount of excess tax benefits related to stock option exercises have resulted in a reduction in our qualified manufacturing activities deduction. The qualified manufacturing activities deduction can be limited to a certain level of taxable income on the tax return. Therefore, any significant items that reduce taxable income, such as excess tax benefits on stock options, can reduce the amount of the qualified manufacturing activities deduction. We experienced significant stock option exercise activity in 2015 and 2014 that generated excess tax benefits of $45.3 million and $19.4 million, respectively. 2014 Compared to 2013 Revenues Software licenses and royalties. The following table sets forth a comparison of our software licenses and royalties revenue for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2014 2013 $ % ESS $ 46,047 $ 38,774 $ 7,273 19 % ATSS 3,018 2,067 951 46 Total software licenses and royalties revenue $ 49,065 $ 40,841 $ 8,224 20 % Software license and royalties revenue growth was mainly due to a more active marketplace as the result of improvement in local government economic conditions, as well as our increasingly strong competitive position, which we attribute in part to our increased investments in product development over the past few years. An increase in the number of larger contracts, in particular in the courts and justice market, also contributed to the growth in license revenue. 31 Software license revenue was reduced so mewhat because of a growing number of clients choosing our subscription based options, rather than purchasing the software under a traditional perpetual software license arrangement. 138 new clients entered into subscription-based software arrangements in 2014 compared to 100 new clients in 2013. Subscriptions. The following table sets forth a comparison of our subscriptions revenue for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2014 2013 $ % ESS $ 84,322 $ 59,070 $ 25,252 43 % ATSS 3,526 2,794 732 26 Total subscriptions revenue $ 87,848 $ 61,864 $ 25,984 42 % Subscription-based services revenue increased 42% compared to 2013. E-filing services contributed approximately $13.3 million of the subscriptions revenue increase in 2014. Most of the e-filing revenue increase related to higher revenue from a contract with the Texas Office of Court Administration for our Odyssey File and Serve e-filing system for Texas courts (eFileTexas.gov) for civil court filings, which was implemented in September 2013. The state of Texas mandated all counties use eFileTexas.gov. This contract provided a recurring revenue stream that totaled $17.0 million in 2014. New SaaS clients as well as existing clients who converted to our SaaS model provided the remainder of the subscriptions revenue increase. In 2014, we added 138 new SaaS clients and 59 existing clients elected to convert to our SaaS model. Software services . The following table sets forth a comparison of our software services revenue for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2014 2013 $ % ESS $ 104,146 $ 85,459 $ 18,687 22 % ATSS 9,675 7,808 1,867 24 Total software services revenue $ 113,821 $ 93,267 $ 20,554 22 % Software services grew 22% in 2014 mainly due to much higher revenue from new proprietary software arrangements, slightly higher rates on certain services and additions to our professional services staff which increased our capacity to deliver backlog. Maintenance . The following table sets forth a comparison of our maintenance revenue for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2014 2013 $ % ESS $ 195,881 $ 175,180 $ 20,701 12 % ATSS 16,815 16,540 275 2 Total maintenance revenue $ 212,696 $ 191,720 $ 20,976 11 % Maintenance and support revenue increased mainly due to growth in our installed customer base from new software license sales as well as annual maintenance rate increases. Appraisal services . The following table sets forth a comparison of our appraisal services revenue for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2014 2013 $ % ESS $ $ $ % ATSS 21,802 20,825 977 5 Total appraisal services revenue $ 21,802 $ 20,825 $ 977 5 % 32 Appraisal services 2014 revenue benefitted by the mid-year addition of several new revaluation contracts in New York and the recent appraisal cycle in Indiana. Cost of Revenues and Gross Margins The following table sets forth a comparison of the key components of our cost of revenues for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2014 2013 $ % Software licenses and royalties $ 1,900 $ 2,377 $ (477 ) (20 ) % Acquired software 1,858 2,078 (220 ) (11 ) Software services, maintenance and subscriptions 236,363 199,617 36,746 18 Appraisal services 14,284 13,809 475 3 Hardware and other 5,325 5,559 (234 ) (4 ) Total cost of revenues $ 259,730 $ 223,440 $ 36,290 16 % The following table sets forth a comparison of gross margin percentage by revenue type for the years ended December 31: Gross margin percentage 2014 2013 Change Software licenses, royalties and acquired software 92.3 % 89.1 % 3.2 % Software services, maintenance and subscriptions 43.0 42.4 0.6 Appraisal services 34.5 33.7 0.8 Hardware and other 32.3 31.6 0.7 Overall gross margin 47.3 % 46.4 % 0.9 % Software licenses, royalties and acquired software . In 2014, our software licenses, royalties and acquired software gross margin percentage increased compared to 2013 mainly due to higher revenues from proprietary software revenues, which have a higher gross margin than third-party software. Software services, maintenance and subscription-based services . The software services, maintenance and subscriptions gross margin percentage increased mainly due to revenue from a contract with the Texas Office of Court Administration for eFileTexas.gov to manage e-filing of court documents. This contract began in September 2013, but we incurred initial startup costs in 2013 for which there were very limited related revenues. The addition of revenue from this contract since 2013 accounted for most of the gross margin increase. The gross margin increase was offset somewhat by costs related to accelerated hiring to ensure that we are well-positioned to deliver our current backlog and anticipated new business. Our implementation, development and support staff has increased in 2014 by 215 employees since 2013. Appraisal services . The appraisal services gross margin increased slightly compared to 2013. A high proportion of the costs of appraisal services revenue are variable, as we often hire temporary employees to assist in appraisal projects, whose term of employment generally ends with the projects completion. Our blended gross margin for 2014 increased 0.9% from 2013. The gross margin increase was mainly due to a revenue mix that included more software license revenue and subscription revenue and in particular, increased revenue from e-filing in Texas. This improvement in gross margin was offset somewhat by expenses associated with increased hiring of implementation, development and support staff in order to expand our capacity to implement our contract backlog. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses The following table sets forth a comparison of our SG&A expenses for the following years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2014 2013 $ % Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 108,260 $ 98,289 $ 9,971 10 % SG&A as a percentage of revenue was 22.0% in 2014 compared to 23.6% in 2013. Approximately one-third of the SG&A expense increase was from higher commission expense due to sales growth. Stock compensation expense contributed approximately one- 33 quarter of the increase primarily due to increases in our stock price. The remaining increase consisted of higher bonuses related to operating results, annual wage adjustments and increased travel expenses. Research and Development Expense The following table sets forth a comparison of our research and development expense for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2014 2013 $ % Research and development expense $ 25,743 $ 23,269 $ 2,474 11 % In 2014, research and development expense increased 11% compared to 2013 due to annual wage adjustments and increased staffing to maintain and enhance our competitive position. Amortization of Customer and Trade Name Intangibles The following table sets forth a comparison of amortization of customer and trade name intangibles for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2014 2013 $ % Amortization of customer and trade name intangibles $ 4,546 $ 4,517 $ 29 1 % In 2014, we completed one acquisition that increased amortizable customer and trade name intangibles by approximately $1.0 million. This amount is being amortized over a weighted average period of 12 years. Other The following table sets forth a comparison of other expense, net for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2014 2013 $ % Other expense, net $ (355 ) $ (1,309 ) $ 954 (73 ) % Other expense, net was primarily comprised of interest expense, non-usage and other fees associated with a revolving line of credit agreement that matured in August 2014, offset somewhat by interest income associated with invested cash balances. Interest expense declined compared to the prior year because we repaid all borrowings under the revolving credit agreement in early 2013, and had no debt outstanding during 2014. Income Tax Provision The following table sets forth a comparison of our income tax provision for the years ended December 31: Change ($ in thousands) 2014 2013 $ % Income tax provision $ 35,527 $ 26,718 $ 8,809 33 % Effective income tax rate 37.6 % 40.6 % The effective income tax rates were different from the statutory United States federal income tax rate of 35% due to state income taxes, non-deductible share-based compensation expense, the qualified manufacturing activities deduction, disqualifying incentive stock option dispositions and non-deductible meals and entertainment costs. The qualified manufacturing activities deduction increased in 2014, which contributed to a lower effective tax rate. We experienced significant stock option exercise activity in 2014 and 2013 that generated excess tax benefits of $19.4 million and $28.2 million, respectively. Excess tax benefits reduce tax payments but do not significantly reduce the effective tax rate and can result in limitations on other deductions. In 2013, limitations resulting from excess tax benefits eliminated the qualified manufacturing activities deduction, which negatively impacted our effective tax rate. 34 FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY As of December 31, 2015, we had cash and cash equivalents of $33.1 million compared to $206.2 million at December 31, 2014. We also had $30.9 million invested in investment grade corporate and municipal bonds as of December 31, 2015. These investments mature between 2016 and mid-2017 and we intend to hold these investments until maturity. Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on deposit with several domestic banks and money market funds. As of December 31, 2015, we had $66.0 million in outstanding borrowings and an outstanding letter of credit totaling $1.5 million in connection with one contract. We do not believe this letter of credit will be required to be drawn upon. This letter of credit expires in mid-2016. We believe our revolving line of credit, cash from operating activities, cash on hand and access to the credit markets provides us with sufficient flexibility to meet our long-term financial needs. The following table sets forth a summary of cash flows for the years ended December 31: ($ in thousands) 2015 2014 2013 Cash flows provided (used) by: Operating activities $ 89,013 $ 123,437 $ 66,090 Investing activities (398,459 ) (11,555 ) (25,658 ) Financing activities 136,366 15,409 32,038 Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents $ (173,080 ) $ 127,291 $ 72,470 Net cash provided by operating activities continues to be our primary source of funds to finance operating needs and capital expenditures. Other potential capital resources include cash on hand, public and private issuances of debt or equity securities, and bank borrowings. It is possible that our ability to access the capital and credit markets in the future may be limited by economic conditions or other factors. We currently believe that cash provided by operating activities, cash on hand and available credit are sufficient to fund our working capital requirements, capital expenditures, income tax obligations, and share repurchases for at least the next twelve months. In 2015, operating activities provided cash of $89.0 million. Operating activities that provided cash were primarily comprised of net income of $64.9 million, non-cash depreciation and amortization charges of $19.6 million and non-cash share-based compensation expense of $20.2 million. Cash provided by operating activities was negatively impacted in 2015 by tax payments that were $17.1 million higher than the prior year partly due to more taxable income and partly due to timing of stock option exercises and our ability to utilize related excess tax credits to determine estimated tax payments during the year. Our excess tax credit in 2015 was $45.3 million of which, over 70% was generated in the fourth quarter and as a result we recorded a $21.1 million income tax receivable at December 31, 2015. Accounts receivable also increased due to timing of annual maintenance and subscription billings due to growth in our customer base as well as normal maintenance billings of approximately $15.0 million associated with NWS. These negative impacts on operating cash were offset somewhat by growth in deferred maintenance revenue. In general, changes in the balance of deferred revenue are cyclical and primarily driven by the timing of our maintenance renewal billings. Our renewal dates occur throughout the year but our heaviest renewal cycles occur in the second and fourth quarters. In addition, deferred revenue included one unusually large customer deposit of $7.5 million at December 31, 2015. Days sales outstanding in accounts receivable were 100 days at December 31, 2015, compared to 80 days at December 31, 2014, mainly due to the impact on the DSO calculation of having approximately seven weeks of post-acquisition revenues from NWS but included all of their outstanding accounts receivable at December 31, 2015. DSOs are calculated based on accounts receivable (excluding long-term receivables, but including unbilled receivables) divided by the quotient of annualized quarterly revenues divided by 360 days. Excluding NWS, DSOs were 79 days at December 31, 2015. Investing activities used cash of $398.5 million in 2015 compared to $11.6 million in 2014. On November 16, 2015, we acquired all of the capital stock of NWS, which provides public safety and financial solutions for local governments. The purchase price, net of cash acquired of $22.5 million, was $337.5 million in cash, of which $4.0 million was accrued at December 31, 2015, and 2.1 million shares of Tyler common stock valued at $362.8 million. On May 29, 2015, we acquired all of the capital stock of Brazos Technology Corporation, which provides mobile hand held solutions primarily to law enforcement agencies for field accident reporting and electronically issuing citations. The purchase price, net of cash acquired and including debt assumed, was $6.1 million in cash and 12,500 shares of Tyler common stock valued at $1.5 million. On January 30, 2015, we made a $15.0 million investment in convertible preferred stock representing a 20% interest in Record Holdings Pty Limited. We also invested $30.9 million in investment grade corporate and municipal bonds maturing between 2016 and mid-2017. The remaining use of cash was for capital expenditures related to computer equipment, furniture and fixtures in support of internal growth, particularly with respect to growth in our cloud-based offerings. These expenditures were funded from cash generated from operations, cash on hand and bank borrowings. 35 In 2014, we completed the acquisition of SoftCode, Inc. for a purchase price of $3.5 million in cash, of which $325,000 was accrued at Decem ber 31, 2014, and 16,540 shares of Tyler common stock valued at $1.5 million. The remaining use of cash in 2014 was comprised primarily of capital expenditures related to computer equipment, furniture and fixtures in support of internal growth. Investing a ctivities in 2013 included $20.3 million paid in connection with the construction of an office building in Plano, Texas. Financing activities provided cash of $136.4 million in 2015 compared to $15.4 million in 2014. Financing activities were comprised of net borrowings of $66.0 million, collections of $27.8 million from stock option exercises and employee stock purchase plan activity and $45.3 million excess tax benefit from exercises of share-based arrangements. We purchased approximately 5,400 shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $645,000 in 2015 and paid $2.1 million in debt issuance costs. Financing activities in 2014 were comprised of collections of $18.8 million from stock option exercises and contributions from the employee stock purchase plan and $19.4 million excess tax benefit from exercises of share-based arrangements. These increases were offset somewhat by purchases of 294,000 shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $22.8 million. Financing activities in 2013 were comprised of collections of $21.8 million from stock option exercises and employee stock purchase plan activity and $28.2 million excess tax benefit from exercises of share-based arrangements, offset partially by $18.0 million in net payments on our revolving line of credit. The share repurchase program, which was approved by our board of directors, was announced in October 2002, and was amended at various times from 2003 through 2011. As of December 31, 2015, we had remaining authorization to repurchase up to 1.4 million additional shares of our common stock. Our share repurchase program allows us to repurchase shares at our discretion. Market conditions influence the timing of the buybacks and the number of shares repurchased, as well as the volume of employee stock option exercises. Share repurchases are generally funded using our existing cash balances and borrowings under our credit facility and may occur through open market purchases and transactions structured through investment banking institutions, privately negotiated transactions and/or other mechanisms. There is no expiration date specified for the authorization and we intend to repurchase stock under the plan from time to time. Subsequent to December 31, 2015 and through February 22, 2016, we purchased approximately 241,000 shares of our common stock for an aggregate cash purchase price of $31.3 million. On November 16, 2015 we entered into a $300.0 million Credit Agreement (the Credit Facility) with various lenders party thereto and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent. The Credit Facility provides for a revolving credit line of $300.0 million with a $10.0 million sublimit for letters of credit. The Credit Facility matures on November 16, 2020. Borrowings under the Credit Facility may be used for general corporate purposes, including working capital requirements, acquisitions and share repurchases. In 2015, we paid $2.1 million in related debt issuance costs, which are included with other assets on the accompanying balance sheet. Borrowings under the Credit Facility bear interest at a rate of either (1) the Wells Fargo Bank prime rate (subject to certain higher rate determinations) plus a margin of 0.25% to 1.00% or (2) the 30, 60, 90 or 180-day LIBOR rate plus a margin of 1.25% to 2.00%. In 2015, our effective average interest rate for borrowings was 1.8%. As of December 31, 2015 our interest rate was 1.6%. The Credit Facility is secured by substantially all of our assets. The Credit Facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios and other financial conditions and prohibits us from making certain investments, advances, cash dividends or loans, and limits incurrence of additional indebtedness and liens. As of December 31, 2015, we were in compliance with those covenants. At December 31, 2015, we had $66.0 million in outstanding borrowings and unused borrowing capacity of $234.0 million under the Credit Facility. We paid income taxes, net of refunds received, of $27.3 million in 2015, $10.2 million in 2014, and $9.3 million in 2013. We experienced significant stock option exercise activity in 2015 that generated $45.3 million excess tax benefits. Excess tax benefits reduce tax payments but do not significantly reduce the effective tax rate and can result in limitations on other deductions. However, more than 70% of our 2015 excess tax benefit was generated in the fourth quarter of 2015 and as a result we recorded an income tax receivable of $21.1 million, which will reduce income tax payments in 2016. In 2014 and 2013, excess tax benefits were $19.4 million and $28.2 million, respectively. Excluding acquisitions, we anticipate that 2016 capital spending will be between $31.0 million and $33.0 million. We expect the majority of this capital spending will consist of computer equipment and software for infrastructure replacements and expansion. We also expect to purchase a leased office building in Falmouth, Maine for approximately $10.0 million. We currently do not expect to capitalize significant amounts related to software development in 2016, but the actual amount and timing of those costs, and whether they are capitalized or expensed may result in additional capitalized software development. Capital spending is expected to be funded from existing cash balances, cash flows from operations and borrowings under our revolving line of credit. 36 From time to time we engage in discussions with potential acquisition candidates. In order to pursue such opportunities, which could require signifi cant commitments of capital, we may be required to incur debt or to issue additional potentially dilutive securities in the future. No assurance can be given as to our future acquisition opportunities and how such opportunities will be financed. We lease office facilities, as well as transportation, computer and other equipment used in our operations under non-cancelable operating lease agreements expiring at various dates through 2022. Most leases contain renewal options and some contain purchase options. Summarized in the table below are our obligations to make future payments under our Credit Facility and lease obligations at December 31, 2015 (in thousands): 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Thereafter Total Revolving line of credit $ $ $ $ $ 66,000 $ $ 66,000 Lease obligations 5,912 6,250 3,845 3,204 3,050 2,223 24,484 Total future payment obligations $ 5,912 $ 6,250 $ 3,845 $ 3,204 $ 69,050 $ 2,223 $ 90,484 As of December 31, 2015, we do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, guarantees to third-parties or material purchase commitments, except for the operating lease commitments listed above. CAPITALIZATION At December 31, 2015, our capitalization consisted of $66.0 million of outstanding borrowings and $858.9 million of shareholders equity.