ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes and other financial information included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our audited consolidated financial statements included in our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition to historical consolidated financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates, and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. You should review the sections titled Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements for a discussion of forward-looking statements and Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors for a discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview We are a technology platform that uses a massive network, leading technology, operational excellence and product expertise to power movement from point A to point B. We develop and operate proprietary technology applications supporting a variety of offerings on our platform. We connect consumers with providers of ride services, restaurants and food delivery services, public transportation networks, e-bikes, e-scooters and other personal mobility options. We use this same network, technology, operational excellence and product expertise to connect shippers with carriers in the freight industry. We are also developing technologies that provide autonomous driving vehicle solutions to consumers, networks of vertical take-off and landing vehicles and new solutions to solve everyday problems. COVID-19 In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of COVID-19 a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has rapidly changed market and economic conditions globally, impacting Drivers, Delivery People, restaurants, consumers and business partners, as well as our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows . Various governmental restrictions, including the declaration of a federal National Emergency, multiple cities and states declarations of states of emergency, school and business closings, quarantines, shelter at home orders, restrictions on travel, limitations on social or public gatherings, and other social distancing measures have, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on our business and operations, including, for example, by reducing the demand for our Rides and New Mobility offerings globally and disrupting the supply chain related to our New Mobility offerings. The significant adverse changes in the economic and market conditions resulting from COVID19 triggered the recognition of pretax impairment charges of $2.1 billion in the first quarter of 2020. For additional information on impairment charges, refer to Note 3 Investments and Fair Value Measurement and Note 6 Goodwill and Intangible Assets in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q . COVID-19 Response Initiatives We continue to prioritize the health and safety of our consumers, Drivers and Restaurants and the communities we serve. As one of the worlds largest platforms for work, we continue to believe that we will play an important role in the economic recovery of cities around the globe. We are focused on navigating the challenges presented by COVID-19 through preserving our liquidity and managing our cash flow through taking preemptive action to enhance our ability to meet our short-term liquidity needs. The pandemic has reduced the demand for our Rides offering globally and has disrupted the supply chain related to or New Mobility offerings. We have responded to the COVID-19 pandemic by launching new, or expanding existing, services or features on an expedited basis, particularly those related to delivery of food and other goods. To comply with social distancing guidelines of national, state and local governments, we have temporarily suspended UberPOOL, our shared Rides offering, globally and implemented leave at door delivery options for Uber Eats. Additionally, we have asked that all employees who are able to do so work remotely. In addition, to support those whose earning opportunities have been depressed as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as communities hit hard during this unprecedented period, we announced and implemented several initiatives during the first quarter of 2020, including a financial assistance program for Drivers who are impacted by the pandemic, personal protective equipment disbursement and a commitment to provide 10 million free rides and food deliveries to healthcare workers, seniors, and others in need. These programs reduced our revenue for the first quarter of 2020 by $19 million and we expect them to also impact our financial position in future quarters. While we continue to assess the impact from the COVID-19 outbreak, we are unable to accurately predict the full impact of COVID-19 on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows due to numerous uncertainties, including the severity of the disease, the duration of the outbreak, additional actions that may be taken by governmental authorities, the further impact on the business of Drivers, Restaurants, consumers, and business partners, and other factors identified in Part II, Item 1A Risk Factors in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 42 Financial and Operational Highlights Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2019 2020 % Change % Change (Constant Currency (1) ) Monthly Active Platform Consumers (MAPCs) (2) 93 103 11 % Trips (2) 1,550 1,658 7 % Gross Bookings (2) $ 14,649 $ 15,776 8 % 10 % Revenue $ 3,099 $ 3,543 14 % 16 % Adjusted Net Revenue (1), (2) $ 2,761 $ 3,256 18 % 19 % Net loss attributable to Uber Technologies, Inc. (3) $ (1,012 ) $ (2,936 ) (190 )% Rides Adjusted EBITDA $ 192 $ 581 203 % Adjusted EBITDA (1), (2) $ (869 ) $ (612 ) 30 % (1) See the section titled Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures for more information and reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. (2) See the section titled Certain Key Metrics and Non-GAAP Financial Measures for more information. (3) D uring the three months ended March 31, 2019 , net loss attributable to Uber Technologies, Inc. includes stock-based compensation expense of $11 million . During the three months ended March 31, 2020 , net loss attributable to Uber Technologies, Inc. includes pre-tax impairment charges of $2.1 billion and stock-based compensation expense of $277 million , partially offset by a pre-tax gain on business divestiture of our Uber Eats India operations of $154 million . Highlights for the First Quarter 2020 : In the first quarter of 2020 , we had 103 million monthly active platform consumers, or 11% growth compared to the same period in 2019 . Our consumer loyalty programs have continued to gain traction, growing to more than 31 million global subscribers, with recent rollout in France, our 6th country in addition to the U.S., Brazil, Mexico, Australia, and New Zealand. Gross Bookings grew to $15.8 billion , or 10% , on a constant currency basis, compared to the same period in 2019 , with the first two months of the quarter showing continued strength, followed by the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic in March as Rides Gross Bookings saw a 39% decline , on a constant currency basis, compared to the same period in 2019 . Revenue and Adjusted Net Revenue grew to $3.5 billion and $3.3 billion , respectively, and we ended the first quarter of 2020 with a Take Rate of 20.6%, up 1.8% , compared to the same period in 2019 . Eats Gross Bookings remained relatively strong, growing 54% , on a constant currency basis, compared to the same period in 2019 , and outpacing Eats Trip growth, as we saw a mix-shift to small and medium size restaurants resulting in a 17% increase in basket-sizes globally. Rides Adjusted EBITDA grew $389 million to $581 million , with Rides Adjusted EBITDA margin as a percentage of Rides revenue improving to 23.5% from 7.9% , compared to the same period in 2019 and Rides Adjusted EBITDA margin as a percentage of Rides ANR improving to 23.5% from 8.1%, compared to the same period in 2019 . Rides Adjusted EBITDA margins improved despite the Rides Gross Bookings decline of 39% in the month of March, on a constant currency basis, compared to the same period in 2019 . We ended the first quarter of 2020 with $9.0 billion in unrestricted cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments. Recent Developments On January 2, 2020, we completed the acquisition of substantially all of the assets of Careem. Dubai-based Careem was founded in 2012, and provides primarily ridesharing and, to a lesser extent, meal delivery, and payments services to millions of users in cities across the Middle East, North Africa, and Pakistan. For additional information, see Note 16 Business Combination to our condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. On January 21, 2020, we entered into a definitive agreement and completed the divestiture of Ubers food delivery operations in India (Uber Eats India) to Zomato Media Private Limited (Zomato) in exchange for (i) compulsorily convertible cumulative preference shares of Zomato representing, when converted, 9.99% of the total voting capital of Zomato and (ii) a non-interest bearing note receivable to be repaid over the course of four years for reimbursement by Zomato of goods and services tax. For add itional information, see Note 17 Divestitures to our condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 43 On May 4, 2020, we announced that we would discontinue Uber Eats operations in the Czech Republic, Egypt, Honduras, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Uruguay and Ukraine by June 4, 2020. Separately, we announced that we would transfer Uber Eats business operations in the United Arab Emirates to Careem, our wholly-owned subsidiary operating primarily in the Middle East. The discontinued and transferred markets represented 1% of Eats Gross Bookings and 4% of Eats Adjusted EBITDA losses d uring the three months ended March 31, 2020 . For additional information, see Note 18 Subsequent Events to our condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. On May 6, 2020, we announced plans to reduce our operating expenses in response to the economic challenges and uncertainty resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on our business. We announced a reduction to our customer support and recruiting teams by approximately 3,700 full-time employee roles. For additional information, see Note 18 Subsequent Events to our condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. On May 7, 2020, we entered into a series of transactions and agreements with Neutron Holdings, Inc. dba Lime (Lime) including (i) the divestiture of certain assets of our dockless e-bikes and e-scooters business and operations operated as JUMP, which is included in our New Mobility offering, in exchange for common stock in Lime representing approximately 16% of the fully-diluted capitalization of Lime, (ii) an $85 million investment in Lime in the form of a secured convertible note which shall be convertible at any time, at our election, into senior preferred stock of Lime, and (iii) a commercial collaboration agreement. For additional information, see Note 18 Subsequent Events to our condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Legal and Regulatory Developments California State Assembly Bill 5 (AB5) AB5 is a recently enacted statute that codifies a test to determine whether a worker is an employee under California law. The test is referred to as the ABC test, and was originally handed down by the California Supreme Court in Dynamex Operations v. Superior Court in 2018. Under the ABC test, workers performing services for a hiring entity are considered employees unless the hiring entity can demonstrate three things: the worker (A) is free from the hiring entitys control, (B) performs work that is outside the usual course of the hiring entitys business, and (C) customarily engages in the independent trade, work or type of business performed for the hiring entity. AB5 went into effect in January 2020. AB5 provides a mechanism for determining whether workers of a hiring entity are employees or independent contractors, but the new law does not result in any immediate change in how workers are classified. If the State of California, cities or municipalities, or workers disagree with how a hiring entity classifies workers, AB5 sets forth the test for evaluating their classification. A similar ABC test was adopted more than 10 years ago in Massachusetts. We continue to evaluate the impact of AB5 on our business, have made business changes in certain jurisdictions, and are considering legal responses, additional potential business changes, a potential legislative amendment and have filed a California state ballot initiative which will be voted on in November 2020. The ballot initiative does not ask for exemption from AB5, although many other industries in California received an exemption from the ABC test through special amendments. Instead, we are working to provide voters with an opportunity to support a framework that advocates for legal certainty regarding the status of independent work, and seeks to protect worker flexibility and the quality of on-demand work, while establishing the following: a guaranteed minimum earnings standard for Drivers; occupational/accident insurance for injury protection; healthcare subsidies; and protection against discrimination and harassment. As we explore legal options, we have received and expect to continue to receive claims by or on behalf of Drivers that claim that the Drivers have been misclassified. On May 5, 2020,the California Attorney General, in conjunction with the city attorneys for San Francisco, Los Angeles and San Diego, filed a complaint in SF Superior Court against Uber and Lyft. The complaint alleges drivers are misclassified, and seeks an injunction and monetary damages related to the alleged competitive advantage caused by the alleged misclassification of drivers. The Company intends to defend itself vigorously with regard to these actions. For a discussion of risk factors related to AB5, including how AB5 may impact our business, result of operations, financial position and operating condition, see the risk factor titled -Our business would be adversely affected if Drivers were classified as employees in the section titled Risk Factors included in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 44 Components of Results of Operations Revenue We generate substantially all of our revenue from fees paid by Drivers and Restaurants for use of our platform. We have concluded that we are an agent in these arrangements as we arrange for other parties to provide the service to the end-user. Under this model, revenue is net of Driver and Restaurant earnings and Driver incentives. We act as an agent in these transactions by connecting consumers to Drivers and Restaurants to facilitate a Trip or meal delivery service. During the first quarter of 2020, we began charging end-users a fee for services in certain markets. In these transactions, we enter into a Master Services Agreements (MSA) with the end-user to use the platform for a fee. The combination of the MSA and the individual transaction request establishes enforceable rights and obligations for each transaction. We have determined that in these transactions, the end-user is our customer. For additional discussion related to our revenue, see the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates - Revenue Recognition, Note 1 - Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - Revenue Recognition, and Note 2 - Revenue to our audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 and Note 1 Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in this Quarterly Report in Form 10-Q. Cost of Revenue, Exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization Cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, consists primarily of insurance costs , credit card processing fees, hosting and co-located data center expenses, mobile device and service expenses, amounts related to fare chargebacks and other credit card losses, excess Driver incentives, costs incurred for certain Eats transactions where we are primarily responsible for delivery services and pay Delivery People for services provided, and costs incurred with carriers for Freight transportation. Insurance expenses include coverage for auto liability, general liability, uninsured and underinsured motorist liability, and auto physical damage related to our Rides products and Eats offering. Excess Driver incentives are primarily related to our Rides products in emerging markets and our Eats offering. We expect that cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, will fluctuate on an absolute dollar basis for the foreseeable future in line with Trip volume changes on the platform. As Trips increase or decrease, we expect related changes for insurance costs, credit card processing fees, hosting and co-located data center expenses, and other cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization. Operations and Support Operations and support expenses consist primarily of compensation expenses, including stock-based compensation to employees who support operations in cities, Driver operations employees, community management employees, and platform user support representatives, as well as costs for allocated overhead and those associated with Driver background checks. We expect that operations and support expenses will decrease on an absolute dollar basis as we take mitigating actions in relation to the decline in Trip volume in our Rides business due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. As our Rides Trip volume increases as COVID-19 impacts subside, we would expect operations and support expenses to increase on an absolute dollar basis, but decrease as a percentage of revenue as we become more efficient in supporting platform users. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of compensation expenses, including stock-based compensation to sales and marketing employees, advertising expenses, expenses related to consumer acquisition and retention, including consumer discounts, rider facing loyalty programs, promotions, refunds, and credits, Driver referrals, and allocated overhead. We expense advertising and other promotional expenditures as incurred. We expect that sales and marketing expenses will decrease on an absolute dollar basis as we take mitigating actions in relation to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. After COVID-19 impacts subside, we would anticipate sales and marketing expenses to increase on an absolute dollar basis but vary from period to period as a percentage of revenue due to timing of marketing campaigns. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of compensation expenses for engineering, product development, and design employees, including stock-based compensation, expenses associated with ongoing improvements to, and maintenance of, our platform offerings, and ATG and Other Technology Programs development expenses, as well as allocated overhead. We expense substantially all research and development expenses as incurred. We expect that research and development expenses will decrease on an absolute dollar basis in the near-term due to mitigating actions relating to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. After COVID-19 impacts subside, we expect research and development 45 expenses to increase and vary from period to period as a percentage of revenue as we continue to invest in research and development activities relating to ongoing improvements to and maintenance of our platform offerings, as well as ATG and Other Technology Programs, and other research and development programs. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation expenses, including stock-based compensation, for executive management and administrative employees, including finance and accounting, human resources, and legal, as well as facilities and general corporate, and director and officer insurance expenses. General and administrative expenses also include legal settlements. We expect that general and administrative expenses will decrease on an absolute dollar basis as we execute on mitigating actions relating to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. After COVID-19 impacts subside, we would expect that general and administrative expenses would increase on an absolute dollar basis, but decrease as a percentage of revenue as we find efficiencies in our internal support functions. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization consists of all depreciation and amortization expenses associated with our property and equipment and acquired intangible assets. Depreciation includes expenses associated with buildings, site improvements, computer and network equipment, leased vehicles, furniture, fixtures, and dockless e-bikes, as well as leasehold improvements. Amortization includes expenses associated with our capitalized internal-use software and acquired intangible assets. We expect that depreciation and amortization expenses will decrease on an absolute dollar basis in the near term related to deferring certain capital expenditures due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. After COVID-19 impacts subside , we would anticipate depreciation and amortization expenses to increase as we continue to build out our network infrastructure and building locations. Interest Expense Interest expense consists primarily of interest expense associated with our outstanding debt, including accretion of debt discount. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net primarily includes the following items: Interest income , which consists primarily of interest earned on our cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents. Foreign currency exchange gains (losses), net , which consist primarily of remeasurement of transactions and monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency at the end of the period. Gain on business divestiture . Unrealized gain (loss) on debt and equity securities, net , which consists primarily of gains (losses) from fair value adjustments relating to our non-marketable securities. Impairment of debt and equity securities . Change in fair value of embedded derivatives , which consists primarily of gains and losses on embedded derivatives related to our Convertible Notes until their extinguishment in connection with our IPO. Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the United States and foreign jurisdictions in which we do business. These foreign jurisdictions have different statutory tax rates than those in the United States. Additionally, certain of our foreign earnings may also be taxable in the United States. Accordingly, our effective tax rate will vary depending on the relative proportion of foreign to domestic income, use of foreign tax credits, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets, and liabilities and changes in tax laws. Equity Method Investment, Net of Tax Equity method investment, net of tax primarily includes the results of our share of income or loss from our Yandex.Taxi joint venture. 46 Results of Operations The following table summarizes our condensed consolidated statements of operations for each of the periods presented (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2020 Revenue $ 3,099 $ 3,543 Costs and expenses: Cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below 1,681 1,786 Operations and support 434 503 Sales and marketing 1,040 885 Research and development 409 645 General and administrative 423 859 Depreciation and amortization 146 128 Total costs and expenses 4,133 4,806 Loss from operations (1,034 ) (1,263 ) Interest expense (217 ) (118 ) Other income (expense), net 260 (1,795 ) Loss before income taxes and loss from equity method investment (991 ) (3,176 ) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 19 (242 ) Loss from equity method investments, net of tax (6 ) (12 ) Net loss including non-controlling interests (1,016 ) (2,946 ) Less: net loss attributable to non-controlling interests, net of tax (4 ) (10 ) Net loss attributable to Uber Technologies, Inc. $ (1,012 ) $ (2,936 ) The following table sets forth the components of our condensed consolidated statements of operations for each of the periods presented as a percentage of revenue (1) : Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2020 Revenue 100 % 100 % Costs and expenses: Cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below 54 % 50 % Operations and support 14 % 14 % Sales and marketing 34 % 25 % Research and development 13 % 18 % General and administrative 14 % 24 % Depreciation and amortization 5 % 4 % Total costs and expenses 133 % 136 % Loss from operations (33 )% (36 )% Interest expense (7 )% (3 )% Other income (expense), net 8 % (51 )% Loss before income taxes and loss from equity method investment (32 )% (90 )% Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 1 % (7 )% Loss from equity method investment, net of tax % % Net loss including non-controlling interests (33 )% (83 )% Less: net loss attributable to non-controlling interests, net of tax % % Net loss attributable to Uber Technologies, Inc. (33 )% (83 )% 47 (1) Totals of percentage of revenues may not foot due to rounding. The following discussion and analysis is for the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to same period in 2019 . Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2019 2020 % Change Rides $ 2,418 $ 2,470 2 % Eats 536 819 53 % Freight 127 199 57 % Other Bets 18 30 66 % ATG and Other Technology Programs (1) 25 ** Total revenue $ 3,099 $ 3,543 14 % (1) Consists of $25 million collaboration revenue from Toyota recognized in the first quarter of 2020 . For additional information, see Note 15 Non-Controlling Interests to our condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. ** Percentage not meaningful. Revenue increased $444 million , or 14% , primarily attributable to an increase in Gross Bookings of 10% , on a constant currency basis. The increase in Gross Bookings was primarily driven by Eats Gross Bookings growth of 54% year-over-year, on a constant currency basis, due to continued expansion across our international markets, as well as an increase in demand from stay-at-home orders combined with an increase in basket-sizes as a result of restaurant mix. Overall, Gross Bookings were adversely impacted by COVID-19, with Rides Gross Bookings declining 3% in the first quarter of 2020, on a constant currency basis. Additionally, in the first quarter of 2020 , we also recognized $25 million in revenue related to our t hree-year joint collaboration agreement with Toyota and DENSO . Cost of Revenue, Exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2019 2020 % Change Cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization $ 1,681 $ 1,786 6 % Percentage of revenue 54 % 50 % Cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, increased $105 million , or 6% , mainly due to a $124 million increase in Freight carrier payments and Eats delivery people payments in certain markets, combined with a $22 million increase in network expense. These increases were partially offset by a $60 million decrease in insurance expense primarily due to a decrease in miles in our Rides business. Additionally, Excess Driver incentives decreased $8 million in the first quarter of 2020 compared to the same period in 2019. Operations and Support Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2019 2020 % Change Operations and support $ 434 $ 503 16 % Percentage of revenue 14 % 14 % Operations and support expenses increased $69 million , or 16% , primarily attributable to a $45 million increase in employee headcount costs and a $24 million increase in stock-based compensation expense. 48 Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2019 2020 % Change Sales and marketing $ 1,040 $ 885 (15 )% Percentage of revenue 34 % 25 % Sales and marketing expenses decreased $155 million , or 15% , primarily attributable to an $86 million decrease in consumer advertising and other marketing programs, as well as a $78 million decrease in consumer discounts, rider facing loyalty expense, credits and refunds. These were partially offset by an $18 million increase in employee headcount costs and a $13 million increase in stock-based compensation expense. Consumer discounts, rider facing loyalty expense, promotions, credits and refunds decreased $78 million in the first quarter of 2020 to $510 million compared to $588 million in the same period in 2019 . Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2019 2020 % Change Research and development $ 409 $ 645 58 % Percentage of revenue 13 % 18 % Research and development expenses increased $236 million , or 58% , primarily attributable to a $164 million increase in stock-based compensation expense and a $79 million increase in employee headcount costs. General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2019 2020 % Change General and administrative $ 423 $ 859 103 % Percentage of revenue 14 % 24 % General and administrative expenses increased $436 million , or 103% , primarily attributable to $193 million in impairment charges related to our New Mobility reporting unit (within our Other Bets segment) recorded during the first quarter of 2020 primarily related to COVID-19 impacts on certain markets , a $65 million increase in stock-based compensation expense, a $51 million increase in employee headcount costs, as well as a net $19 million increase in l egal, tax, and regulatory reserve changes and settlements. Depreciation and Amortization Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2019 2020 % Change Depreciation and amortization $ 146 $ 128 (12 )% Percentage of revenue 5 % 4 % Depreciation and amortization expenses decreased $18 million , or 12% , primarily attributable to fully depreciated owned servers, including the decommissioned servers in the first quarter of 2019, and other computer equipment assets partially offset by an increase in leased server depreciation and additional amortization expenses related to intangible assets acquired during the current quarter from the Careem acquisition. 49 Interest Expense Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2019 2020 % Change Interest expense $ (217 ) $ (118 ) (46 )% Percentage of revenue (7 )% (3 )% Interest expense decreased by $99 million , or 46% , primarily due to the conversion of our 2021 Convertible Notes and the 2022 Convertible Notes upon our IPO in May 2019. Other Income (Expense), Net Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2019 2020 % Change Interest income $ 44 $ 38 (14 )% Foreign currency exchange gains (losses), net (1 ) (28 ) ** Gain on business divestiture 154 ** Unrealized gain (loss) on debt and equity securities, net 16 (114 ) ** Impairment of debt and equity securities (1,863 ) ** Change in fair value of embedded derivatives 175 (100 )% Other 26 18 (31 )% Other income (expense), net $ 260 $ (1,795 ) ** Percentage of revenue 8 % (51 )% ** Percentage not meaningful. Interest income decreased by $6 million , or 14% , primarily due to lower interest income earned on investments. Foreign currency exchange gains (losses), net increased by $27 million due to unrealized impacts on foreign exchange resulting from remeasurement of our foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of an entity . Gain on business divestiture was $154 million primarily due to the gain on the sale of our Uber Eats India operations to Zomato during the first quarter of 2020. Unrealized gain (loss) on debt and equity securities, net decreased by $130 million compared to the first quarter of 2019, primarily due to loss from fair value adjustments of our non-marketable securities recorded under the fair value option . Impairment of debt and equity securities increased by $1.9 billion primarily due to impairment of our investment in Didi and the credit loss allowance recorded on our investment in Grab . For additional information, refer to Note 3 Investments and Fair Value Measurement in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q . Change in fair value of embedded derivatives decreased by $175 million , or 100% , as a result of settlement of convertible debts in the second quarter of 2019 upon the completion of our IPO. There were no embedded derivatives outstanding during the first quarter of 2020. Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2019 2020 % Change Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 19 $ (242 ) ** Effective tax rate (2 )% 8 % Income tax expense decreased by $261 million primarily due to a tax impact from the impairment charges of our investments in Didi and Grab. Loss from Equity Method Investment, Net of Tax 50 Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2019 2020 % Change Loss from equity method investments, net of tax $ (6 ) $ (12 ) (100 )% Percentage of revenue % % Loss from equity method investment, net of tax increased by $6 million , or 100% , due to an increase in our portion of the net loss from our Yandex.Taxi joint venture. Segment Results of Operations We operate our business as five operating and reportable segments: Rides, Eats, Freight, Other Bets, and ATG and Other Technology Programs. For additional information about our segments , see Note 12 Segment Information and Geographic Information in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Adjusted Net Revenue (1) Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2019 2020 % Change Rides $ 2,377 $ 2,475 4 % Eats 239 527 121 % Freight 127 199 57 % Other Bets 18 30 66 % ATG and Other Technology Programs collaboration revenue (2) 25 ** Adjusted Net Revenue $ 2,761 $ 3,256 18 % (1) Adjusted Net Revenue for Rides and Eats are non-GAAP measures as defined by the SEC. Adjusted Net Revenue for Freight, Other Bets and ATG and Other Technology Programs are equal to GAAP revenue in all periods presented. In 2020, Adjusted Net Revenue does not include certain COVID-19 response initiatives. See the section titled Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures for more information and reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. (2) Consists of $25 million collaboration revenue from Toyota recognized in the first quarter of 2020 . Refer to Note 15 Non-Controlling Interests of Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further information on collaboration revenue. ** Percentage not meaningful. Segment Adjusted EBITDA Segment Adjusted EBITDA is defined as revenue less the following expenses: cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, operations and support, sales and marketing, and general and administrative and research and development expenses associated with our segments. Segment adjusted EBITDA also excludes any non-cash items, certain transactions that are not indicative of ongoing segment operating performance and / or items that management does not believe are reflective of our ongoing core operations. For additional information, see Note 12 Segment Information and Geographic Information to our condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2019 2020 % Change Rides $ 192 $ 581 203 % Eats (309 ) (313 ) (1 )% Freight (29 ) (64 ) (121 )% Other Bets (42 ) (63 ) (50 )% ATG and Other Technology Programs (113 ) (108 ) 4 % Corporate G&A and Platform R&D (1), (2) (568 ) (645 ) (14 )% Adjusted EBITDA (3) $ (869 ) $ (612 ) 30 % (1 ) Excluding stock-based compensation expense. 51 (2) Includes costs that are not directly attributable to our reportable segments. Corporate G&A also includes certain shared costs such as finance, accounting, tax, human resources, information technology and legal costs. Platform R&D also includes mapping and payment technologies and support and development of the internal technology infrastructure. Our allocation methodology is periodically evaluated and may change. (3) See the section titled Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures for more information and reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. Rides Segment For the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019 , Rides adjusted net revenue increased $98 million , or 4% , and Rides adjusted EBITDA profit increased $389 million , or 203% . Rides adjusted net revenue increased primarily attributable to a decrease in incentive spend partially offsetting a decrease in Rides Gross Bookings due to adverse impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic in March. Rides Take Rate improved to 22.8% from 20.8% compared to the same period in 2019 mainly driven by a decrease in incentive spend. Rides adjusted EB ITDA profit increased primarily attributable to a $142 million decrease in consumer promotions and a $78 million decrease in insurance expense as a result of a decrease in miles driven, combined with an increase in Rides adjusted net revenue. Additionally, Rides adjusted EBITDA margin as a percentage of Rides revenue improved to 23.5% from 7.9% , compared to the same period in 2019, and Rides adjusted EBITDA margin as a percentage of Rides adjusted net revenue improved to 23.5% from 8.1% in the same period in 2019. Eats Segment For the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019 , Eats adjusted net revenue increased $288 million , or 121% , and Eats adjusted EBITDA loss increased $4 million , or ( 1% ). Eats adjusted net revenue increased primarily attributable to an increase in Gross Bookings of 54% , on a constant currency basis, primarily driven by continued expansion across our international markets combined with a mix-shift to small and medium size restaurants driving higher basket-sizes in the U.S. Eats Take Rate improved to 11.3% from 7.8% compared to the same period in 2019 driven by a decrease in incentive spend combined with Delivery People payment efficiencies mainly in the U.S. Eats adjusted EBITDA loss increased primarily attributable to a $131 million increase in cost of revenue combined with an $82 million increase in consumer promotions and an $18 million increase in employee headcount costs, partially offset by an increase in Eats adjusted net revenue. Freight Segment For the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019 , Freight revenue increased $72 million , or 57% , and Freight adjusted EBITDA loss increased $35 million , or ( 121% ). Freight revenue increased primarily attributable to a 191% growth in the number of shippers and carriers on the network combined with a 55% increase in volumes with our top shippers. Freight adjusted EBITDA loss increased attributable to an increase in investment spend in our technology and services as we continue to grow the business. Other Bets Segment For the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019 , Other Bets revenue increased $12 million , or 66% , and Other Bets adjusted EBITDA loss increased $21 million , or ( 50% ). Other Bets revenue increased as we continued to expand the reach of our New Mobility offerings, however, due to the impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic in March, our operations were paused across certain markets. Other Bets adjusted EBITDA loss increased attributable to an increase in investment spend in our New Mobility offerings as we continue to launch in new cities. ATG and Other Technology Programs Segment For the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019 , ATG and Other Technology Programs revenue increased $25 million and ATG and Other Technology Programs adjusted EBITDA loss decreased $5 million , or 4% . ATG and Other Technology Programs revenue increased attributable to collaboration revenue related to our t hree-year joint collaboration agreement with Toyota and DENSO entered into in July 2019. ATG and Other Technology Programs adjusted EBITDA loss decreased due to an increase in revenue, as noted above, partially offset by an increase in operational expenses. 52 Certain Key Metrics and Non-GAAP Financial Measures Adjusted Net Revenue, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin as a percentage of Adjusted Net Revenue, as well as revenue and ANR growth rates in constant currency, are non-GAAP financial measures. For more information about how we use these non-GAAP financial measures in our business, the limitations of these measures, and reconciliations of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, see the section titled Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures. Monthly Active Platform Consumers. MAPCs is the number of unique consumers who completed a Rides or New Mobility ride or received an Eats meal on our platform at least once in a given month, averaged over each month in the quarter. While a unique consumer can use multiple product offerings on our platform in a given month, that unique consumer is counted as only one MAPC. We use MAPCs to assess the adoption of our platform and frequency of transactions, which are key factors in our penetration of the countries in which we operate. Trips. We define Trips as the number of completed consumer Rides or New Mobility rides and Eats meal deliveries in a given period. For example, an UberPOOL ride with three paying consumers represents three unique Trips, whereas an UberX ride with three passengers represents one Trip. We believe that Trips are a useful metric to measure the scale and usage of our platform. Gross Bookings. We define Gross Bookings as the total dollar value, including any applicable taxes, tolls, and fees, of Rides and New Mobility rides, Eats meal deliveries, and amounts paid by Freight shippers, in each case without any adjustment for consumer discounts and refunds, Driver and Restaurant earnings, and Driver incentives. Gross Bookings do not include tips earned by Drivers. Gross Bookings are an indication of the scale of our current platform, which ultimately impacts revenue. 53 Q2 2018 Q3 2018 Q4 2018 Q1 2019 Q2 2019 Q3 2019 Q4 2019 Q1 2020 Rides $ 10,166 $ 10,488 $ 11,479 $ 11,446 $ 12,188 $ 12,554 $ 13,512 $ 10,874 Eats 1,774 2,111 2,561 3,071 3,386 3,658 4,374 4,683 Freight 70 123 126 128 167 223 219 198 Other Bets 2 3 3 4 15 30 26 21 ATG & Other Technology Programs Adjusted Net Revenue. See the section titled Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures for our definition and a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2019 2020 % Change Adjusted Net Revenue $ 2,761 $ 3,256 18 % Take Rate is defined as Adjusted Net Revenue as a percentage of Gross Bookings. Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 Adjusted Net Revenue increased $495 million , or 18% , primarily attributable to Gross Bookings growth of 10% , on a constant currency basis, combined with a decrease in incentive spend across Rides and Eats. Overall Take Rate was 20.6% , up 1.8% , from the same period in 2019, mainly due to lower Rides incentive spend in the U.S. and Canada. Adjusted EBITDA. See the section titled Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures for our definition and a reconciliation of net loss attributable to Uber Technologies, Inc. to Adjusted EBITDA. Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2019 2020 % Change Adjusted EBITDA $ (869 ) $ (612 ) 30 % Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 Adjusted EBITDA loss decreased $257 million , or 30% , primarily attributable to a $389 million increase in Rides Adjusted EBITDA, partially offset by continued investments in our non-Rides offerings and an increase in corporate overhead as we grow the business. Additionally, our Adjusted EBITDA margin as a percentage of Adjusted Net Revenue improved to (18.8)% compared to the same period in 2019 at (31.5)% driven by our focus to drive growth with operational efficiency. 54 Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures We collect and analyze operating and financial data to evaluate the health of our business and assess our performance. In addition to revenue, net income (loss), loss from operations, and other results under GAAP, we use Adjusted Net Revenue, Adjusted EBITDA, and Adjusted EBITDA margin as a percentage of Adjusted Net Revenue as well as revenue and ANR growth rates in constant currency, which are described below, to evaluate our business. We have included these non-GAAP financial measures because they are key measures used by our management to evaluate our operating performance. Accordingly, we believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management team and board of directors. Our calculation of these non-GAAP financial measures may differ from similarly-titled non-GAAP measures, if any, reported by our peer companies. These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as substitutes for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted Net Revenue We define Adjusted Net Revenue as revenue (i) less excess Driver incentives, (ii) less Driver referrals and (iii) the addition of our COVID-19 response initiative related to payments for financial assistance to Drivers personally impacted by COVID-19. We define Rides Adjusted Net Revenue as Rides revenue (i) less excess Driver incentives, (ii) less Driver referrals and (iii) the addition of our COVID-19 response initiative related to payments for financial assistance to Drivers personally impacted by COVID-19 . We define Eats Adjusted Net Revenue as Eats revenue (i) less excess Driver incentives, (ii) less Driver referrals and (iii) the addition of our COVID-19 response initiative related to payments for financial assistance to Drivers personally impacted by COVID-19 . We believe that these measures are informative of our top line performance because they measures the total net financial activity reflected in the amount earned by us after taking into account all Driver and Restaurant earnings, Driver incentives, and Driver referrals in transactions where the Drivers are our customer. The impact of the COVID-19 response initiative related to payments for financial assistance personally impacted by COVID-19 is recorded as a reduction t o revenue. To help our board, management and investors assess the impact of this COVID-19 response initiative on our results of operations, we are excluding the impact of this COVID-19 response initiative from ANR . Our board and management find the exclusion of the impact of the COVID-19 response initiative from Adjusted Net Revenue to be useful because it allows us and our investors to assess the impact of these response initiatives on our results of operations. Excess Driver Incentives Excess Driver incentives refer to cumulative payments, including incentives but excluding Driver referrals, to Drivers that exceed the cumulative revenue that we recognize from Drivers with no future guarantee of additional revenue. Cumulative payments to Drivers could exceed cumulative revenue from Drivers in transactions where the Drivers are our customer, as a result of Driver incentives or when the amount paid to Drivers for a Trip exceeds the fare charged to the consumer. Further, cumulative payments to Drivers for Eats deliveries historically have exceeded the cumulative delivery fees paid by consumers. Excess Driver incentives are recorded in cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization. Driver Referrals Driver referrals are recorded in sales and marketing expenses. Driver incentives and Driver referrals largely depend on our business decisions based on market conditions. We include the impact of these amounts in Adjusted Net Revenue to evaluate how increasing or decreasing incentives would impact our top line performance, and the overall net financial activity between us and our customers, which ultimately impacts our Take Rate, which is calculated as Adjusted Net Revenue as a percentage of Gross Bookings. Management views Driver incentives and Driver referrals as Driver payments in the aggregate, whether they are classified as Driver incentives, excess Driver incentives, or Driver referrals. COVID-19 Response Initiatives To support those whose earning opportunities have been depressed as a result of COVID-19, as well as communities hit hard by the pandemic, we have announced and implemented several initiatives, including, in particular, payments for financial assistance to Drivers personally impacted by COVID-19 which are recorded as a reduction to revenue. Limitations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Adjusted Net Revenue Reconciliation Adjusted Net Revenue has limitations as a financial measure, should be considered as supplemental in nature, and is not meant as a substitute for revenue prepared in accordance with GAAP. The following tables present reconciliations of Adjusted Net Revenue, Rides Adjusted Net Revenue and Eats Adjusted Net Revenue to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures for each of the periods indicated. Freight Adjusted Net Revenue, Other Bets Adjusted Net Revenue and ATG and Other Technology Programs Adjusted Net Revenue are equal to GAAP net revenue in all periods presented. Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions) 2019 2020 55 Adjusted Net Revenue reconciliation: Revenue $ 3,099 $ 3,543 Deduct: Excess Driver incentives (303 ) (295 ) Driver referrals (35 ) (11 ) Add: COVID-19 response initiative 19 Adjusted Net Revenue $ 2,761 $ 3,256 Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions) 2019 2020 Rides Adjusted Net Revenue reconciliation: Rides revenue $ 2,418 $ 2,470 Deduct: Excess Driver incentives (12 ) (3 ) Driver referrals (29 ) (9 ) Add: COVID-19 response initiative 17 Rides Adjusted Net Revenue $ 2,377 $ 2,475 Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions) 2019 2020 Eats Adjusted Net Revenue reconciliation: Eats revenue $ 536 $ 819 Deduct: Excess Driver incentives (291 ) (292 ) Driver referrals (6 ) (2 ) Add: COVID-19 response initiative 2 Eats Adjusted Net Revenue $ 239 $ 527 Adjusted EBITDA We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss), excluding (i) income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, (ii) net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests, net of tax, (iii) provision for (benefit from) income taxes, (iv) income (loss) from equity method investment, net of tax, (v) interest expense, (vi) other income (expense), net, (vii) depreciation and amortization, (viii) stock-based compensation expense, (ix) certain legal, tax, and regulatory reserve changes and settlements, (x) goodwill and asset impairments/loss on sale of assets, (xi) acquisition and financing related expenses, (xii) restructuring charges and (xiii) other items not indicative of our ongoing operating performance, including COVID-19 response initiatives related to payments for financial assistance to Drivers personally impacted by COVID-19 and the cost of personal protective equipment distributed to Drivers . We have included Adjusted EBITDA in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q because it is a key measure used by our management team to evaluate our operating performance, generate future operating plans, and make strategic decisions, including those relating to operating expenses. Accordingly, we believe that Adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management team and board of directors. In addition, it provides a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons of our business, as it removes the effect of certain non-cash expenses and certain variable charges. To help our board, management and investors assess the impact of COVID-19 pandemic on our results of operations , we are excluding the impacts of COVID-19 response initiatives related to payments for financial assistance to Drivers personally impacted by COVID-19 and the cost of personal protective equipment distributed to Drivers from Adjusted EBITDA. Our 56 board and management find the exclusion of the impact of the COVID-19 response initiatives from Adjusted EBITDA to be useful because it allows us and our investors to assess the impact of these response initiatives on our results of operations. COVID-19 Response Initiatives To support those whose earning opportunities have been depressed as a result of COVID-19, as well as communities hit hard by the pandemic, we have announced and implemented several initiatives, including, in particular, payments for financial assistance to Drivers personally impacted by COVID-19 and the cost of personal protective equipment distributed to Drivers. The payments for financial assistance to Drivers personally impacted by COVID-19 are recorded as a reduction to revenue and the cost of personal protective equipment distributed to Drivers is recorded as an expense in our costs and expenses. Limitations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Adjusted EBITDA Reconciliation Adjusted EBITDA has limitations as a financial measure, should be considered as supplemental in nature, and is not meant as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. These limitations include the following: Adjusted EBITDA excludes certain recurring, non-cash charges, such as depreciation of property and equipment and amortization of intangible assets, and although these are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future, and Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect all cash capital expenditure requirements for such replacements or for new capital expenditure requirements; Adjusted EBITDA excludes stock-based compensation expense, which has been, and will continue to be for the foreseeable future, a significant recurring expense in our business and an important part of our compensation strategy; Adjusted EBITDA excludes other items not indicative of our ongoing operating performance, including COVID-19 response initiatives related to payments for financial assistance to Drivers personally impacted by COVID-19 and the cost of personal protective equipment distributed to Drivers; Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect period to period changes in taxes, income tax expense or the cash necessary to pay income taxes; Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect the components of other income (expense), net, which primarily includes interest income, foreign currency exchange gains (losses), net, gains on business divestitures, unrealized gain (loss) on debt and equity securities, net, impairment of debt and equity securities, and change in fair value of embedded derivatives; and Adjusted EBITDA excludes certain legal, tax, and regulatory reserve changes and settlements that may reduce cash available to us. The following table presents a reconciliation of net income (loss) attributable to Uber Technologies, Inc., the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, to Adjusted EBITDA for each of the periods indicated: 57 Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions) 2019 2020 Adjusted EBITDA reconciliation: Net loss attributable to Uber Technologies, Inc. $ (1,012 ) $ (2,936 ) Add (deduct): Net loss attributable to non-controlling interests, net of tax (4 ) (10 ) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 19 (242 ) Loss from equity method investment, net of tax 6 12 Interest expense 217 118 Other (income) expense, net (260 ) 1,795 Depreciation and amortization 146 128 Stock-based compensation expense 11 277 Legal, tax, and regulatory reserve changes and settlements 19 Goodwill and asset impairments/loss on sale of assets 8 193 Uber Eats India transaction and related costs 10 COVID-19 response initiatives 24 Adjusted EBITDA $ (869 ) $ (612 ) Adjusted EBITDA Margin as a Percentage of ANR We define Adjusted EBITDA margin as a percentage of ANR as Adjusted EBITDA divided by Adjusted Net Revenue. Constant Currency We compare the percent change in our current period results from the corresponding prior period using constant currency disclosure. We present constant currency growth rate information to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying revenue and ANR performed excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations. We calculate constant currency by translating our current period financial results using the corresponding prior periods monthly exchange rates for our transacted currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Liquidity and Capital Resources Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions) 2019 2020 Net cash used in operating activities $ (722 ) $ (463 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 204 (1,856 ) Net cash used in financing activities (46 ) (63 ) Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities was $463 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 , primarily consisting of $2.9 billion of net loss, adjusted for certain non-cash items, which primarily included $1.9 billion in impairment of debt and equity securities and $277 million of stock-based compensation expense as well as a $192 million decrease in cash consumed by working capital primarily driven by an increase in our accrued expenses and other liabilities. Net cash used in operating activities was $722 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , primarily consisting of $1.0 billion of net loss, adjusted for certain non-cash items, which primarily included a $175 million of revaluation income of our derivative liabilities, depreciation and amortization expense of $146 million , $53 million in accretion of discount on our long-term debt, as well as a $220 million decrease in cash consumed by working capital primarily driven by an increase in our accrued expenses and insurance reserves, partially offset by higher accounts receivable. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $1.9 billion for the three months ended March 31, 2020 , primarily consisting of $1.3 billion in acquisition of business, net of cash acquired, $493 million in purchases of marketable securities and $198 million in purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by p roceeds from maturities and sales of marketable securities of $100 million . 58 Net cash provided by investing activities was $204 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , primarily consisting of $293 million in proceeds from business disposal, net of cash divested, partially offset by $129 million in purchases of property and equipment. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $63 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 , primarily consisting of $60 million of principal payments on finance leases. Net cash used in financing activities was $46 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , primarily consisting of $41 million of principal payments on finance leases. Other Information As of March 31, 2020 , $1.3 billion of our $8.2 billion in cash and cash equivalents was held by our foreign subsidiaries. Cash held outside the United States may be repatriated, subject to certain limitations, and would be available to be used to fund our domestic operations. However, repatriation of funds may result in immaterial tax liabilities. We believe that our existing cash balance in the United States is sufficient to fund our working capital needs in the United States. We are in compliance with our debt and line of credit covenants as of March 31, 2020, including by meeting our reporting obligations. We also believe that our sources of funding and our available line of credit will be sufficient to satisfy our currently anticipated cash requirements including capital expenditures, working capital requirements, potential acquisitions, and other liquidity requirements through at least the next 12 months. We intend to continue to evaluate and may, in certain circumstances, take preemptive action to preserve liquidity during the COVID-19 pandemic. As the circumstances around the COVID19 pandemic remain uncertain, we continue to actively monitor the pandemic's impact to us worldwide including our financial position, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2020 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in our financial condition, revenue, or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources that are material to investors. Contractual Obligations As of March 31, 2020, t here were no material changes outside the ordinary course of business to the contractual obligations, as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, except for the commitment to issue convertible notes in connection with the acquisition of Careem. Refer to Note 8 Supplemental Financial Statement Information in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Actual results may differ from these estimates. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and our actual results, our future financial statements will be affected. For additional information about our critical accounting policies and estimates, see the disclosure included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K as well as Note 1 Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , to the condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.