ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes and other financial information included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our audited consolidated financial statements included in our 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition to historical consolidated financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates, and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. You should review the sections titled Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements for a discussion of forward-looking statements and Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors for a discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview We are a technology platform that uses a massive network, leading technology, operational excellence and product expertise to power movement from point A to point B. We develop and operate proprietary technology applications supporting a variety of offerings on our platform. We connect consumers with providers of ride services, merchants and food delivery services as well as public transportation networks. We use this same network, technology, operational excellence and product expertise to connect shippers with carriers in the freight industry. We are also developing technologies that provide new solutions to solve everyday problems. COVID-19 In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has rapidly changed market and economic conditions globally, impacting Drivers, Delivery People, Merchants, consumers and business partners, as well as our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Various governmental restrictions, including the declaration of a federal National Emergency, multiple cities and states declarations of states of emergency, school and business closings, quarantines, shelter at home orders, restrictions on travel, limitations on social or public gatherings, and other social distancing measures have, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on our business and operations, including, for example, by reducing the global demand for Mobility rides. COVID-19 Response Initiatives We continue to prioritize the health and safety of our consumers, Drivers and Merchants and the communities we serve. As one of the worlds largest platforms for work, we continue to believe that we will play an important role in the economic recovery of cities around the globe. We are focused on navigating the challenges presented by COVID-19 through preserving our liquidity and managing our cash flow by taking preemptive action to enhance our ability to meet our short-term liquidity needs. The pandemic has reduced the demand for our Mobility offering globally. We have responded to the COVID-19 pandemic by launching new, or expanding existing, services or features on an expedited basis, particularly those related to delivery of food and other goods. To comply with social distancing guidelines of national, state and local governments, we have temporarily suspended UberPOOL, our shared Mobility offering, in most markets, and implemented leave at door delivery options for Delivery offerings. Additionally, we have asked that all employees who are able to do so work remotely. In addition, to support those whose earning opportunities have been depressed as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as communities hit hard during this unprecedented period, we announced and implemented several initiatives during the first quarter of 2020, including a financial assistance program, for Drivers who are impacted by the pandemic, as well as personal protective equipment disbursement. As vaccination rates increase in the United States, we are observing that consumer demand for Mobility is recovering faster than driver availability, and consumer demand for Delivery continues to exceed courier availability. We recently announced that we are increasing investments in driver incentives to improve driver availability in the near-term. While we continue to assess the impact from the COVID-19 outbreak, we are unable to accurately predict the full impact of COVID-19 on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows due to numerous uncertainties, including the severity of the disease, the duration of the outbreak, any future waves or resurgences of the virus, variants of the virus, the administration, adoption and efficacy of vaccines in the United States and internationally, additional actions that may be taken by governmental authorities, the further impact on the business of Drivers, Merchants, consumers, and business partners, and other factors identified in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Driver Classification Developments The classification of Drivers is currently being challenged in courts, by legislators and by government agencies in the United States and abroad. We are involved in numerous legal proceedings globally, including putative class and collective class action lawsuits, demands for arbitration, charges and claims before administrative agencies, and investigations or audits by labor, social security, and tax authorities that claim that Drivers should be treated as our employees (or as workers or quasi-employees where those statuses exist), rather than as independent contractors. Of particular note are proceedings in California, where on May 5, 2020, the 35 California Attorney General, in conjunction with the city attorneys for San Francisco, Los Angeles and San Diego, filed a complaint in San Francisco Superior Court (the Court) against Uber and Lyft, alleging that drivers are misclassified, and sought an injunction and monetary damages related to the alleged competitive advantage caused by the alleged misclassification of drivers. On August 10, 2020, the Court issued a preliminary injunction order prohibiting us from classifying Drivers as independent contractors and from violating various wage and hour laws. Following a stay of the injunction and our unsuccessful appeal of the injunction to a Court of Appeal, we were ordered to comply with the preliminary injunction. In November 2020, California voters approved Proposition 22, a state ballot initiative that provides a framework for drivers that use platforms like ours for independent work. Proposition 22 went into effect in December 2020 and we expect that Drivers will be able to maintain their status as independent contractors under California law and that we and our competitors will be required to comply with the provisions of Proposition 22. Although we do not expect that the California Attorney Generals preliminary injunction will go into effect, litigation asserting that Assembly Bill 5 requires Drivers in California to be classified as employees, including the California Attorney Generals suit, remains pending, and we may face liability relating to periods before the effective date of Proposition 22. To comply with Proposition 22, we have incurred and expect to incur additional expenses, including expenses associated with a guaranteed minimum earnings floor for Drivers, insurance for injury protection and subsidies for health care. We do not expect these changes will have a material impact on our business, results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. Also of note, on October 28, 2015, a claim by 25 Drivers, including Mr. Y. Aslam and Mr. J. Farrar, was brought in the UK Employment Tribunal against us asserting that they should be classified as workers (a separate category between independent contractors and employees) in the UK rather than independent contractors. The tribunal ruled on October 28, 2016 that the Drivers were workers whenever our app was switched on and they were ready and able to take trips, based on an assessment of the app in July 2016. The Court of Appeal rejected our appeal in a majority decision on December 19, 2018. We appealed to the Supreme Court and a hearing at the Supreme Court took place in July 2020. On February 19, 2021, the Supreme Court of the UK upheld the tribunal ruling. Subsequently, we initiated a historical claims settlement process to UK drivers. Damages may include back pay including holiday pay and minimum wage. Additional claimants have also filed and each claimant will be required to bring their own separate action to an employment tribunal to determine whether they met the worker classification and if so, how much each claimant will be awarded. On March 16, 2021, we announced that more than 70,000 drivers in the UK will be treated as workers, earning at least the National Living Wage when driving with Uber. They will also be paid for holiday time and all those eligible will be automatically enrolled into a pension plan. We have also initiated a settlement process with drivers in the UK to resolve historical claims relating to their classification under UK law. In addition, we expect to be subject to historical pension contributions, which requires our separate engagement with the UK pension regulator. If, as a result of legislation or judicial decisions, we are required to classify Drivers as employees, workers or quasi-employees where those statuses exist, we would incur significant additional expenses for compensating Drivers, including expenses associated with the application of wage and hour laws (including minimum wage, overtime, and meal and rest period requirements), employee benefits, social security contributions, taxes (direct and indirect), and potential penalties. Additionally, we may not have adequate Driver supply as Drivers may opt out of our platform given the loss of flexibility under an employment model, and we may not be able to hire a majority of the Drivers currently using our platform. Any of these events could negatively impact our business, result of operations, financial position, and cash flows. For a discussion of risk factors related to how misclassification challenges may impact our business, result of operations, financial position and operating condition and cash flows, see the risk factor titled -Our business would be adversely affected if Drivers were classified as employees, workers or quasi-employees included in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors, and Note 12 Commitments and Contingencies in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. In addition, if we are required to classify Drivers as employees, this may impact our current financial statement presentation including revenue, cost of revenue, incentives and promotions as further described in our significant and critical accounting policies in the section titled Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Note 1 in the section titled Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. 36 Financial and Operational Highlights Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2020 2021 % Change % Change (Constant Currency (1) ) Monthly Active Platform Consumers (MAPCs) (2) 103 98 (5) % Trips (2) 1,661 1,447 (13) % Gross Bookings (2) $ 15,776 $ 19,536 24 % 22 % Revenue $ 3,248 $ 2,903 (11) % (11) % Revenue Excluding the UK Accrual (1) $ 3,248 $ 3,503 8 % 6 % Net loss attributable to Uber Technologies, Inc. (3) $ (2,936) $ (108) 96 % Mobility Adjusted EBITDA $ 581 $ 298 (49) % Delivery Adjusted EBITDA $ (313) $ (200) 36 % Adjusted EBITDA (1), (2) $ (612) $ (359) 41 % (1) See the section titled Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures for more information and reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. (2) See the section titled Certain Key Metrics and Non-GAAP Financial Measures for more information. (3) Net loss attributable to Uber Technologies, Inc. included stock-based compensation expense of $277 million and $281 million in the first quarter of 2020 and 2021, respectively. Highlights for the First Quarter 2021 In the first quarter of 2021, we continued to show signs of the business recovering from the impacts of COVID-19. Our MAPCs were 98 million, adding 5 million, or growing 5%, quarter-over-quarter. Overall Gross Bookings increased to $19.5 billion in the first quarter of 2021, or 22% on a constant currency basis, compared to the same period in 2020. Delivery Gross Bookings grew 157% year-over-year, on a constant currency basis, outpacing Delivery Trip growth, as we saw a 29% increase in basket sizes globally driven by stay-at-home order demand related to COVID-19. Mobility Gross Bookings declined 36% year-over-year, on a constant currency basis, but improving from the fourth quarter of 2020 year-over-year decline of 47%, on a constant currency basis. Revenue was $2.9 billion, down 11%, with a Take Rate of 14.9%. Revenue was reduced by a $600 million accrual made for the resolution of historical claims in the UK relating to the classification of drivers. Revenue excluding the UK accrual increased to $3.5 billion, up 8%, or 6% on a constant currency basis, compared to the same period in 2020, with a revenue take rate excluding the UK accrual of 17.9%. Revenue excluding the UK accrual is a Non-GAAP measure. Refer to the section titled Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures for more information and reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. Net loss attributable to Uber Technologies, Inc. was $108 million, which included $281 million of stock-based compensation expense. Net loss benefited from a $1.6 billion pre-tax gain from the sale of our ATG Business, partially offset by a $600 million accrual made for the resolution of historical claims in the UK relating to the classification of drivers. Adjusted EBITDA loss was $359 million, with Mobility Adjusted EBITDA profit of $298 million, despite Mobility Gross Bookings decline of 36%, on a constant currency basis. Additionally, Delivery Adjusted EBITDA margin as a percentage of Delivery revenue improved to (11.5)% from (59.4)%, compared the same period in 2020. We ended the quarter with $5.7 billion in unrestricted cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments. Other Developments for the First Quarter 2021 Divestiture of ATG Business to Aurora On January 19, 2021, we completed the previously announced sale of Apparate USA LLC (Apparate or the ATG Business), a subsidiary focused on the development and commercialization of autonomous vehicle technology, to Aurora Innovation, Inc. (Aurora). As a result, our controlling interest and the non-controlling interests in the ATG Business were settled, and ownership of the ATG Business transferred to Aurora. For additional information, see Note 16 Divestiture in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 37 Components of Results of Operations Revenue We generate substantially all of our revenue from fees paid by Drivers and Merchants for use of our platform. We have concluded that we are an agent in these arrangements as we arrange for other parties to provide the service to the end-user. Under this model, revenue is net of Driver and Merchant earnings and Driver incentives. We act as an agent in these transactions by connecting consumers to Drivers and Merchants to facilitate a Trip, meal or grocery delivery service. For additional discussion related to our revenue, see the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates - Revenue Recognition, Note 1 - Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - Revenue Recognition, and Note 2 - Revenue to our audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020 and Note 2 Revenue in this Quarterly Report in Form 10-Q. Cost of Revenue, Exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization Cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, primarily consists of certain insurance costs related to our Mobility and Delivery offerings, credit card processing fees, bank fees, data center and networking expenses, mobile device and service costs, costs incurred for certain Delivery transactions where we are primarily responsible for delivery services and pay Delivery People for services provided, costs incurred with carriers for Uber Freight transportation services, amounts related to fare chargebacks and other credit card losses. We expect that cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, will fluctuate on an absolute dollar basis for the foreseeable future in line with Trip volume changes on the platform. As Trips increase or decrease, we expect related changes for insurance costs, credit card processing fees, hosting and co-located data center expenses, maps license fees, and other cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization. Operations and Support Operations and support expenses primarily consist of compensation expenses, including stock-based compensation, for employees that support operations in cities, including the general managers, Driver operations, platform user support representatives and community managers. Also included is the cost of customer support, Driver background checks and the allocation of certain corporate costs. As our business recovers from the impacts of COVID-19 and Trip volume increases, we would expect operations and support expenses to increase on an absolute dollar basis for the foreseeable future, but decrease as a percentage of revenue as we become more efficient in supporting platform users. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of compensation costs, including stock-based compensation to sales and marketing employees, advertising costs, product marketing costs and discounts, loyalty programs, promotions, refunds, and credits provided to end-users who are not customers, and the allocation of certain corporate costs. We expense advertising and other promotional expenditures as incurred. As our business recovers from the impacts of COVID-19, we would anticipate sales and marketing expenses to increase on an absolute dollar basis for the foreseeable future but vary from period to period as a percentage of revenue due to timing of marketing campaigns. Research and Development Research and development expenses primarily consist of compensation costs, including stock-based compensation, for employees in engineering, design and product development. Expenses includes ATG and Other Technology Programs development expenses, as well as expenses associated with ongoing improvements to, and maintenance of, existing products and services, and allocation of certain corporate costs. We expense substantially all research and development expenses as incurred. We expect research and development expenses to increase and vary from period to period as a percentage of revenue as we continue to invest in research and development activities relating to ongoing improvements to and maintenance of our platform offerings and other research and development programs, offset by a decrease in investments in our ATG and Other Technology Programs subsequent to the sale of our ATG Business. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist of compensation costs, including stock-based compensation, for executive management and administrative employees, including finance and accounting, human resources, policy and communications, legal, and certain impairment charges, as well as allocation of certain corporate costs, occupancy, and general corporate insurance costs. General and administrative expenses also include certain legal settlements. 38 As our business recovers from the impacts of COVID-19 and Trip volume increases, we expect that general and administrative expenses will increase on an absolute dollar basis for the foreseeable future, but decrease as a percentage of revenue as we find efficiencies in our internal support functions. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expenses primarily consist of depreciation on buildings, site improvements, computer and network equipment, software, leasehold improvements, leased vehicles, furniture and fixtures, and amortization of intangible assets. Depreciation includes expenses associated with buildings, site improvements, computer and network equipment, leased vehicles, and furniture, fixtures, as well as leasehold improvements. Amortization includes expenses associated with our capitalized internal-use software and acquired intangible assets. As our business recovers from the impacts of COVID-19, we would anticipate depreciation and amortization expenses to increase as we continue to build out our network infrastructure and building locations. Interest Expense Interest expense consists primarily of interest expense associated with our outstanding debt, including accretion of debt discount. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net primarily includes the following items: Interest income, which consists primarily of interest earned on our cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents. Foreign currency exchange gains (losses), net, which consist primarily of remeasurement of transactions and monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency at the end of the period. Gain on business divestitures. Unrealized gain (loss) on debt and equity securities, net, which consists primarily of gains (losses) from fair value adjustments relating to our non-marketable securities. Impairment of debt and equity securities. Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the United States and foreign jurisdictions in which we do business. These foreign jurisdictions have different statutory tax rates than those in the United States. Additionally, certain of our foreign earnings may also be taxable in the United States. Accordingly, our effective tax rate will vary depending on the relative proportion of foreign to domestic income, use of foreign tax credits, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets, and liabilities and changes in tax laws. Equity Method Investments Equity method investments primarily includes the results of our share of income or loss from our Yandex.Taxi joint venture. 39 Results of Operations The following table summarizes our condensed consolidated statements of operations for each of the periods presented (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2021 Revenue $ 3,248 $ 2,903 Costs and expenses: Cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below 1,491 1,710 Operations and support 503 423 Sales and marketing 885 1,103 Research and development 645 515 General and administrative 859 464 Depreciation and amortization 128 212 Total costs and expenses 4,511 4,427 Loss from operations (1,263) (1,524) Interest expense (118) (115) Other income (expense), net (1,795) 1,710 Income (loss) before income taxes and loss from equity method investments (3,176) 71 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes (242) 185 Loss from equity method investments (12) (8) Net loss including non-controlling interests (2,946) (122) Less: net loss attributable to non-controlling interests, net of tax (10) (14) Net loss attributable to Uber Technologies, Inc. $ (2,936) $ (108) The following table sets forth the components of our condensed consolidated statements of operations for each of the periods presented as a percentage of revenue (1) : Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2021 Revenue 100 % 100 % Costs and expenses: Cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below 46 % 59 % Operations and support 15 % 15 % Sales and marketing 27 % 38 % Research and development 20 % 18 % General and administrative 26 % 16 % Depreciation and amortization 4 % 7 % Total costs and expenses 139 % 152 % Loss from operations (39) % (52) % Interest expense (4) % (4) % Other income (expense), net (55) % 59 % Income (loss) before income taxes and loss from equity method investments (98) % 2 % Provision for (benefit from) income taxes (7) % 6 % Loss from equity method investments % % Net loss including non-controlling interests (91) % (4) % Less: net loss attributable to non-controlling interests, net of tax % % Net loss attributable to Uber Technologies, Inc. (90) % (4) % (1) Totals of percentage of revenues may not foot due to rounding. 40 The following discussion and analysis is for the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to same period in 2020. Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2020 2021 % Change Revenue $ 3,248 $ 2,903 (11) % Revenue decreased $345 million, or 11%, primarily attributable to a $600 million accrual made for the resolution of historical claims in the UK relating to the classification of drivers. Revenue excluding the UK accrual increased to $3.5 billion, up 8%, primarily attributable to an increase in Gross Bookings of 22%, on a constant currency basis. The increase in Gross Bookings was primarily driven by an increase in Delivery Gross Bookings growth of 157%, on a constant currency basis, due to an increase in food delivery orders and higher basket sizes as a result of stay-at-home order demand related to COVID-19, as well as continued expansion across U.S. and international markets. The increase was partially offset by a decline in Mobility Gross Bookings of 36%, on a constant currency basis, due to adverse impacts of COVID-19. Cost of Revenue, Exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2020 2021 % Change Cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization $ 1,491 $ 1,710 15 % Percentage of revenue 46 % 59 % Cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, increased $219 million, or 15%, mainly due to $378 million increase in Delivery People payments and incentives in certain markets and a $77 million increase in Freight carrier payments. These increases were partially offset by a $226 million decrease in insurance costs. Operations and Support Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2020 2021 % Change Operations and support $ 503 $ 423 (16) % Percentage of revenue 15 % 15 % Opera tions and support expenses decreased $80 million, or 16%, primarily attributable to a $75 million decrease in employee headcount costs from cost reduction actions in 2020. Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2020 2021 % Change Sales and marketing $ 885 $ 1,103 25 % Percentage of revenue 27 % 38 % Sales and marketing expenses increased $218 million, or 25%, primarily attributable to a $125 million increase in consumer advertising expenses as well as an increase in consumer discounts, rider facing loyalty expense, promotions, credits and refunds of $75 million to $585 million compared to $510 million in the same period in 2020. Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2020 2021 % Change Research and development $ 645 $ 515 (20) % Percentage of revenue 20 % 18 % Research and development expenses decreased $130 million, or 20%, primarily attributable to a $115 million decrease in employee headcount costs as well as a $34 million decrease in stock-based compensation expense. These decreases were primarily due to the sale of JUMP in the second quarter of 2020 as well as the sale of our ATG Business in the first quarter of 2021. 41 General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2020 2021 % Change General and administrative $ 859 $ 464 (46) % Percentage of revenue 26 % 16 % General and administrative expenses decreased $395 million, or 46%, primarily attributable to $193 million in impairment charges related to our New Mobility reporting unit recorded during the first quarter of 2020 primarily related to COVID-19 impacts on certain markets, a net $68 million decrease in legal, tax, and regulatory reserve changes and settlements, and a $59 million decrease in employee headcount costs. Depreciation and Amortization Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2020 2021 % Change Depreciation and amortization $ 128 $ 212 66 % Percentage of revenue 4 % 7 % Depreciation and amortization expenses increased $84 million, or 66%, primarily attributable to an increase in amortization of capital lease servers and new internally developed software costs, as well as additional amortization expenses related to newly acquired Postmates and Cornershop intangible assets, partially offset by a decrease in amortization of Careem intangible assets that fully amortized in 2020. Interest Expense Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2020 2021 % Change Interest expense $ (118) $ (115) (3) % Percentage of revenue (4) % (4) % Interest expense decreased by an immaterial amount. Other Income (Expense), Net Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2020 2021 % Change Interest income $ 38 $ 5 (87) % Foreign currency exchange gains (losses), net (28) (25) 11 % Gain on business divestitures 154 1,684 ** Unrealized gain (loss) on debt and equity securities, net (114) 63 155 % Impairment of debt and equity securities (1,863) ** Other, net 18 (17) (194) % Other income (expense), net $ (1,795) $ 1,710 195 % Percentage of revenue (55) % 59 % ** Percentage not meaningful. Interest income decreased by $33 million, or 87%, primarily due to lower cash balances and market interest rates. Gain on business divestitures increased by $1.5 billion primarily related to a $1.6 billion gain on the sale of our ATG Business to Aurora. For additional information, refer to Note 16 Divestiture in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Impairment of debt and equity securities decreased by $1.9 billion primarily due to an impairment charge of $1.9 billion, primarily related to our investment in Didi, and a $173 million allowance for credit loss recorded on our investment in Grab recognized in the first quarter of 2020. 42 Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2020 2021 % Change Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ (242) $ 185 (176) % Effective tax rate 8 % 261 % Income tax expense increased by $427 million, primarily driven by current tax on foreign earnings, the deferred U.S. tax impact related to our investment in Aurora upon the sale of our ATG Business, offset by a partial benefit of U.S. losses in the first quarter of 2021, and the tax impact from the impairment charge related to our investment in Didi in the first quarter of 2020. Loss from Equity Method Investments Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2020 2021 % Change Loss from equity method investments $ (12) $ (8) 33 % Percentage of revenue % % Loss from equity method investments decreased by $4 million, or 33%, due to our portion of the net loss from our Yandex.Taxi joint venture. Segment Results of Operations We operate our business as three operating and reportable segments: Mobility, Delivery and Freight. For additional information about our segments, see Note 11 Segment Information and Geographic Information in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2020 2021 % Change Mobility $ 2,467 $ 853 (65) % Delivery 527 1,741 230 % Freight 199 301 51 % All Other (1) 55 8 ** Total Revenue $ 3,248 $ 2,903 (11) % (1) Includes ATG and Other Technology Programs and historical results of New Mobility. Refer to Note 11 Segment Information and Geographic Information and Note 16 Divestiture for further information. ** Percentage not meaningful. Segment Adjusted EBITDA Segment Adjusted EBITDA is defined as revenue less the following expenses: cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, operations and support, sales and marketing, and general and administrative and research and development expenses associated with our segments. Segment adjusted EBITDA also excludes non-cash items, certain transactions that are not indicative of ongoing segment operating performance and / or items that management does not believe are reflective of our ongoing core operations. For additional information, see Note 11 Segment Information and Geographic Information in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 43 Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2020 2021 % Change Mobility $ 581 $ 298 (49) % Delivery (313) (200) 36 % Freight (64) (29) 55 % All Other (1) (171) (11) 94 % Corporate G&A and Platform R&D (2), (3) (645) (417) 35 % Adjusted EBITDA (4) $ (612) $ (359) 41 % (1) Includes ATG and Other Technology Programs and historical results of New Mobility. Refer to Note 11 Segment Information and Geographic Information and Note 16 Divestiture for further information regarding the sale of our ATG Business. (2 ) Excluding stock-based compensation expense. (3) Includes costs that are not directly attributable to our reportable segments. Corporate G&A also includes certain shared costs such as finance, accounting, tax, human resources, information technology and legal costs. Platform R&D also includes mapping and payment technologies and support and development of the internal technology infrastructure. Our allocation methodology is periodically evaluated and may change. (4) See the section titled Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures for more information and reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. Mobility Segment For the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020, Mobility revenue decreased $1.6 billion, or 65%, and Mobility adjusted EBITDA profit decreased $283 million, or 49%. Mobility revenue decreased primarily attributable to a $600 million accrual made for the resolution of historical claims in the UK relating to the classification of drivers as well as a decrease in Mobility Gross Bookings due to adverse impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic. Mobility Take Rate was 12.6%, down from 22.7% compared to the same period in 2020. Mobility Take Rate, excluding the UK accrual was 21.5%, down 120 basis points compared to the same period in 2020. Mobility adjusted EBITDA profit decreased primarily attributable to a decrease in Mobility revenue, partially offset by a $280 million decrease in insurance expense as a result of a decrease in miles driven, a $105 million decrease in consumer promotions, and a $91 million decrease in credit card processing costs. Delivery Segment For the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020, Delivery revenue increased $1.2 billion, or 230%, and Delivery adjusted EBITDA loss decreased $113 million, or 36%. Delivery revenue increased primarily attributable to an increase in Delivery Gross Bookings of 157%, on a constant currency basis, driven by an increase in food delivery orders and higher basket sizes as a result of stay-at-home demand related to COVID-19, combined with continued expansion across U.S. and international markets. Take Rate improved to 14.0% from 11.3% compared to the same period in 2020 driven by a decrease in incentive spend combined with an overall improvement in basket sizes. Additionally, we saw an increase in Delivery revenue and Take Rate resulting from an increase in certain Delivery People payments and incentives that are recorded in cost of revenue, where we are primarily responsible for delivery services and pay Delivery People for services provided. Delivery adjusted EBITDA loss decreased primarily attributable to an increase in Delivery revenue, partially offset by a $589 million increase in cost of revenue as well as a $318 million increase in consumer promotions, brand marketing, and employee headcount costs. Freight Segment For the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020, Freight revenue increased $102 million, or 51%, and Freight adjusted EBITDA loss decreased $35 million, or 55%. Freight revenue increased primarily attributable to growth in the number of shippers and carriers on the network combined with an increase in volumes with our top shippers. Freight adjusted EBITDA loss decreased attributable to a $20 million improvement in gross profit and, to a lesser extent, a decrease in employee headcount costs. 44 Certain Key Metrics and Non-GAAP Financial Measures Adjusted EBITDA, revenue excluding the UK accrual, and Mobility revenue excluding the UK accrual, Adjusted EBITDA margin as a percentage of revenue, as well as, revenue growth rates in constant currency are non-GAAP financial measures. For more information about how we use these non-GAAP financial measures in our business, the limitations of these measures, and reconciliations of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, see the section titled Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures. Monthly Active Platform Consumers. MAPCs is the number of unique consumers who completed a Mobility or New Mobility ride or received a Delivery order on our platform at least once in a given month, averaged over each month in the quarter. While a unique consumer can use multiple product offerings on our platform in a given month, that unique consumer is counted as only one MAPC. We use MAPCs to assess the adoption of our platform and frequency of transactions, which are key factors in our penetration of the countries in which we operate. Trips. We define Trips as the number of completed consumer Mobility or New Mobility rides and Delivery orders in a given period. For example, an UberPOOL ride with three paying consumers represents three unique Trips, whereas an UberX ride with three passengers represents one Trip. We believe that Trips are a useful metric to measure the scale and usage of our platform. Gross Bookings. We define Gross Bookings as the total dollar value, including any applicable taxes, tolls, and fees, of Mobility and New Mobility rides, Delivery meal or grocery deliveries, and amounts paid by Freight shippers, in each case without any adjustment for consumer discounts and refunds, Driver and Merchant earnings, and Driver incentives. Gross Bookings do not include tips earned by Drivers. Gross Bookings are an indication of the scale of our current platform, which ultimately impacts revenue. 45 Q2 2019 Q3 2019 Q4 2019 Q1 2020 Q2 2020 Q3 2020 Q4 2020 Q1 2021 Mobility $ 12,188 $ 12,554 $ 13,512 $ 10,874 $ 3,046 $ 5,905 $ 6,789 $ 6,773 Delivery 3,386 3,658 4,374 4,683 6,961 8,550 10,050 12,461 Freight 167 223 219 198 212 290 313 302 All Other (1) 15 30 26 21 5 (1) Includes ATG and Other Technology Programs and historical results of New Mobility. Refer to Note 11 Segment Information and Geographic Information and Note 16 Divestiture for further information regarding the sale of our ATG Business. Take Rate is an operating metric and defined as revenue as a percentage of Gross Bookings. Take Rate excluding the UK accrual is defined as revenue excluding the UK accrual as a percentage of Gross Bookings. Mobility Take Rate excluding the UK accrual is defined as Mobility revenue excluding the UK accrual as a percentage of Gross Bookings. Adjusted EBITDA. See the section titled Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures for our definition and a reconciliation of net loss attributable to Uber Technologies, Inc. to Adjusted EBITDA. Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2020 2021 % Change Adjusted EBITDA $ (612) $ (359) 41 % Adjusted EBITDA loss decreased $253 million, or 41%, primarily attributable to a decrease of $228 million in Corporate G&A and Platform R&D costs, the favorable impact of $160 million in our other business offerings driven by the sale of our ATG Business in January 2021 as well as a $113 million improvement in Delivery Adjusted EBITDA loss. These impacts were partially offset by a $283 million decrease in Mobility Adjusted EBITDA. Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures We collect and analyze operating and financial data to evaluate the health of our business and assess our performance. In addition to revenue, net income (loss), loss from operations, and other results under GAAP, we use Adjusted EBITDA, revenue excluding the UK accrual, and Mobility revenue excluding the UK accrual, Adjusted EBITDA margin as a percentage of revenue, as well as, revenue growth rates in constant currency, which are described below, to evaluate our business. We use these non-GAAP financial measures for financial and operational decision-making and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our performance by excluding certain items that may not be indicative of our recurring core business operating results. We believe that both management and investors benefit from referring to these non-GAAP financial measures in assessing our performance and when planning, forecasting, and analyzing future periods. These non-GAAP financial measures also facilitate managements internal comparisons to our historical performance. We believe these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors both because (1) they allow for greater transparency with respect to key metrics used by management in its financial and operational decision-making and (2) they are used by our institutional investors and the analyst community to help them analyze the health of our business. Accordingly, we believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management team and board of directors. Our calculation of these non-GAAP financial measures may differ from similarly-titled non-GAAP measures, if any, reported by our peer 46 companies. These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as substitutes for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss), excluding (i) income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, (ii) net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests, net of tax, (iii) provision for (benefit from) income taxes, (iv) income (loss) from equity method investments, (v) interest expense, (vi) other income (expense), net, (vii) depreciation and amortization, (viii) stock-based compensation expense, (ix) certain legal, tax, and regulatory reserve changes and settlements, (x) goodwill and asset impairments/loss on sale of assets, (xi) acquisition, financing and divestitures related expenses, (xii) restructuring and related charges and (xiii) other items not indicative of our ongoing operating performance, including COVID-19 response initiatives related payments for financial assistance to Drivers personally impacted by COVID-19, the cost of personal protective equipment distributed to Drivers, Driver reimbursement for their cost of purchasing personal protective equipment, the costs related to free rides and food deliveries to healthcare workers, seniors, and others in need as well as charitable donations. We have included Adjusted EBITDA in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q because it is a key measure used by our management team to evaluate our operating performance, generate future operating plans, and make strategic decisions, including those relating to operating expenses. Accordingly, we believe that Adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management team and board of directors. In addition, it provides a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons of our business, as it removes the effect of certain non-cash expenses and certain variable charges. To help our board, management and investors assess the impact of COVID-19 on our results of operations, we are excluding the impacts of COVID-19 response initiatives related payments for financial assistance to Drivers personally impacted by COVID-19, the cost of personal protective equipment distributed to Drivers, Driver reimbursement for their cost of purchasing personal protective equipment, the costs related to free rides and food deliveries to healthcare workers, seniors, and others in need as well as charitable donations from Adjusted EBITDA. Our board and management find the exclusion of the impact of these COVID-19 response initiatives from Adjusted EBITDA to be useful because it allows us and our investors to assess the impact of these response initiatives on our results of operations. COVID-19 Response Initiatives To support those whose earning opportunities have been depressed as a result of COVID-19, as well as communities hit hard by the pandemic, we have announced and implemented several initiatives, including, in particular, payments for financial assistance to Drivers personally impacted by COVID-19, the cost of personal protective equipment distributed to Drivers, Driver reimbursement for their cost of purchasing personal protective equipment, the costs related to free rides and food deliveries to healthcare workers, seniors, and others in need as well as charitable donations. The payments for financial assistance to Drivers personally impacted by COVID-19 and Driver reimbursement for their cost of purchasing personal protective equipment are recorded as a reduction to revenue. The cost of personal protective equipment distributed to Drivers, the costs related to free rides and food deliveries to healthcare workers, seniors, and others in need as well as charitable donations are recorded as an expense in our costs and expenses. Limitations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Adjusted EBITDA Reconciliation Adjusted EBITDA has limitations as a financial measure, should be considered as supplemental in nature, and is not meant as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. These limitations include the following: Adjusted EBITDA excludes certain recurring, non-cash charges, such as depreciation of property and equipment and amortization of intangible assets, and although these are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future, and Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect all cash capital expenditure requirements for such replacements or for new capital expenditure requirements; Adjusted EBITDA excludes stock-based compensation expense, which has been, and will continue to be for the foreseeable future, a significant recurring expense in our business and an important part of our compensation strategy; Adjusted EBITDA excludes certain restructuring and related charges, part of which may be settled in cash; Adjusted EBITDA excludes other items not indicative of our ongoing operating performance, including COVID-19 response initiatives related payments for financial assistance to Drivers personally impacted by COVID-19, the cost of personal protective equipment distributed to Drivers, Driver reimbursement for their cost of purchasing personal protective equipment, the costs related to free rides and food deliveries to healthcare workers, seniors, and others in need as well as charitable donations; Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect period-to-period changes in taxes, income tax expense or the cash necessary to pay income taxes; Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect the components of other income (expense), net, which primarily includes: interest income; foreign currency exchange gains (losses), net; gain (loss) on business divestitures, net; unrealized gain (loss) on debt and equity securities, net; impairment of debt and equity securities; and other; and 47 Adjusted EBITDA excludes certain legal, tax, and regulatory reserve changes and settlements that may reduce cash available to us. The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss attributable to Uber Technologies, Inc., the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, to Adjusted EBITDA for each of the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions) 2020 2021 Adjusted EBITDA reconciliation: Net loss attributable to Uber Technologies, Inc. $ (2,936) $ (108) Add (deduct): Net loss attributable to non-controlling interests, net of tax (10) (14) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes (242) 185 Loss from equity method investments 12 8 Interest expense 118 115 Other (income) expense, net 1,795 (1,710) Depreciation and amortization 128 212 Stock-based compensation expense 277 281 Legal, tax, and regulatory reserve changes and settlements 19 551 Goodwill and asset impairments/loss on sale of assets 193 57 Acquisition, financing and divestitures related expenses 10 36 Accelerated lease costs related to cease-use of ROU assets 2 COVID-19 response initiatives 24 26 Adjusted EBITDA $ (612) $ (359) Adjusted EBITDA Margin as a Percentage of Revenue We define Adjusted EBITDA margin as a percentage of revenue as Adjusted EBITDA divided by revenue. Segment Adjusted EBITDA margin as a percentage of revenue is segment Adjusted EBITDA divided by segment revenue. Constant Currency We compare the percent change in our current period results from the corresponding prior period using constant currency disclosure. We present constant currency growth rate information to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying revenue performed excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations. We calculate constant currency by translating our current period financial results using the corresponding prior periods monthly exchange rates for our transacted currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Revenue Excluding the UK Accrual We define revenue excluding the UK accrual, and Mobility revenue excluding the UK accrual, as revenue, and Mobility revenue, excluding a $600 million accrual made in the first quarter of 2021 for the resolution of historical claims in the UK relating to the classification of drivers. Limitations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Revenue Excluding the UK Accrual Reconciliations Revenue excluding the UK accrual, and Mobility revenue excluding the UK accrual, have limitations as a financial measure, should be considered as supplemental in nature, and are not meant as substitutes for revenue prepared in accordance with GAAP. The following tables present reconciliations of revenue excluding the UK accrual, and Mobility revenue excluding the UK accrual, to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure for each of the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions) 2020 2021 Revenue excluding the UK accrual reconciliation: Revenue $ 3,248 $ 2,903 Add: UK accrual 600 Revenue excluding the UK accrual $ 3,248 $ 3,503 48 Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions) 2020 2021 Mobility revenue excluding the UK accrual reconciliation: Mobility revenue $ 2,467 $ 853 Add: UK accrual 600 Mobility revenue excluding the UK accrual $ 2,467 $ 1,453 49 Liquidity and Capital Resources Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions) 2020 2021 Net cash used in operating activities $ (463) $ (611) Net cash used in investing activities (1,856) (250) Net cash used in financing activities (63) (226) Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities was $611 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, primarily consisting of $122 million of net loss, adjusted for certain non-cash items, which primarily included $1.7 billion gain on business divestitures and $281 million of stock-based compensation expense as well as a $412 million decrease in cash consumed by working capital primarily driven by an increase in our accrued expenses and other current liabilities. Net cash used in operating activities was $463 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020, primarily consisting of $2.9 billion of net loss, adjusted for certain non-cash items, which primarily included $1.9 billion in impairment of debt and equity securities and $277 million of stock-based compensation expense as well as a $192 million decrease in cash consumed by working capital primarily driven by an increase in our accrued expenses and other liabilities. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $250 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, primarily consisting of $803 million in purchases of non-marketable equity securities, $336 million in purchases of marketable securities and $216 million in purchases of a note receivable, partially offset by proceeds from maturities and sales of marketable securities of $696 million and $500 million in proceeds from the sale of non-marketable equity securities. Net cash used in investing activities was $1.9 billion for the three months ended March 31, 2020, primarily consisting of $1.3 billion in acquisition of business, net of cash acquired, $493 million in purchases of marketable securities and $198 million in purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by proceeds from maturities and sales of marketable securities of $100 million. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $226 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, primarily consisting of $194 million of principal repayment on Careem Notes. Net cash used in financing activities was $63 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020, primarily consisting of $60 million of principal payments on financing leases. Other Information As of March 31, 2021, $1.8 billion of our $4.8 billion in cash and cash equivalents was held by our foreign subsidiaries. Cash held outside the United States may be repatriated, subject to certain limitations, and would be available to be used to fund our domestic operations. However, repatriation of funds may result in immaterial tax liabilities. We believe that our existing cash balance in the United States is sufficient to fund our working capital needs in the United States. We are in compliance with our debt and line of credit covenants as of March 31, 2021, including by meeting our reporting obligations. We also believe that our sources of funding and our available line of credit will be sufficient to satisfy our currently anticipated cash requirements including capital expenditures, working capital requirements, potential acquisitions, potential prepayments of contested indirect tax assessments (pay-to-play), and other liquidity requirements through at least the next 12 months. We intend to continue to evaluate and may, in certain circumstances, take preemptive action to preserve liquidity during the COVID-19 pandemic. As the circumstances around the COVID-19 pandemic remain uncertain, we continue to actively monitor the pandemic's impact to us worldwide including our financial position, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2021, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in our financial condition, revenue, or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources that are material to investors. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical 50 experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Actual results may differ from these estimates. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and our actual results, our future financial statements will be affected. For additional information about our critical accounting policies and estimates, see the disclosure included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K as well as Note 1 Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Contractual Obligations As of January 2, 2020, we committed to issue convertible notes in connection with the acquisition of Careem which remains in effect as of March 31, 2021. Refer to Note 15 Business Combinations in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. As of March 31, 2021, there have been no other material changes outside the ordinary course of business to the contractual obligations, as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.