Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, or prospects and could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, which would cause you to lose all or part of your investment. Our business, financial condition, operating results, or prospects could also be harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material. Risk Factor Summary The following are some of these risks, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business financial condition, operating results, or prospects. The COVID-19 pandemic and the impact of actions to mitigate the pandemic has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect parts of our business. Our business would be adversely affected if Drivers were classified as employees, workers or quasi-employees instead of independent contractors. The mobility, delivery, and logistics industries are highly competitive, with well-established and low-cost alternatives that have been available for decades, low barriers to entry, low switching costs, and well-capitalized competitors in nearly every major geographic region. To remain competitive in certain markets, we have in the past lowered, and may continue to lower, fares or service fees, and we have in the past offered, and may continue to offer, significant Driver incentives and consumer discounts and promotions. We have incurred significant losses since inception, including in the United States and other major markets. We expect our operating expenses to increase significantly in the foreseeable future, and we may not achieve profitability. If we are unable to attract or maintain a critical mass of Drivers, consumers, merchants, shippers, and carriers, whether as a result of competition or other factors, our platform will become less appealing to platform users. Our workplace culture and forward-leaning approach created operational, compliance, and cultural challenges and our efforts to address these challenges may not be successful. Maintaining and enhancing our brand and reputation is critical to our business prospects. We have previously received significant media coverage and negative publicity regarding our brand and reputation, and a failure to rehabilitate our brand and reputation will cause our business to suffer. If we are unable to optimize our organizational structure or effectively manage our growth, our financial performance and future prospects will be adversely affected. 11 Platform users may engage in, or be subject to, criminal, violent, inappropriate, or dangerous activity that results in major safety incidents, which may harm our ability to attract and retain Drivers, consumers, merchants, shippers, and carriers. We are making substantial investments in new offerings and technologies, and may increase such investments in the future. These new ventures are inherently risky, and we may never realize any expected benefits from them. We generate a significant percentage of our Gross Bookings from trips in large metropolitan areas, and these operations may be negatively affected by economic, social, weather, and regulatory conditions or other circumstances, including COVID-19. We may fail to offer autonomous vehicle technologies on our platform, fail to offer such technologies on our platform before our competitors, or such technologies may fail to perform as expected, may be inferior to those of our competitors, or may be perceived as less safe than those of our competitors or non-autonomous vehicles. Our business depends on retaining and attracting high-quality personnel, and continued attrition, future attrition, or unsuccessful succession planning could adversely affect our business. We may experience security or data privacy breaches or other unauthorized or improper access to, use of, alteration of or destruction of our proprietary or confidential data, employee data, or platform user data. Cyberattacks, computer malware, viruses, spamming, and phishing attacks could harm our reputation, business, and operating results. We rely on third parties maintaining open marketplaces to distribute our platform and to provide the software we use in certain of our products and offerings. If such third parties interfere with the distribution of our products or offerings or with our use of such software, our business would be adversely affected. We will require additional capital to support the growth of our business, and this capital might not be available on reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to successfully identify, acquire and integrate suitable businesses, our operating results and prospects could be harmed, and any businesses we acquire may not perform as expected or be effectively integrated. We may continue to be blocked from or limited in providing or operating our products and offerings in certain jurisdictions, and may be required to modify our business model in those jurisdictions as a result. Our business is subject to numerous legal and regulatory risks that could have an adverse impact on our business and future prospects. Our business is subject to extensive government regulation and oversight relating to the provision of payment and financial services. We face risks related to our collection, use, transfer, disclosure, and other processing of data, which could result in investigations, inquiries, litigation, fines, legislative and regulatory action, and negative press about our privacy and data protection practices. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, or if third parties are successful in claiming that we are misappropriating the intellectual property of others, we may incur significant expense and our business may be adversely affected. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile or may decline steeply or suddenly regardless of our operating performance, and we may not be able to meet investor or analyst expectations. You may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid and may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business General Economic Risks The novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and the impact of actions to mitigate the pandemic has adversely impacted and could continue to adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of COVID-19 a pandemic. In an attempt to limit the spread of the virus, various governmental restrictions, including the declaration of a federal National Emergency, multiple cities and states declarations of states of emergency, school and business closings, quarantines, shelter at home orders, restrictions on travel, limitations on social or public gatherings, and other social distancing measures have, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on our business and operations, including, for example, by reducing the demand for our Mobility offerings globally, and affecting travel behavior and demand. In addition, certain U.S. jurisdictions have issued emergency orders that require us to cap fees charged to merchants on Delivery. Furthermore, to support social distancing, we have temporarily suspended UberPOOL, our shared rides offering, globally. In addition, we announced and implemented several COVID-related initiatives during the first quarter of 2020, including a financial assistance program for Drivers, as well as a commitment to provide 10 million free rides and food deliveries to healthcare 12 workers, seniors, and others in need. Furthermore, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we asked that all employees who are able to do so work remotely, and while we have since re-opened certain offices, it is possible that continued widespread remote work arrangements could have a negative impact on our operations, the execution of our business plans, and productivity and availability of key personnel and other employees necessary to conduct our business, and of third-party service providers who perform critical services for us, or otherwise cause operational failures due to changes in our normal business practices necessitated by the outbreak and related governmental actions. If a natural disaster, power outage, connectivity issue, or other event occurred that impacted our employees ability to work remotely, it may be difficult or, in certain cases, impossible, for us to continue our business for a substantial period of time. The increase in remote working may also result in privacy, cybersecurity and fraud risks, and our understanding of applicable legal and regulatory requirements, as well as the latest guidance from regulatory authorities in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic, may be subject to legal or regulatory challenge, particularly as regulatory guidance evolves in response to future developments. In addition, in response to the economic challenges and uncertainty resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on our business, in May 2020 we announced reductions in workforce of approximately 6,700 full-time employee roles. We have responded to the COVID-19 pandemic by launching new, or expanding existing, services, features, or health and safety requirements on an expedited basis, particularly those relating to delivery of food and other goods. Our understanding of applicable privacy, consumer protection and other legal and regulatory requirements, as well as the latest guidance from regulatory authorities in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic, may be subject to legal or regulatory challenge, particularly as regulatory guidance evolves in response to future developments. In addition, our launch of new, or expanding existing, services, features, or health and safety requirements in response to COVID-19 may heighten other risks described in this Risk Factors section, including our classification of Drivers. These challenges could result in fines or other enforcement measures that could adversely impact our financial results or operations. The COVID-19 pandemic has adversely affected our near-term financial results and may adversely impact our long-term financial results, which has required and may continue to require significant actions in response, including but not limited to, additional reductions in workforce and certain changes to pricing models of our offerings, all in an effort to mitigate such impacts. In light of the evolving nature of COVID-19 and the uncertainty it has produced around the world, we do not believe it is possible to predict with precision the pandemics cumulative and ultimate impact on our future business operations, liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. The extent of the impact of the pandemic on our business and financial results will depend largely on future developments, including the duration of the spread of the outbreak and any future waves or resurgences of the outbreak or variants of the virus, both globally and within the United States, the impact on capital and financial markets, foreign currencies exchange, governmental or regulatory orders that impact our business and whether the impacts may result in permanent changes to our end-users behaviors, all of which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. Moreover, even after shelter at home orders and travel advisories are lifted, demand for our Mobility offering may remain weak for a significant length of time and we cannot predict when and if our Mobility offering will return to pre-COVID-19 demand levels. Although the FDA approved the first two vaccines for COVID-19 in December 2020 and other countries have also approved vaccines, at this time, we cannot predict the timing of widespread adoption of vaccines against COVID-19 in the United States or internationally, nor their potential impact on our lines of business. In addition, we cannot predict the impact the COVID-19 pandemic will have on our business partners and third-party vendors, and we may be adversely impacted as a result of the adverse impact our business partners and third-party vendors suffer. Additionally, concerns over the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic have caused extreme volatility in financial markets, which has and may continue to adversely impact our stock price and our ability to access capital markets. To the extent the COVID-19 pandemic adversely affects our business and financial results, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in this Risk Factors section. Any of the foregoing factors, or other cascading effects of the pandemic that are not currently foreseeable, could adversely impact our business, financial performance and condition, and results of operations. Operational Risks Our business would be adversely affected if Drivers were classified as employees, workers or quasi-employees. The classification of Drivers is currently being challenged in courts, by legislators and by government agencies in the United States and abroad. We are involved in numerous legal proceedings globally, including putative class and collective class action lawsuits, demands for arbitration, charges and claims before administrative agencies, and investigations or audits by labor, social security, and tax authorities that claim that Drivers should be treated as our employees (or as workers or quasi-employees where those statuses exist), rather than as independent contractors. We believe that Drivers are independent contractors because, among other things, they can choose whether, when, and where to provide services on our platform, are free to provide services on our competitors platforms, and provide a vehicle to perform services on our platform. Nevertheless, we may not be successful in defending the classification of Drivers in some or all jurisdictions. Furthermore, the costs associated with defending, settling, or resolving pending and future lawsuits (including demands for arbitration) relating to the classification of Drivers have been and may continue to be material to our business. For example, in 2020, we paid $20 million (pursuant to a settlement agreement entered into in 2019) to settle 13 class actions in which Drivers who contracted with us in California and Massachusetts but with whom we had not entered into arbitration agreements, sought damages against us based on misclassification, among other claims. In addition, more than 100,000 Drivers in the United States who have entered into arbitration agreements with us have filed (or expressed an intention to file) arbitration demands against us that assert similar classification claims. We have resolved the classification claims of a majority of these Drivers under individual settlement agreements, pursuant to which we have paid approximately $155 million as of December 31, 2020. Furthermore, we are involved in numerous legal proceedings regarding the enforceability of arbitration agreements entered into with Drivers. If we are not successful in such proceedings, this could negatively impact the enforceability of arbitration agreements in other legal proceedings, which could have an adverse consequence on our business and financial condition. Changes to foreign, state, and local laws governing the definition or classification of independent contractors, or judicial decisions regarding independent contractor classification, could require classification of Drivers as employees (or workers or quasi-employees where those statuses exist) and/or representation of Drivers by labor unions. For example, Californias Assembly Bill 5 codified application of what has been commonly referred to as the ABC Test to the entire California Labor Code, California Wage Orders, and the Unemployment Insurance Code and became effective as of January 1, 2020. Government authorities and private plaintiffs have brought litigation asserting that Assembly Bill 5 requires Drivers in California to be classified as employees. For example, in May 2020, the California Attorney General, in conjunction with the city attorneys for San Francisco, Los Angeles and San Diego, filed a complaint in San Francisco Superior Court against Uber and Lyft, alleging that drivers are misclassified, and sought an injunction and monetary damages related to the alleged competitive advantage caused by the alleged misclassification of drivers. On August 10, 2020, following a hearing on the matter, the San Francisco Superior Court issued a preliminary injunction enjoining Uber and Lyft from classifying drivers as independent contractors during the pendency of the lawsuit. We appealed the decision and sought a stay of the preliminary injunction. On August 20, 2020, the California Court of Appeal granted an emergency stay of the injunction while an expedited appeal of the preliminary injunction decision is considered. On October 22, 2020, the California Court of Appeal affirmed the lower courts ruling and held that we must comply with the preliminary injunction order no later than 30 days after the case is returned to the trial court. We filed a Petition for Review to the California Supreme Court on December 1, 2020, which was denied. In November 2020, California voters approved Proposition 22, a California state ballot initiative that provides a framework for drivers that use platforms like ours for independent work. Proposition 22 went into effect in December 2020 and we expect that Drivers will be able to maintain their status as independent contractors under California law and that we and our competitors will be required to comply with the provisions of Proposition 22. Although we do not expect that the California Attorney Generals preliminary injunction will go into effect, that litigation remains pending, and we intend to move to dissolve the preliminary injunction. We also may face liability relating to periods before the effective date of Proposition 22. In addition, in January 2021, a petition was filed with the California Supreme Court by several drivers and a labor union alleging that Proposition 22 is unconstitutional, which was denied. The same drivers and labor union have since filed a similar challenge in California Superior Court, and it is possible that other legal challenges to Proposition 22 could be filed. We face similar challenges in other jurisdictions. For example, in July 2020, the Massachusetts Attorney General filed a complaint against Uber and Lyft, alleging that drivers are misclassified, and seeking an injunction. If we do not prevail in current litigation or similar actions that may be brought in the future, we may be required to treat Drivers as employees and/or make other changes to our business model in certain jurisdictions. If, as a result of legislation or judicial decisions, we are required to classify Drivers as employees, we would incur significant additional expenses for compensating Drivers, including expenses associated with the application of wage and hour laws (including minimum wage, overtime, and meal and rest period requirements), employee benefits, social security contributions, taxes (direct and indirect), and potential penalties. In this case, we anticipate significant price increases for Riders to offset these additional costs; however, we believe that the financial impact to Uber would be moderated by the likelihood of all competitors raising prices. Additionally, we may not have adequate Driver supply as Drivers may opt out of our platform given the loss of flexibility under an employment model, and we may not be able to hire a majority of the Drivers currently using our platform. Further, any such reclassification would require us to fundamentally change our business model, and consequently have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. In addition, reclassification of Drivers as employees, workers or quasi-employees where those statuses exist, could lead to groups of Drivers becoming represented by labor unions and similar organizations. If a significant number of Drivers were to become unionized and collective bargaining agreement terms were to deviate significantly from our business model, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In addition, a labor dispute involving Drivers may harm our reputation, disrupt our operations and reduce our net revenues, and the resolution of labor disputes may increase our costs. In addition, if we are required to classify Drivers as employees, workers or quasi-employees, this may impact our current financial statement presentation including revenue, cost of revenue, incentives and promotions as further described in our significant and critical accounting policies in the section titled Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates included in Part I, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and Note 1 in the section titled Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We cannot predict whether legislation similar to Assembly Bill 5 may be enacted elsewhere. Other examples of recent judicial 14 decisions relating to Driver classification include the Aslam, Farrar, Hoy and Mithu v. Uber B.V., et al. ruling by the Employment Appeal Tribunal in the United Kingdom, subsequently upheld by the UK Supreme Court, that found that those Drivers were workers (rather than self-employed), a decision by the French Supreme Court that a driver for a third-party meal delivery service was under a subordinate relationship of the service, indicating an employment relationship, a decision by the French Supreme Court that reclassified an UberX Driver as an employee, and decisions by several Swiss governmental bodies ruling that Drivers should be classified as employees for Swiss social security or regulatory purposes. The mobility, delivery, and logistics industries are highly competitive, with well-established and low-cost alternatives that have been available for decades, low barriers to entry, low switching costs, and well-capitalized competitors in nearly every major geographic region. If we are unable to compete effectively in these industries, our business and financial prospects would be adversely impacted. Our platform provides offerings in the mobility, delivery, and logistics industries. We compete on a global basis, and the markets in which we compete are highly fragmented. We face significant competition in each of the mobility and delivery industries globally and in the logistics industry in the United States and Canada from existing, well-established, and low-cost alternatives, and in the future we expect to face competition from new market entrants given the low barriers to entry that characterize these industries. In addition, within each of these markets, the cost to switch between products is low. Consumers have a propensity to shift to the lowest-cost or highest-quality provider; Drivers have a propensity to shift to the platform with the highest earnings potential; restaurants have a propensity to shift to the delivery platform that offers the lowest service fee for their meals and provides the highest volume of orders; and shippers and carriers have a propensity to shift to the platform with the best price and most convenient service for hauling shipments. Further, while we work to expand globally and introduce new products and offerings across a range of industries, many of our competitors remain focused on a limited number of products or on a narrow geographic scope, allowing them to develop specialized expertise and employ resources in a more targeted manner than we do. As we and our competitors introduce new products and offerings, and as existing products evolve, we expect to become subject to additional competition. In addition, our competitors may adopt certain of our product features, or may adopt innovations that Drivers, consumers, merchants, shippers, and carriers value more highly than ours, which would render our products less attractive or reduce our ability to differentiate our products. Increased competition could result in, among other things, a reduction of the revenue we generate from the use of our platform, the number of platform users, the frequency of use of our platform, and our margins. We face competition in each of our offerings, including: Mobility . Our Mobility offering competes with personal vehicle ownership and usage, which accounts for the majority of passenger miles in the markets that we serve, and traditional transportation services, including taxicab companies and taxi-hailing services, livery and other car services. In addition, public transportation can be a superior substitute to our Mobility offering and in many cases, offers a faster and lower-cost travel option in many cities. We also compete with other ridesharing companies, including certain of our minority-owned affiliates, for Drivers and riders, including Lyft, OLA, Didi, Bolt, and our Yandex.Taxi joint venture. Delivery . Our Delivery offering competes with numerous companies in the meal, grocery and other delivery space in various regions for Drivers, consumers, and merchants, including GrubHub, DoorDash, Deliveroo, Glovo, Rappi, iFood, Delivery Hero, Just Eat Takeaway, and Amazon. Our Delivery offering also competes with restaurants, including those that offer their own delivery and/or take-away (such as Dominos), meal kit delivery services, grocery delivery services, and traditional grocers. Freight. Our Freight offering competes with global and North American freight brokers such as C.H. Robinson, Total Quality Logistics, XPO Logistics, Convoy, Echo Global Logistics, Coyote, Transfix, DHL, and NEXT Trucking. In May 2020, we divested certain assets of our dockless e-bikes and scooters business to Lime and concurrently entered into a commercial partnership with Lime. In December 2020, we announced that we entered into a definitive agreement in connection with the ATG Transactions. In January 2021, we completed the sale of Apparate USA LLC, our subsidiary focused on the development and commercialization of autonomous vehicles technologies, to Aurora Innovation, Inc. (Aurora) and made a $400 million cash investment in Aurora and entered into a collaboration agreement with Aurora pursuant to which the parties will collaborate with respect to the launch and commercialization of self-driving vehicles on our ridesharing network (the ATG Transactions). Many of our competitors are well-capitalized and offer discounted services, Driver incentives, consumer discounts and promotions, innovative products and offerings, and alternative pricing models, which may be more attractive to consumers than those that we offer. Further, some of our current or potential competitors have, and may in the future continue to have, greater resources and access to larger Driver, consumer, merchant, shipper, or carrier bases in a particular geographic market. In addition, our competitors in certain geographic markets enjoy substantial competitive advantages such as greater brand recognition, longer operating histories, larger marketing budgets, better localized knowledge, and more supportive regulatory regimes. As a result, such competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than us in such markets to new or changing opportunities, technologies, consumer preferences, regulations, or standards, which may render our products or offerings less attractive. In addition, future competitors may 15 share in the effective benefit of any regulatory or governmental approvals and litigation victories we may achieve, without having to incur the costs we have incurred to obtain such benefits. We are contractually restricted from competing with our minority-owned affiliates with respect to certain aspects of our business, including in China through August 2023, Russia/CIS through February 2025, Southeast Asia through the later of March 2023 or one year after we dispose of all interests in Grab, India with respect to meal delivery through January 2023, the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and certain parts of Europe with respect to e-bikes and e-scooters through May 2023, the European Economic Area (the EEA) with respect to digital freight forwarding through April 2023, and the United States with respect to electric vertical take-off and landing (eVTOL) aircraft through January 2023, while none of our minority-owned affiliates are restricted from competing with us anywhere in the world. Didi currently competes with us in certain countries in Latin America and in Australia. In addition, our Yandex.Taxi joint venture currently competes with us in certain countries in Europe and Africa. As Didi and our other minority-owned affiliates continue to expand their businesses, they may in the future compete with us in additional geographic markets. In addition, we are contractually restricted from competing with some of our majority-owned affiliates with respect to certain aspects of our business, including competing against Uber Freight with respect to freight brokerage, and competing against Cornershop with respect to online grocery delivery. Additionally, if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval of our acquisitions, we may not ultimately consummate the transaction in such jurisdictions where antitrust approval is not obtained. Further, in all or such jurisdictions where antitrust approval has not been granted, we may be required to divest all or part of our or the target companys operations. Any such divestiture could bring additional competition to these markets. For all of these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors. Our inability to compete effectively would have an adverse effect on, or otherwise harm, our business, financial condition, and operating results. To remain competitive in certain markets, we have in the past lowered, are currently lowering, and may continue to lower, fares or service fees, and we have in the past offered, and may continue to offer, significant Driver incentives and consumer discounts and promotions, which has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our financial performance. To remain competitive in certain markets and generate network scale and liquidity, we have in the past lowered, and expect in the future to continue to lower, fares or service fees, and we have offered and expect to continue to offer significant Driver incentives and consumer discounts and promotions. At times, in certain geographic markets, we have offered, and expect to continue to offer, Driver incentives that cause the total amount of the fare that a Driver retains, combined with the Driver incentives a Driver receives from us, to increase, at times meeting or exceeding the amount of Gross Bookings we generate for a given Trip. In certain geographic markets and regions, we do not have a leading category position, which may result in us choosing to further increase the amount of Driver incentives and consumer discounts and promotions that we offer in those geographic markets and regions. We cannot assure you that offering such Driver incentives and consumer discounts and promotions will be successful. Driver incentives, consumer discounts, promotions, and reductions in fares and our service fee have negatively affected, and will continue to negatively affect, our financial performance. Additionally, we rely on pricing models to calculate consumer fares and Driver earnings, which have been modified over time and will likely in the future be modified, and pricing models at times vary based upon jurisdiction. We cannot assure you that our pricing models or strategies will be successful in attracting consumers and Drivers. For example, recent changes we have made in California to the information that Drivers see in the application, as well as pricing and offer structure changes, have adversely impacted usage of the application. If we are unable to successfully manage these and similar kinds of changes in the future, our business may be adversely impacted. The markets in which we compete have attracted significant investments from a wide range of funding sources, and we anticipate that many of our competitors will continue to be highly capitalized. Moreover, certain of our stockholders, including SoftBank (our largest stockholder), have made substantial investments in certain of our competitors and may increase such investments, make new investments in other competitors, or enter into strategic transactions with competitors in the future. These investments or strategic transactions, along with other competitive advantages discussed above, may allow our competitors to compete more effectively against us and continue to lower their prices, offer Driver incentives or consumer discounts and promotions, or otherwise attract Drivers, consumers, merchants, shippers, and carriers to their platform and away from ours. Such competitive pressures may lead us to maintain or lower fares or service fees or maintain or increase our Driver incentives and consumer discounts and promotions. Ridesharing and other categories in which we compete are nascent, and we cannot guarantee that they will stabilize at a competitive equilibrium that will allow us to achieve profitability. We have incurred significant losses since inception, including in the United States and other major markets. We expect our operating expenses to increase significantly in the foreseeable future, and we may not achieve profitability. We have incurred significant losses since inception. We incurred operating losses of $3.0 billion, $8.6 billion and $4.9 billion in the years ended December 31, 2018, 2019 and 2020, and as of December 31, 2020, we had an accumulated deficit of $23.1 billion. We will need to generate and sustain increased revenue levels and decrease proportionate expenses in future periods to achieve profitability in many of our largest markets, including in the United States, and even if we do, we may not be able to maintain or increase profitability. We anticipate that we will continue to incur losses in the near term as a result of expected substantial increases in our operating expenses, as we continue to invest in order to: increase the number of Drivers, consumers, merchants, shippers, and 16 carriers using our platform through incentives, discounts, and promotions; expand within existing or into new markets; increase our research and development expenses; expand marketing channels and operations; hire additional employees; and add new products and offerings to our platform. These efforts may prove more expensive than we anticipate, and we may not succeed in increasing our revenue sufficiently to offset these expenses. Many of our efforts to generate revenue are new and unproven, and any failure to adequately increase revenue or contain the related costs could prevent us from attaining or increasing profitability. In addition, we sometimes introduce new products that we expect to add value to our overall platform and network but which we expect will generate lower Gross Bookings per Trip or a lower Take Rate. Further, we charge a lower service fee to certain of our largest chain restaurant partners on our Delivery offering to grow the number of Delivery consumers, which may at times result in a negative take rate with respect to those transactions after considering amounts collected from consumers and paid to Drivers. As we expand our offerings to additional cities, our offerings in these cities may be less profitable than the markets in which we currently operate. As such, we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability in the near term, in accordance with our expectations, or at all. Additionally, we may not realize the operating efficiencies we expect to achieve as a result of our acquisition of Careem and Postmates, and may continue to incur significant operating losses in the United States, Middle East, North Africa, and Pakistan in the future. Even if we do experience operating efficiencies, our operating results may not improve, at least in the near term. If we are unable to attract or maintain a critical mass of Drivers, consumers, merchants, shippers, and carriers, whether as a result of competition or other factors, our platform will become less appealing to platform users, and our financial results would be adversely impacted. Our success in a given geographic market significantly depends on our ability to maintain or increase our network scale and liquidity in that geographic market by attracting Drivers, consumers, merchants, shippers, and carriers to our platform. If Drivers choose not to offer their services through our platform, or elect to offer them through a competitors platform, we may lack a sufficient supply of Drivers to attract consumers and merchants to our platform. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience Driver supply constraints in most geographic markets in which we operate, and such supply constraints have been and may continue to be impacted by concerns regarding the outbreak of COVID-19. To the extent that we experience Driver supply constraints in a given market, we may need to increase or may not be able to reduce the Driver incentives that we offer without adversely affecting the liquidity network effect that we experience in that market. Similarly, if carriers choose not to offer their services through our platform or elect to use other freight brokers, we may lack a sufficient supply of carriers in specific geographic markets to attract shippers to our platform. Furthermore, if restaurants choose to partner with other meal delivery services in a specific geographic market, or if merchants choose to engage exclusively with our competitors, other merchant marketing websites, or other delivery services, we may lack a sufficient variety and supply of restaurant options, or lack access to the most popular restaurants, such that our Delivery offering will become less appealing to consumers and restaurants. A significant amount of our Delivery Gross Bookings come from a limited number of large restaurant groups, and this concentration increases the risk of fluctuations in our operating results and our sensitivity to any material adverse developments experienced by our significant restaurant partners. If platform users choose to use other ridesharing, meal delivery, or logistics services, we may lack sufficient opportunities for Drivers to earn a fare, carriers to book a shipment, or restaurants to provide a meal, which may reduce the perceived utility of our platform. An insufficient supply of platform users would decrease our network liquidity and adversely affect our revenue and financial results. Although we may benefit from having larger network scale and liquidity than some competitors, those network effects may not result in competitive advantages or may be overcome by smaller competitors. Maintaining a balance between supply and demand for rides in any given area at any given time and our ability to execute operationally may be more important to service quality than the absolute size of the network. If our service quality diminishes or our competitors products achieve greater market adoption, our competitors may be able to grow at a quicker rate than we do and may diminish our network effect. Our number of platform users may decline materially or fluctuate as a result of many factors, including, among other things, dissatisfaction with the operation of our platform, the price of fares, meals, and shipments (including a reduction in incentives), dissatisfaction with the quality of service provided by the Drivers and merchants on our platform, quality of platform user support, dissatisfaction with the restaurant selection on Delivery, negative publicity related to our brand, including as a result of safety incidents and corporate reporting related to safety, perceived political or geopolitical affiliations, a pandemic or an outbreak of disease or similar public health concern, such as the current COVID-19 pandemic, or fear of such an event, treatment of Drivers, perception of a toxic work culture, perception that our culture has not fundamentally changed, dissatisfaction with changes we make to our products and offerings, or dissatisfaction with our products and offerings in general. In addition, if we are unable to provide high-quality support to platform users or respond to reported incidents, including safety incidents, in a timely and acceptable manner, our ability to attract and retain platform users could be adversely affected. If Drivers, consumers, merchants, shippers, and carriers do not establish or maintain active accounts with us, if a social media or other campaign encouraging users to cease use of our platform takes hold, if we fail to provide high-quality support, or if we cannot otherwise attract and retain a large number of Drivers, consumers, merchants, shippers, and carriers, our revenue would decline, and our business would suffer. The number of Drivers and merchants on our platform could decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including Drivers ceasing to provide their services through our platform, passage or enforcement of local laws limiting our products and offerings, the low switching costs between competitor platforms or services, and dissatisfaction with our brand or reputation, pricing models (including potential reductions in incentives), ability to prevent safety incidents, or other aspects of our business. While we aim to provide an earnings opportunity comparable to that available in retail, wholesale, or merchant services or other similar work, 17 we continue to experience dissatisfaction with our platform from a significant number of Drivers. In particular, as we aim to reduce Driver incentives to improve our financial performance, we expect Driver dissatisfaction will generally increase. Often, we are forced to make tradeoffs between the satisfaction of various platform users, as a change that one category of users views as positive will likely be viewed as negative to another category of users. We also take certain measures to protect against fraud, help increase safety, and prevent privacy and security breaches, including terminating access to our platform for users with low ratings or reported incidents, and imposing certain qualifications for Drivers and merchants, which may damage our relationships with platform users or discourage or diminish their use of our platform. Further, we are investing in our autonomous vehicle strategy, which may add to Driver dissatisfaction over time, as it may reduce the need for Drivers. Driver dissatisfaction has in the past resulted in protests by Drivers in various regions, including India, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Such protests have resulted, and any future protests may result, in interruptions to our business. Continued Driver dissatisfaction may also result in a decline in our number of platform users, which would reduce our network liquidity, and which in turn may cause a further decline in platform usage. Any decline in the number of Drivers, consumers, merchants, shippers, or carriers using our platform would reduce the value of our network and would harm our future operating results. In addition, changes in Driver qualification and background-check requirements may increase our costs and reduce our ability to onboard additional Drivers to our platform. Our Driver qualification and background check process varies by jurisdiction, and there have been allegations, including from regulators, legislators, prosecutors, taxicab owners, and consumers, that our background check process is insufficient or inadequate. With respect to Drivers who are only eligible to make deliveries through Delivery, our qualification and background check standards are generally less extensive than the standards for Drivers who are eligible to provide rides through our Mobility products. Legislators and regulators may pass laws or adopt regulations in the future requiring Drivers to undergo a materially different type of qualification, screening, or background check process, or that limit our ability to access information used in the background check process in an efficient manner, which could be costly and time-consuming. Required changes in the qualification, screening, and background check process (including any changes to such processes of Careem or Postmates) could also reduce the number of Drivers in those markets or extend the time required to recruit new Drivers to our platform, which would adversely impact our business and growth. Furthermore, we rely on a single background-check provider in certain jurisdictions, and we may not be able to arrange for adequate background checks from a different provider on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The failure of this provider to provide background checks on a timely basis would result in our inability to onboard new Drivers or retain existing Drivers undergoing periodic background checks that are required to continue using our platform. Our workplace culture and forward-leaning approach created operational, compliance, and cultural challenges, and a failure to address these challenges would adversely impact our business, financial condition, operating results, and prospects. Our workplace culture and forward-leaning approach created significant operational and cultural challenges that have in the past harmed, and may in the future continue to harm, our business results and financial condition. Our focus on aggressive growth and intense competition, and our prior failure to prioritize compliance, has led to increased regulatory scrutiny globally. Changes in our companys cultural norms and composition of our leadership team, together with our ongoing commitment to address and resolve our historical cultural and compliance problems and promote transparency and collaboration, may not be successful, and regulators may continue to perceive us negatively, which would adversely impact our business, financial condition, operating results, and prospects. Our workplace culture also created a lack of transparency internally, which has resulted in siloed teams that lack coordination and knowledge sharing, causing misalignment and inefficiencies in operational and strategic objectives. Although we have embraced a culture of enhanced transparency under our new management, these efforts may not be successful. Furthermore, many of our regional operations are not centrally managed, such that key policies may not be adequately communicated or managed to achieve consistent business objectives across functions and regions. Although we have reorganized some of our teams to address such issues, such reorganizations may not be successful in aligning operational or strategic objectives across our company. Maintaining and enhancing our brand and reputation is critical to our business prospects. We have previously received significant media coverage and negative publicity regarding our brand and reputation, and failure to rehabilitate our brand and reputation will cause our business to suffer. Maintaining and enhancing our brand and reputation is critical to our ability to attract new employees and platform users, to preserve and deepen the engagement of our existing employees and platform users, and to mitigate legislative or regulatory scrutiny, litigation, government investigations, and adverse platform user sentiment. We have previously received a high degree of negative media coverage around the world, which has adversely affected our brand and reputation and fueled distrust of our company. Previous negative publicity, particularly as a result of cultural issues in 2017, has adversely affected our brand and reputation, which makes it difficult for us to attract and retain platform users, reduces confidence in and use of our products and offerings, invites legislative and regulatory scrutiny, and results in litigation and governmental investigations. Concurrently with and after these events, our competitors raised additional capital, increased their investments in certain markets, and improved their category positions and market shares, and may continue to do so. In 2019, we released a safety report, which provides the public with data related to reports of sexual assaults and other critical 18 safety incidents claimed to have occurred on our platform in the United States. The continuing public responses to this safety report or any future safety reports or similar public reporting of safety incidents claimed to have occurred on our platform, which may include disclosure of reports provided to regulators and other government authorities, may continue to result in positive and negative media coverage and increased regulatory scrutiny and could adversely affect our reputation with platform users. Further unfavorable media coverage and negative publicity could adversely impact our financial results and future prospects. As our platform continues to scale and becomes increasingly interconnected, resulting in increased media coverage and public awareness of our brand, future damage to our brand and reputation could have an amplified effect on our various platform offerings. Additionally, with respect to our acquisition of Careem and our acquisition of Postmates, the Careem and Postmates brands and each of its apps will continue to operate in parallel with our brand and apps, and any damage or reputational harm to the Careem or Postmates brand could adversely impact our brand and reputation. Our brand and reputation might also be harmed by events outside of our control. For example, we have licensed our brand to Didi in China, to our Yandex.Taxi joint venture in Russia/CIS, and to Zomato in India, and while we have certain contractual protections in place governing the use of our brand by these companies, we do not control these businesses, we are not able to anticipate their actions, and consumers may not be aware that these service providers are not controlled by us. Furthermore, if Drivers, merchants, or carriers provide diminished quality of service, are involved in incidents regarding safety or privacy, engage in malfeasance, or otherwise violate the law, we may receive unfavorable press coverage and our reputation and business may be harmed. As a result, any of these third parties could take actions that result in harm to our brand, reputation, and consequently our business. While we have taken significant steps to rehabilitate our brand and reputation, the successful rehabilitation of our brand will depend largely on maintaining a good reputation, minimizing the number of safety incidents, improving our culture and workplace practices, improving our compliance programs, maintaining a high quality of service and ethical behavior, and continuing our marketing and public relations efforts. Our brand promotion, reputation building, and media strategies have involved significant costs and may not be successful. We anticipate that other competitors and potential competitors will expand their offerings, which will make maintaining and enhancing our reputation and brand increasingly more difficult and expensive. If we fail to successfully rehabilitate our brand in the current or future competitive environment or if events occur in the future which negatively affect public perception of our company, our brand and reputation would be further damaged and our business may suffer. Our workforce and operations have grown substantially since our inception and we have implemented several reductions in workforce in 2019 and 2020. If we are unable to optimize our organizational structure or effectively manage our growth or any reductions in workforce, our financial performance and future prospects will be adversely affected. Since our inception, we have experienced rapid growth in the United States and internationally. This expansion increases the complexity of our business and has placed, and will continue to place, significant strain on our management, personnel, operations, systems, technical performance, financial resources, and internal financial control and reporting functions. We may not be able to manage our growth effectively, which could damage our reputation and negatively affect our operating results. As our operations have expanded, we have grown from 159 employees as of December 31, 2012 to approximately 22,800 global employees as of December 31, 2020, of whom approximately 12,400 were located outside the United States. We expect the total number of our employees located outside the United States to increase as we expand globally. Properly managing our growth will require us to continue to hire, train, and manage qualified employees and staff, including engineers, operations personnel, financial and accounting staff, and sales and marketing staff, and to improve and maintain our technology. If our new hires perform poorly, if we are unsuccessful in hiring, training, managing, and integrating new employees and staff, or if we are not successful in retaining our existing employees and staff, our business may be harmed. Moreover, in order to optimize our organizational structure, we have implemented several reductions in workforce and restructurings, including in response to the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on our business, and may in the future implement other reductions in workforce. Any reduction in workforce or restructuring may yield unintended consequences and costs, such as attrition beyond the intended reduction in workforce, the distraction of employees, or reduced employee morale and could adversely affect our reputation as an employer, which could make it more difficult for us to hire new employees in the future and increase the risk that we may not achieve the anticipated benefits from the reduction in workforce. Properly managing our growth or any reductions in workforce will require us to establish consistent policies across regions and functions, and a failure to do so could likewise harm our business. Our failure to upgrade our technology or network infrastructure effectively to support our growth could result in unanticipated system disruptions, slow response times, or poor experiences for Drivers, consumers, merchants, shippers, and carriers. To manage the growth of our operations and personnel and improve the technology that supports our business operations, as well as our financial and management systems, disclosure