Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q and our audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes and the discussion under the heading "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021 included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021, which was originally filed with the SEC on March 25, 2022 . In addition to historical consolidated financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates, and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. You should review the sections titled Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements for a discussion of forward-looking statements and in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors for a discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. Overview Our mission is to create new possibilities for people and organizations everywhere by connecting them to the knowledge and skills they need to succeed in a changing world. Our marketplace platform, with thousands of up-to-date courses in dozens of languages, provides the tools that learners, instructors, and enterprises need to achieve their goals and reach their full potential. We believe traditional education and training methods are fast becoming outdated. Technological advancements and novel industries have significantly altered the types of skills required of workers, and lifelong training and continuous skills acquisition are becoming the norm. There is a clear need to expand access to learning across traditional barriers such as geography and social demographics. Udemy operates a two-sided marketplace where our instructors develop content to meet learner demand. Courses can be accessed through our direct-to-consumer or Udemy Business (UB) offerings. Our platform provides 52 million learners with access to 196,000 courses in over 75 languages and 180 countries. Udemy courses address learning objectives such as reskilling or upskilling in technology and business, enhancing soft skills, and personal development. We analyze platform data to better determine our learners needs, helping us match individuals with relevant courses and, within UB, learning paths for a more personalized experience. Our learners also receive access to interactive learning tools such as quizzes, exercises, and instructor questions-and-answers, or Q&A. Within our marketplace and UB catalog, we provide learners with high-quality content by prioritizing courses based on factors such as learner feedback and ratings, topic relevance, content quality, and instructor engagement. Key factors impacting our performance We believe that the growth of our business and our future success are dependent upon many factors. While each of these factors presents significant opportunities for us, these factors also pose challenges that we must successfully address in order to sustain the growth of our business and enhance our results of operations. Ability to attract and engage new learners and Udemy Business customers To grow our business, we must attract new learners and UB customers efficiently and increase engagement on our platform over time. We acquire a substantial portion of our learners via organic channels and also use paid marketing to further enhance the growth of our learner base. Our organic channels include those outside of our paid market efforts, such as a Udemy brand name internet search. Once we bring new learners onto our platform, we work to create a best-in-class experience to encourage engagement and drive learning and career outcomes. 28 Table of Contents Ability to retain and expand our existing learner and customer relationships Our business and results of operations will depend on our ability to continue to drive higher usage of our platform within our existing customer base and our ability to add new customers. Our efforts to grow our existing relationships with our consumer learners are focused on increasing their engagement and converting free learners into buyers. New learners to our platform typically begin to engage with our free courses, which serve as a funnel to grow our total learner base and drive referrals to our paid other offerings. Our efforts to grow our UB offering are focused primarily on corporate and government customers. Historically, we have expanded from individual to department to multi-department to enterprise-wide sales as our value is proven. Building upon this success, we believe a significant opportunity exists for us to acquire new UB customers and expand our existing UB customers use of our platform by identifying new use cases and increasing the size of existing deployments. We often enter into customized contractual arrangements with our UB customers in which we offer more favorable pricing terms in exchange for larger total contract values that accompany larger deployments. As we drive a greater portion of our revenue through our deployments with UB customers, we expect that our revenue will continue to grow significantly, but the price we charge UB customers per seat may decline, which could reduce margins in the future. Ability to source in-demand content from our instructors We believe that learners and UB customers are attracted to Udemy largely because of the high quality and wide selection of content our instructors offer. Continuing to source in-demand content and credentials from our instructors will be an important factor in attracting learners and UB customers and growing our revenue over time. When we offer content as part of the UB and consumer subscription offerings, our instructors agree to contribute such content exclusively through our platform, which we believe demonstrates our ability to increase the value of our platform through unique content. Although we view the breadth and diverse expertise of our instructor base and the content they create as one of our competitive advantages, a significant portion of the most popular content on our platform, and as a result a significant portion of our revenue, is attributable to a limited number of our instructors. We experienced minimal turnover among top instructors during the three months ended March 31, 2022, and 2021. Impact of mix of Consumer and Enterprise segments Our mix of business among our Consumer and Enterprise segments is shifting, and this shift will affect our financial performance. Content costs for our Enterprise segment are lower relative to our Consumer segment. The mix of customer acquisition methods in our Consumer segment will substantially impact our financial performance. We presently expect that revenue from our Enterprise segment will grow faster than our Consumer segment, which will be beneficial to our overall margins. Ability to expand our international footprint We currently generate a significant portion of our revenue outside North America. We see a significant opportunity to expand our offerings into regions with large underserved adult learning populations. We have invested, and plan to continue to invest, in personnel and marketing efforts to support our international growth and expand our international operations as part of our strategy to grow our customer and learner base, particularly among our UB customers. 29 Table of Contents Our investment in growth We are actively investing in our business as we believe that we are only beginning to penetrate our market opportunity, and we intend to continue to invest in our future growth. We anticipate that our operating expenses will increase as we continue to build our sales and marketing efforts, expand our course catalog, expand our employee base, and invest in our technology development. Any investments we make in our sales and marketing organization, in encouraging the development of new content, and in expanding our platform offerings and capabilities, whether organically or through acquisitions, will occur in advance of the benefits from such investments, making it difficult to determine if we are efficiently allocating our resources in these areas. Pace of adoption of cloud-based skill development solutions Our ability to grow our learner base and drive market adoption of our platform is affected by the overall demand for cloud-based skill development solutions. The market for cloud-based skill development is less mature than the market for in-person, instructor-led-training, and potential customers may be slow or unwilling to migrate from these legacy approaches. We believe that as technology becomes increasingly critical to business operations, the need for cloud-based skill development solutions, particularly an integrated enterprise-grade platform such as ours, will increase, and our customer base and the breadth and deployment of usage in our customer base will also increase. However, it is difficult to predict customer adoption rates and demand, the future growth rate and size of the market for cloud-based skill development solutions, or the entry of competitive solutions. Impact of COVID-19 In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of COVID-19 a pandemic. With the COVID-19 pandemic, there has been a significant increase in the adoption of online learning solutions, a trend we believe will continue over the long-term. We believe that this heightened demand for online learning solutions from individuals and businesses contributed in part to the significant increase in revenue we experienced beginning in the second quarter of 2020. However, the full extent of the impact of the pandemic on our business, financial condition, and results of operations depends on future developments that are uncertain and unpredictable, including the duration and scope of the pandemic (including any potential future waves of the pandemic, either domestically or globally); governmental, business, and individual actions that have been and continue to be taken in response to the pandemic, including the availability, adoption, and effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines; the effect on our learners, instructors, and UB customers; disruptions or restrictions on our employees ability to work and travel; the availability and cost to access capital markets; and interruptions related to our cloud networking and mobile app infrastructure that impact our learners, instructors, and customers. We have taken precautionary measures intended to help minimize the risk of COVID-19 to our employees, including transitioning the majority of our employees to remote work and restricting business travel, which have contributed to immaterial decreases in our operating expenses, primarily travel and entertainment expense. We believe that our ability to meet the needs of our customers, end users and instructors has not been materially affected by these precautions. We have not incurred any material increases in our operating expenses as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic impacts our business depends on future developments that are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted at this time. For more information, see Risk factorsRisks related to our business and operationsThe COVID-19 pandemic could affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations in volatile and unpredictable ways. Components of results of operations Revenue We derive revenue from contracts with paid consumer learners and UB customers from access to our online learning platform. We recognize revenue from both our paid consumer learners and UB customers. 30 Table of Contents Consumer revenue consists of individual course content purchases made by individual learners, as well as our consumer subscription offerings. Consumer revenue includes the gross transaction value paid by the learner at checkout, net of (a) actual and estimated refunds and (b) passthrough taxes collected from learners and remitted to governmental authorities. After a successful checkout, consumer learners receive a non-exclusive lifetime license to the digital course content in addition to stand-ready access to the Udemy platform hosting services needed to access the content. Access to the online content on the Udemy platform represents a series of distinct services as we continually provide access to and fulfill our hosting obligation to the learner. This series of distinct services represents a single performance obligation that is satisfied over the estimated service period. Revenue from single course purchases is recognized ratably over the estimated service period, which is four months from the date of enrollment, while revenue from consumer subscriptions is recognized ratably over the contractual subscription term. Enterprise revenue primarily relates to enterprise license subscription contracts with annual or multi-year subscription terms. Enterprise subscriptions are generally billed in advance on a quarterly or annual basis. Subscription revenue excludes any taxes to be remitted to governmental authorities. Access to the Udemy platform represents a series of distinct services as we continually provide access to course content and fulfill our obligation to the UB customer over the subscription term. Because the series of distinct services represents a single performance obligation that is satisfied over time, we recognize revenue ratably over the contractual subscription term. We are the principal with respect to revenue generated from sales to consumer and UB customers as we control the performance obligation and are the primary obligor with respect to delivering access to content to our customers. Cost of revenue Cost of revenue primarily consists of content costs, which are the payments to our instructors. Content costs are driven by the means by which we acquired the learner consuming the content. For courses offered on Udemys consumer marketplace, instructors earn a specific percentage of the net sale amount when a learner purchases the instructors course. For courses offered through Udemy Business or a consumer subscription offering, instructors earn a pro-rata share of a monthly instructor payments pool for that subscription offering. Each month, Udemy calculates the revenue for each subscription offering, with a fixed percentage allocated as an instructor payments pool. Instructors whose content is included in the collection earn a prorated portion of this pool based on the number of minutes of consumption their courses achieved that month. Content costs as a percentage of revenue for our UB and consumer subscription offerings are lower relative to individual course content purchases in our consumer offering. As a result, shifts in the mix between our two offerings is expected to be a significant driver of future changes in gross margin. Content costs are recorded as cost of revenue in the period earned by our instructors. For consumer single course purchases, content costs are incurred at the time of purchase. As consumer course content revenue is recognized ratably over an estimated service period of four months, consumer gross margins are lower in the period of purchase, and higher in the remaining periods of the estimated service period over which revenue is recognized. For our subscription based UB offering, content costs are incurred based on monthly subscription fees, and margins are more stable from period to period. Cost of revenue also includes payment and mobile processing fees, costs associated with hosting digital content, employee related expenses for our customer support organization, including salaries, benefits, stock-based compensation, facilities and other expenses, depreciation of network equipment, amortization of capitalized software, amortization of vendor relationships and developed technologies acquired through business combinations, and the portion of fees paid to certain reseller partners attributable to their providing customer support services to UB customers. We expect cost of revenue to generally decrease as a percentage of revenue as we increase the percentage of revenue derived from our UB offering. 31 Table of Contents Operating expenses Operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses. Personnel costs are the most significant component of our operating expenses and consist of salaries, benefits, bonuses, stock-based compensation, and commissions. Our operating expenses also include allocated costs of facilities, information technology, depreciation, and amortization. Although our operating expenses may fluctuate from period to period, we currently expect our operating expenses to increase in absolute dollars over time. Sales and marketing Our sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of marketing costs, as well as personnel-related costs, including stock-based compensation and costs related to customer and instructor acquisition, customer support efforts, amortization of tradenames and customer relationships acquired through business combinations, and brand marketing. Sales and marketing expenses also consist of costs incurred for hosting and customer support services related to providing our platform to free learners. We expect sales and marketing expenses to increase in absolute dollars as our business grows. In addition, we expect sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenue to vary from period to period but generally decrease over the long term. Research and development Our research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs, including stock-based compensation and costs related to the ongoing management, maintenance, and expansion of features and services offered on our platform. Research and development costs also include contracted services, supplies, and other miscellaneous expenses. We believe that continued investment in our platform is important to our future growth and to maintain and attract learners to our platform. As a result, we expect research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars. In addition, we expect research and development expenses as a percentage of revenue to vary from period to period but generally decrease over the long term. General and administrative Our general and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs, including stock-based compensation and costs related to our executive, legal, finance, and human resources departments, as well as charges for indirect tax reserves, bad debt expense, professional fees, and other corporate expenses. We expect to incur additional expenses as a result of operating as a public company, including costs to comply with the rules and regulations applicable to companies listed on a national securities exchange, costs related to compliance and reporting obligations, and increased expenses for insurance, investor relations, and professional services. We expect general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars as our business grows. In addition, we expect general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue to vary from period to period but generally decrease over the long term. Interest income (expense), net Interest income (expense), net consists primarily of interest income earned on our cash and cash equivalents. Interest income varies each reporting period based on our average balance of cash and cash equivalents during the period and market interest rates. Interest expense consists primarily of interest expense recorded related to certain indirect tax reserves. Interest income and interest expense were each immaterial for the periods presented. Other income (expense), net Other income (expense), net consists primarily of foreign currency transaction gains and losses. 32 Table of Contents Income tax provision Our income tax provision consists primarily of income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We have a full valuation allowance against our U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets as the realization of the full amount of these deferred tax assets is uncertain, including net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits related primarily to research and development. The valuation allowance is driven by our overall loss position, and we will not be able to utilize any of these favorable tax attributes until we are in a taxable income position. When we begin to consistently operate in a taxable income position, we may release portions of the valuation allowance to recognize and use those tax attributes. Until then, we expect to maintain this full valuation allowance until it becomes more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized. Results of operations The following table summarizes our results of operations for the periods presented. The results below are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for future periods. Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands, except per share amounts) Revenue $ 152,223 $ 124,550 Cost of revenue (1)(2) 66,438 57,923 Gross profit 85,785 66,627 Operating expenses (1)(2) Sales and marketing 66,878 53,239 Research and development 22,570 15,413 General and administrative 21,653 14,413 Total operating expenses 111,101 83,065 Loss from operations (25,316) (16,438) Other income (expense) Interest income (expense), net 243 (218) Other expense, net (244) (428) Total other expense, net (1) (646) Net loss before taxes (25,317) (17,084) Income tax provision (332) (905) Net loss attributable to common stockholders (25,649) (17,989) Net loss per share attributable to common stockholders Basic and diluted $ (0.18) $ (0.50) Weighted-average shares used in computing net loss per share attributable to common stockholders Basic and diluted 139,405,294 36,178,304 33 Table of Contents (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Cost of revenue $ 840 $ 300 Sales and marketing 4,137 1,924 Research and development 3,334 2,090 General and administrative 5,031 6,198 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 13,342 $ 10,512 (2) Includes amortization of intangible assets as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Cost of revenue $ 724 $ Sales and marketing 342 Total amortization of intangible assets $ 1,066 $ The following table summarizes our results of operations as a percentage of revenue for each of the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 44 47 Gross profit 56 53 Operating expenses Sales and marketing 44 43 Research and development 15 12 General and administrative 14 12 Total operating expenses 73 67 Loss from operations (17) (14) Other income (expense) Interest income (expense), net Other expense, net Total other expense, net Net loss before taxes (17) (14) Income tax provision (1) Net loss attributable to common stockholders (17) % (15) % 34 Table of Contents Comparison of the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2022 2021 $ % Revenue (in thousands, except percentages) Consumer $ 87,312 $ 87,873 $ (561) (1) % Enterprise 64,911 36,677 28,234 77 % Total revenue $ 152,223 $ 124,550 $ 27,673 22 % Revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was $152.2 million, compared to $124.6 million for the same period in the prior year, which represents an increase of $27.7 million, or 22%. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, Consumer and Enterprise revenue were $87.3 million and $64.9 million respectively, representing 57% and 43% of total revenue, respectively, compared to $87.9 million and $36.7 million, respectively, representing 71%and 29% of total revenue, respectively, for the same period in the prior year. The increase in revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was primarily driven by the significant growth in our UB customer base, which was partially offset by a decrease in Consumer revenue during the same period. For the three months ended March 31, 2022 total Consumer revenue decreased by $0.6 million, or 1%, compared to the same period in the prior year. The decrease in Consumer revenue is primarily due to a 2% decrease in monthly average buyers. There was an immaterial year over year change in revenue recognized during the period deferred from course purchases in the prior fiscal year. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, total Enterprise revenue increased by $28.2 million, or 77%, compared to the same period in the prior year. The increase in Enterprise revenue was primarily driven by an increase in the number of UB customers, as well as an increase in the average deal size per new customer and net expansions in our existing UB customer base. Pricing was not a significant driver of the increase in revenue. Cost of revenue, gross profit and gross margin Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2022 2021 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Cost of revenue $ 66,438 $ 57,923 $ 8,515 15 % Gross profit 85,785 66,627 19,158 29 % Gross margin 56 % 53 % Cost of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was $66.4 million, compared to $57.9 million for the same period in the prior year, which represents an increase of $8.5 million, or 15%. Content costs for the Consumer and Enterprise segments were $32.3 million and $15.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, respectively, compared to $35.1 million and $9.0 million for the same period in the prior year, respectively. Content costs as a percentage of segment revenue for the Consumer and Enterprise segments were 37% and 23% for the three months ended March 31, 2022, respectively, compared to 40% and 25% for the same period in the prior year, respectively. Other than content costs, changes in other costs for our Consumer segment were immaterial between the periods presented. In our Enterprise segment, customer support costs increased by $2.9 million in the three months ended March 31, 2022 as compared to the same period in the prior year. On a consolidated basis, there was an increase of $0.7 million in amortization of capitalized software, an increase of $0.7 million of amortization of intangible assets, and an increase of $0.5 million related to stock-based compensation expense for the three months ended March 31, 2022, when compared to the same period in the prior year. 35 Table of Contents Gross margin was 56% for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to 53% for the same period in the prior year. The increase in gross margin was primarily due to a shift in mix of revenue toward our Enterprise segment, which has comparatively lower content costs as a percentage of revenue relative to the Consumer segment. Operating expenses Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2022 2021 $ % Operating expenses (in thousands, except percentages) Sales and marketing $ 66,878 $ 53,239 $ 13,639 26 % Research and development 22,570 15,413 7,157 46 % General and administrative 21,653 14,413 7,240 50 % Total operating expenses $ 111,101 $ 83,065 $ 28,036 34 % Sales and marketing. Sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2022 were $66.9 million, compared to $53.2 million for the same period in the prior year. The $13.6 million increase in sales and marketing expense was primarily due to higher personnel-related expenses of $7.5 million, driven by headcount growth in our sales force to support additional demand for our platform; increased amortization expense related to deferred contract acquisition costs of $3.1 million, driven by an expansion of our UB customer base over time; increased stock-based compensation expense of $2.2 million; and an additional $2.6 million due to software subscriptions, travel, and allocated costs to support the growth in our sales force. These changes were partially offset by a decrease in marketing costs of $2.4 million. Research and development. Research and development expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2022 were $22.6 million, compared to $15.4 million for the same period in the prior year. The $7.2 million increase was primarily due to higher personnel-related expenses of $4.5 million, mainly driven by additional headcount; increased stock-based compensation expense of $1.2 million; and increased software subscription costs of $0.8 million due to additional headcount. General and administrative. General and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2022 were $21.7 million, compared to $14.4 million for the same period in the prior year. The $7.2 million increase in general and administrative expense was primarily due to an increase of $3.7 million in personnel-related expenses, mainly driven by additional headcount; a $2.4 million increase in professional services, mainly related to accounting and tax services to support the growth of our business; and a $1.5 million increase in business related insurance, due to our status as a public company. These changes were partially offset by a decrease in stock-based compensation of $1.2 million, as this expense for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was higher in part due to certain secondary transactions and tender offer activity that was not replicated after our IPO. Total other income (expense), net Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2022 2021 $ % Other income (expense) (in thousands, except percentages) Interest income (expense), net $ 243 $ (218) $ 461 (211) % Other expense, net (244) (428) 184 (43) % Total other expense, net $ (1) $ (646) $ 645 (100) % 36 Table of Contents We recorded an immaterial amount of total other expense, net for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $0.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The decrease in total other expense, net for the three months ended March 31, 2022 when compared to the same period in the prior year was primar ily attributable to a reversal of interest expense related to our instructor withholding tax reserve, due to the revision of certain key assumptions, including the expected relief on certain instructor payments the Company will be entitled to. Income tax provision Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2022 2021 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Income tax provision $ (332) $ (905) $ (573) 63 % For the three months ended March 31, 2022, we recognized income tax expense of $0.3 million, compared to $0.9 mi llion for the same period in the prior ye ar. Income tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 was primarily comprised of foreign taxes. Certain key business metrics and non-GAAP financial metrics In addition to the measures presented in our condensed consolidated financial statements, we use the key business metrics and non-GAAP financial metrics identified below to help us assess the health of our community, evaluate our business, identify trends affecting our business, formulate business plans, and make strategic decisions. Monthly average buyers A buyer is a consumer who purchases a course or subscription through our direct-to-consumer offering. The number of monthly average buyers is calculated as the average of monthly buyers during a particular period, such as a fiscal year. Our monthly average buyer count is not intended as a measure of active engagement, as not all buyers are active at any given time or over any given period. We believe that the number of monthly average buyers in a given period is an important indicator of the growth of our business and potential future revenue trends. Our monthly average buyers count is expected to fluctuate in future periods due to a number of factors, including the growth of our customer base, expansion of products and features, and our ability to retain our Consumer customers. Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 % (in thousands, except percentages) Monthly average buyers 1,383 1,411 (2) % Udemy Business customers We count the total number of UB customers at the end of each period. To do so, we generally count unique customers using the concept of a domestic ultimate parent, defined as the highest business in the family tree that is in the same country as the contracted entity. In some cases, we deviate from this methodology, defining the contracted entity as a unique customer despite existence of a domestic ultimate parent. This often occurs where the domestic ultimate parent is a financial owner, government entity, or acquisition target where we have contracted directly with the subsidiary. We define a UB customer as a customer who purchases Udemy via our direct sales force, reseller partnerships or through our self-service platform. We believe that the number of UB customers and our ability to increase this number is an important indicator of the growth of our UB and future revenue trends. The increase in UB customers is primarily attributable to the continued pursuit of our global land and expand strategy, as well as growth of our enterprise sales force. 37 Table of Contents March 31, 2022 2021 % Udemy Business customers 11,605 7,783 49 % Udemy Business Annual Recurring Revenue We disclose our UB Annual Recurring Revenue, or ARR, as a measure of our Enterprise revenue growth. ARR represents the annualized value of our UB customer contracts on the last day of a given period. Only revenue from closed UB contracts with active seats as of the last day of the period are included. The increase in UB ARR was primarily driven by an increase in the number of UB customers, as well as an increase in the average deal size per new customer and net expansions in our existing UB customer base. Pricing was not a significant driver of the increase in UB ARR. March 31, 2022 2021 % (in thousands, except percentages) Udemy Business annual recurring revenue $ 279,645 $ 155,241 80 % Udemy Business Net Dollar Retention Rate We disclose our UB Net Dollar Retention Rate, or NDRR, as a measure of our Enterprise revenue growth. We believe NDRR is an important metric that provides insight into the long-term value of our subscription agreements and our ability to retain, and grow revenue from, our UB customers. We calculate NDRR as the total ARR at the end of a trailing twelve-month period divided by the total ARR at the beginning of a trailing twelve-month period for the cohort of UB customers active at the beginning of the trailing twelve-month period. Total ARR at the end of a trailing twelve-month period is calculated as ARR at the beginning of a trailing twelve-month period that is then adjusted for upsells, downsells, and churns for the same cohort of customers during that period. Our NDRR is expected to fluctuate in future periods due to a number of factors, including the growth of our revenue base, the penetration within our learner base, expansion of products and features, and our ability to retain our UB customers. March 31, 2022 2021 % Udemy Business net dollar retention rate 120 % 119 % 1 % Segment revenue and segment gross profit Our revenue is generated from our Consumer and UB offerings, each of which is an individual segment of our business. Segment revenue represents the revenue recognized from each of these offerings and is a key measure of the performance of our platform, and in turn drives our financial performance. We also monitor segment gross profit as a key metric to help evaluate the financial performance of our individual segments and our business as a whole. Segment gross profit is defined as segment revenue less segment cost of revenue, which include content costs, hosting and platform costs, customer support services, and payment processing fees that are allocable to each segment. Segment gross profit excludes amortization of capitalized software, amortization of intangible assets, depreciation, and stock-based compensation allocated to cost of revenue as our chief operating decision maker does not include the information in his measurement of the performance of the operating segments. Content costs, which are payments made to our instructors, are the largest individual component of segment cost of revenue. We expect to increase the percentage of our revenue derived from our Enterprise segment over time, which we expect will improve our gross margins. 38 Table of Contents For the three months ended March 31, 2022, the increase in the Consumer segment gross margin was primarily due to a reduction in Consumer content costs as a percentage of Consumer revenue. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, the Enterprise segment gross margin was consistent with the prior year, as the mix of content costs, hosting costs, payment processing fees, and customer support services remained a consistent percentage of Enterprise revenue when compared to the prior year. Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands, except percentages) Consumer segment revenue $ 87,312 $ 87,873 Consumer segment gross profit $ 47,515 $ 45,423 Consumer segment gross margin 54 % 52 % Enterprise segment revenue $ 64,911 $ 36,677 Enterprise segment gross profit $ 42,748 $ 23,719 Enterprise segment gross margin 66 % 65 % Non-GAAP financial metrics In addition to the measures presented in our condensed consolidated financial statements, we use the following non-GAAP financial metrics identified below to help us evaluate our business, formulate business plans, and make strategic decisions. Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin As adjusted EBITDA facilitates internal comparisons of our historical operating performance on a more consistent basis, we use this measure for business planning purposes. Accordingly, we believe that adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management team and board of directors. In addition, it provides a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons of our business, as it removes the effect of certain non-cash expenses and certain variable charges. We define adjusted EBITDA as net loss attributable to common stockholders, adjusted to exclude: interest expense (income), net; provision for income taxes; depreciation and amortization; stock-based compensation expense; and other expense (income), net. We define adjusted EBITDA margin as adjusted EBITDA divided by revenue for the same period. 39 Table of Contents The following table provides a reconciliation of net loss, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, to adjusted EBITDA (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Net loss $ (25,649) $ (17,989) Adjusted to exclude the following: Interest (income) expense, net (243) 218 Provision for income taxes 332 905 Depreciation and amortization 4,967 3,069 Stock-based compensation expense 13,342 10,512 Other expense, net 244 428 Adjusted EBITDA $ (7,007) $ (2,857) The following table provides a reconciliation of net loss margin, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, to adjusted EBITDA margin (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Revenue $ 152,223 $ 124,550 Net loss $ (25,649) $ (17,989) Net loss margin (17) % (14) % Revenue $ 152,223 $ 124,550 Adjusted EBITDA $ (7,007) $ (2,857) Adjusted EBITDA margin (5) % (2) % Net loss increased by $7.7 million in the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the same period in the prior year, and adjusted EBITDA decreased b y $4.2 million i n the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to increased operating expenses as we scale and grow our business. Liquidity and capital resources As of March 31, 2022, we had cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash of $514.6 million, compared to $536.8 million as of December 31, 2021. Our non-U.S. cash and cash equivalents have been earmarked for indefinite investment in our operations outside the U.S., and consequently no U.S. current or deferred taxes have been accrued on such amounts. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and our expected cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our cash needs for at least the next 12 months. Sources of funds We have historically financed our operations primarily through revenue, as well as proceeds from issuances of our capital stock. In October 2021, we received net proceeds of $397.4 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions of $23.1 million, from our IPO. In November 2021, underwriters exercised their option to purchase additional shares of our common stock, resulting in net proceeds of $17.8 million after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions of $1.0 million. 40 Table of Contents Use of funds Our principal uses of cash are funding our operations, capital expenditures and working capital requirements. We have generated significant net losses from our operations as reflected in our accumulated deficit of $484.2 million as of March 31, 2022 and $458.5 million as of December 31, 2021. We have generally incurred operating losses and generated negative cash flows from operations as we have invested in growing our business. Our operating cash requirements may increase in the future as we continue to invest in the development of our platform and the growth of our business. We cannot be certain our revenue will grow sufficiently to offset our operating expense increases. As a result, we may need to raise additional funds to support our operations, and such funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ (13,975) $ (13,758) Investing activities (8,277) (4,222) Financing activities 72 2,241 Effect of foreign exchange rates on cash flows 6 Net decrease in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (22,174) $ (15,739) Operating activities Cash used in operating activities mainly consists of our net loss adjusted for certain non-cash items, including stock-based compensation, depreciation and amortization, amortization of deferred sales commissions, as well as the effect of changes in operating assets and liabilities during each period. Our main source of operating cash is payments received from our customers. Our primary use of cash from operating activities are for personnel-related expenses, instructor payments, advertising expenses, indirect taxes, and third-party cloud infrastructure expenses. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, cash used in operating activities w as $14.0 million , primarily consisting of our net loss of $25.6 million , adjusted for non-cash charges of $26.6 million and net cash outflows of $15.0 million provided by changes in our operating assets and liabilities. The main drivers of the changes in operating assets and liabilities were a $20.0 million increase in deferred revenue, resulting primarily from our enterprise business growth, offset by a $22.0 million decrease in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities, and a $13.0 million increase in deferred contract costs. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, cash used in operating activities w as $13.8 million , primarily consisting of our net loss of $18.0 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $17.1 million and net cash outflows of $12.8 million provided by changes in our operating assets and liabilities. The main drivers of the changes in operating assets and liabilities were a $14.1 million increase in deferred revenue, resulting primarily from our enterprise business growth, offset by a $16.3 million decrease in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities, and a $8.0 million increase in deferred contract costs. Investing activities For the three months ended March 31, 2022, net cash used in investing activities w as $8.3 million , primarily as a result of our purchase of strategic investments, as well as capital expenditures for capitalized software costs. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, net cash used in investing activities w as $4.2 million , primarily as a result of capital expenditures for capitalized software costs. 41 Table of Contents Financing activities For the three months ended March 31, 2022, net cash provided by financing activities w as immaterial , as our proceeds from issuance of common stock following employee stock option exercises were almost fully offset by the final payments of deferred offering costs associated with our IPO. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, net cash provided by financing activities w as $2.2 million , which consisted of $4.5 million of proceeds from issuance of common stock following employee stock option exercises, which was partially offset by a $2.3 million payment of redeemable convertible preferred stock issuance costs. Off-balance sheet arrangements During the periods presented, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Critical accounting policies and estimates Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses, and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Actual results may differ from these estimates. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and our actual results, our future financial statements will be affected. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to those described in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Recent accounting pronouncements See Note 2 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for information regarding recently issued accounting pronouncements. JOBS Act transition period We are an emerging growth company as defined in the JOBS Act. The JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of an extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. This provision allows an emerging growth company to delay the adoption of some accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We have elected to use the extended transition period under the JOBS Act for the adoption of certain accounting standards until the earlier of the date we (i) are no longer an emerging growth company or (ii) affirmatively and irrevocably opt out of the extended transition period provided in the JOBS Act. As a result, our condensed consolidated financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates.