Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q.In addition to historical condensed consolidated financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates, and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. You should review the sections titled Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements for a discussion of forward-looking statements and in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors for a discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. Overview Our mission is to improve lives through learning. We believe traditional education and training methods are fast becoming outdated. Technological advancements and novel industries have significantly altered the types of skills required of workers, and lifelong training and continuous skills acquisition are becoming the norm. There is a clear need to expand access to learning across traditional barriers such as geography and social demographics. Our online platform empowers organizations and individuals with flexible and effective skill acquisition and development, connecting global learners with relevant and up-to-date knowledge from experts and practitioners around the world. Udemys consumer marketplace has attracted nearly 71 million learners in over 180 countries who are looking for the knowledge and skills they need to attain in-demand jobs, further their career, and improve their well-being. We curate the highest-quality content from our marketplace for Udemys enterprise SaaS platform, Udemy Business, which enables companies around the world to offer effective on-demand learning for employees, immersive laboratory-style learning for tech teams, and cohort-based learning focused on leadership development. Our network of over 75,000 instructors have created over 220,000 courses in 74 languages that cover a wide range of topics, including technology, business, soft skills, and personal development. Share repurchase On February 14, 2024, our Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program (the Repurchase Program) with authorization to purchase up to $100 million of Udemy common stock. We may repurchase shares of common stock from time to time through open market purchases, in privately negotiated transactions, or by other means, including through the use of trading plans intended to qualify under Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, in accordance with applicable securities laws and other restrictions. The number of shares to be repurchased and the timing of the repurchases depend on several factors, including, without limitation, business, economic, and market conditions, corporate, legal, and regulatory requirements, prevailing stock prices, trading volume, and other considerations. The Repurchase Program may be suspended or discontinued at any time and does not obligate us to acquire any amount of common stock. Key factors impacting our performance We believe that the growth of our business and our future success are dependent upon many factors. While each of these factors presents significant opportunities for us, these factors also pose challenges that we must successfully address in order to sustain the growth of our business and enhance our results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Ability to attract and engage new learners and Udemy Business customers To grow our business, we must attract new learners and UB customers efficiently and increase engagement on our platform over time. We acquire a substantial portion of our learners via organic channels and also use paid marketing to further enhance the growth of our learner base. Our organic channels include those outside of our paid marketing efforts, such as a Udemy brand name internet search. Once we bring new learners onto our platform, we work to create a best-in-class experience to encourage engagement and drive learning and career outcomes. Ability to retain and expand our existing learner and customer relationships Our business and results of operations will depend on our ability to continue to drive higher usage of our platform within our existing customer base and our ability to add new customers. Our efforts to grow our existing relationships with our consumer learners are focused on increasing their engagement and converting free learners first into purchasers of individuals courses, and then into subscribers. New learners to our platform may first engage with our free courses, which serve as a funnel to grow our total learner base and drive purchases and referrals to our paid offerings. Our efforts to grow our UB offering are focused primarily on corporate and government customers. Historically, we have expanded from individual to department to multi-department to enterprise-wide sales as our value is proven. Building upon this success, we believe a significant opportunity exists for us to acquire new UB customers and expand our existing UB customers use of our platform by identifying new use cases and increasing the size of existing deployments. We often enter into customized contractual arrangements with our UB customers in which we offer more favorable pricing terms in exchange for larger total contract values that accompany larger deployments. As we drive a greater portion of our revenue through our deployments with UB customers, we expect that our revenue will continue to grow significantly, but the price we charge UB customers per seat may decline, which could reduce margins in the future. Ability to source in-demand content from our instructors We believe that learners and UB customers are attracted to Udemy largely because of the high quality and wide selection of content our instructors offer. Continuing to source in-demand content and credentials from our instructors will be an important factor in attracting learners and UB customers and growing our revenue over time. When we offer content as part of the UB and consumer subscription offerings, our instructors agree to contribute such content exclusively through our platform, which we believe demonstrates our ability to increase the value of our platform through unique content. We view the breadth and diverse expertise of our instructor base and the content they create as one of our competitive advantages. Our ability to expand the instructor payment pool while optimizing the revenue share structure is a key element of supporting the long-term growth of our business. Furthermore, a significant portion of the most popular content on our platform, and as a result a significant portion of our revenue, is attributable to a limited number of our instructors. We experienced minimal turnover among top instructors during the three months ended March 31, 2024. Impact of mix of Enterprise and Consumer segments Our mix of business among our Enterprise and Consumer segments is shifting, and this shift will continue to affect our financial performance. Enterprise segment gross margin is higher than that of Consumer, primarily driven by comparably lower content costs which are partially offset by higher customer support costs. The mix of customer acquisition methods in our Consumer segment will substantially impact our financial performance. We presently expect that revenue from our Enterprise segment will continue to grow faster than our Consumer segment, which will be beneficial to our overall margins. 23 Table of Contents Ability to expand our international footprint We currently generate a significant portion of our revenue outside North America. We see a significant opportunity to expand our offerings into regions with large underserved adult learning populations. We have invested, and plan to continue to invest, in personnel and marketing efforts to support our international growth and expand our international operations as part of our strategy to grow our customer and learner base, particularly among our UB customers. We also plan to continue investing in strategic partnerships that either extend our marketing reach or the capabilities and reach of our global go-to-market sales team. Our success in certain markets depends on strategic partnerships with key resellers, such as in Japan where our partner Benesse is an exclusive reseller of our UB business. Our investment in growth We are actively investing in our business as we believe that we are only beginning to penetrate our market opportunity, and we intend to continue to invest in our future growth. We anticipate that our operating expenses will increase as we continue to build our sales and marketing efforts, expand our course catalog, develop our immersive learning capabilities, and invest in our technology development, including investments in generative artificial intelligence. Any investments we make in our sales and marketing organization, in encouraging the development of new content, and in expanding our platform offerings and capabilities, whether organically or through acquisitions or strategic partnerships, will occur in advance of the benefits from such investments, making it difficult to determine if we are efficiently allocating our resources in these areas. Pace of adoption of cloud-based skill development solutions Our ability to grow our learner base and drive market adoption of our platform is affected by the overall demand for cloud-based skill development solutions. The market for cloud-based skill development is less mature than the market for in-person, instructor-led-training, and potential customers may be slow or unwilling to migrate from these legacy approaches. We believe that as technology becomes increasingly critical to business operations, the need for cloud-based skill development solutions, particularly an integrated enterprise-grade platform such as ours, will increase, and our customer base and the breadth and deployment of usage in our customer base will also increase. However, it is difficult to predict customer adoption rates and demand, the future growth rate and size of the market for cloud-based skill development solutions, or the entry of competitive solutions. Components of results of operations Revenue We recognize revenue from contracts with UB customers and paid consumer learners by delivering access to our online learning platform. Enterprise revenue primarily relates to enterprise license subscription contracts with annual or multi-year subscription terms. Enterprise license subscriptions include Team Plan, Enterprise Plan, Udemy Business Pro, and Leadership Academy. Enterprise subscriptions are typically billed in advance on a quarterly or annual basis. Subscription revenue excludes any taxes to be remitted to governmental authorities. Access to the Udemy platform represents a series of distinct services as we continually provide access to course content and fulfill our obligation to the UB customer over the subscription term. Because the series of distinct services represents a single performance obligation that is satisfied over time, we recognize revenue ratably over the contractual subscription term. Enterprise revenue recognized from professional services was immaterial for the periods presented. Consumer revenue consists of individual course content purchases made by individual learners, as well as our consumer subscription offerings. Consumer revenue includes the gross transaction value paid by the learner at checkout, net of (a) actual and estimated refunds and (b) passthrough taxes collected from learners and remitted to governmental authorities. After a successful checkout, consumer learners receive a non-exclusive license to the digital course content in addition to stand-ready access to the Udemy platform hosting services needed to access the content. Access to the online content on the Udemy platform represents a series of distinct services as we continually provide access to and fulfill our hosting obligation to the learner. This series of distinct services represents a single performance obligation that is satisfied over time. Revenue from single course purchases is recognized ratably over the estimated service period, which is four months from the date of enrollment, while revenue from consumer subscriptions is recognized ratably over the contractual subscription term. 24 Table of Contents We are the principal with respect to revenue generated from sales to UB and consumer customers as we control the performance obligation and are the primary obligor with respect to delivering our customers access to the course content. Cost of revenue Cost of revenue primarily consists of content costs, which are the payments to our instructors. Content costs are driven by the means by which we acquired the learner consuming the content. For courses offered on Udemys consumer marketplace, instructors earn a specific percentage of the net sale amount when a learner purchases the instructors course. For courses offered through Udemy Business or a consumer subscription offering, instructors earn a pro-rata share of a monthly instructor payments pool for that subscription offering. Each month, Udemy calculates the revenue for each subscription offering, with a fixed percentage allocated as an instructor payments pool. Instructors whose content is included in the collection earn a prorated portion of this pool based on the number of minutes of consumption their courses achieved that month. Content costs are recorded as cost of revenue in the period earned by our instructors. Content costs as a percentage of revenue for our UB and consumer subscription offerings are lower relative to individual course content purchases in our consumer offering. As a result, shifts in the mix between offerings and changes to the revenue share structure for UB and consumer subscriptions are expected to be a significant driver of future changes in gross margin. We are reducing the instructor revenue share for our subscription offerings, which are derived as a percentage of total UB and consumer subscription revenues, from a historical rate of 25% to 15% by 2026. The first adjustment was effective on January 1, 2024, and reduced the rate to 20%. For consumer single course purchases, content costs are incurred at the time of purchase. As consumer course content revenue is recognized ratably over an estimated service period of four months, consumer gross margins are lower in the period of purchase, and higher in the remaining periods of the estimated service period over which revenue is recognized. For our UB and consumer subscription offerings, content costs are incurred based on monthly subscription fees, and margins are more stable from period to period. Cost of revenue also includes payment and mobile processing fees, costs associated with hosting digital content, employee related expenses for our customer support organization, including salaries, benefits, stock-based compensation, facilities and other expenses, depreciation of network equipment, amortization of capitalized software, amortization of vendor relationships and developed technologies acquired through business combinations, and the portion of fees paid to certain reseller partners attributable to their providing customer support services to UB customers. We expect cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue to generally decrease, as we increase the percentage of revenue derived from our UB offering and decrease the instructor revenue share percentage. Operating expenses Operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing, general and administrative expenses, and restructuring charges. Personnel costs are the most significant component of our operating expenses and consist of salaries, benefits, bonuses, stock-based compensation, and commissions. Our operating expenses also include allocated costs of facilities, information technology, depreciation, and amortization. Although our operating expenses may fluctuate from period to period, we currently expect our operating expenses to increase in absolute dollars over time. Sales and marketing Our sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs, including stock-based compensation, marketing, sponsorship and brand costs, costs related to customer and instructor acquisition, amortization of deferred contract costs, amortization of tradenames and customer relationships acquired through business combinations. Sales and marketing expenses also consist of costs incurred for hosting and customer support services related to providing our platform to free learners. We expect sales and marketing expenses to increase in absolute dollars as our business grows. In addition, we expect sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenue to vary from period to period, depending on the timing of our marketing activities, but generally expect this percentage to decrease over the long term. 25 Table of Contents Research and development Our research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs, including stock-based compensation, and costs related to the ongoing management, maintenance, and expansion of features and services offered on our platform. Research and development costs also include contracted services, supplies, and other miscellaneous expenses. We believe that continued investment in our platform is important to our future growth and to maintain and attract learners to our platform. As a result, we expect research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars. In addition, we expect research and development expenses as a percentage of revenue may vary from period to period depending on the timing of investments in our platform. General and administrative Our general and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs, including stock-based compensation, costs related to our executive, legal, finance, and human resources departments, as well as charges for indirect tax reserves, allowance for credit losses, professional fees, and other corporate expenses. We expect general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars as our business grows. In addition, we expect general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue to vary from period to period but generally decrease over the long term. Restructuring charges Our restructuring charges consist primarily of personnel expenses, such as employee severance, benefits costs, and stock-based compensation, related to the reduction of our global workforce in the first quarter of 2023. Interest income Interest income consists primarily of interest income earned on our cash equivalents and short-term investments, including amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts related to our available-for-sale marketable securities, net of associated fees. Interest expense Interest expense consists primarily of interest expense related to certain indirect tax reserves. Other expense, net Other expense, net consists of foreign currency transaction gains and losses, as well as changes in the valuation of strategic investments, if any. Income tax provision Our income tax provision consists primarily of income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We have a full valuation allowance against our U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets as the realization of the full amount of these deferred tax assets is uncertain, including net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits related primarily to research and development. The valuation allowance is driven by our overall loss position, and we will not be able to utilize any of these favorable tax attributes until we are in a taxable income position. When we begin to consistently operate in a taxable income position, we may release portions of the valuation allowance to recognize and use those tax attributes. Until then, we expect to maintain this full valuation allowance until it becomes more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized. 26 Table of Contents Results of operations The following table summarizes our results of operations for the periods presented. The results below are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for future periods. Results are as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Revenue $ 196,846 $ 176,430 Cost of revenue (1)(2) 76,282 76,701 Gross profit 120,564 99,729 Operating expenses (1)(2) Sales and marketing 87,301 79,657 Research and development 31,223 30,887 General and administrative 24,769 26,334 Restructuring charges 10,128 Total operating expenses 143,293 147,006 Loss from operations (22,729) (47,277) Other income (expense) Interest income 5,728 4,322 Interest expense (3) (390) Other expense, net (308) (142) Total other income, net 5,417 3,790 Net loss before taxes (17,312) (43,487) Income tax provision (1,027) (1,057) Net loss $ (18,339) $ (44,544) Net loss per share Basic and diluted $ (0.12) $ (0.31) Weighted-average shares used in computing net loss per share Basic and diluted 156,570,426 145,737,709 (1)Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Cost of revenue $ 1,657 $ 1,593 Sales and marketing 7,341 7,277 Research and development 6,675 6,294 General and administrative 7,032 9,911 Restructuring charges 1,208 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 22,705 $ 26,283 (2) Includes amortization of intangible assets as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Cost of revenue $ 725 $ 725 Sales and marketing 230 342 Total amortization of intangible assets $ 955 $ 1,067 27 Table of Contents The following table summarizes our results of operations as a percentage of revenue for each of the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 39 43 Gross profit 61 57 Operating expenses Sales and marketing 44 45 Research and development 16 18 General and administrative 13 16 Restructuring charges 5 Total operating expenses 73 84 Loss from operations (12) (27) Other income (expense) Interest income 3 2 Interest expense Other expense, net Total other income, net 3 2 Net loss before taxes (9) (25) Income tax provision Net loss (9) % (25) % Comparison of the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 $ % Revenue (in thousands, except percentages) Enterprise $ 117,640 $ 95,242 $ 22,398 24 % Consumer 79,206 81,188 (1,982) (2) % Total revenue $ 196,846 $ 176,430 $ 20,416 12 % Revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2024, was $196.8 million, compared to $176.4 million for the same period in the prior year, which represents an increase of $20.4 million, or 12%. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, Enterprise and Consumer revenue was $117.6 million and $79.2 million, respectively, representing 60% and 40% of total revenue, respectively, compared to $95.2 million and $81.2 million, respectively, representing 54% and 46% of total revenue, respectively, for the same period in the prior year. The increase in revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was primarily driven by the growth in our Enterprise segment, which was partially offset by a decrease in Consumer revenue during the same period. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, total Enterprise revenue increased by $22.4 million, or 24%, compared to the same period in the prior year. The increase in Enterprise revenue was primarily driven by an increase in the number of UB customers, as well as net expansions in our existing UB customer base. These changes were partially offset by a negative impact from foreign currency exchange rates. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, total Consumer revenue decreased by $2.0 million, or 2%, compared to the same period in the prior year. The decrease in Consumer revenue was due to a lower amount of revenue recognized in the current period that was deferred from single course purchases made a prior period, as well as negative impacts from foreign currency exchange rates. This was partially offset by an increase in revenue from consumer subscriptions as we continue to expand the offering into new markets. 28 Table of Contents Cost of revenue, gross profit and gross margin Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Cost of revenue $ 76,282 $ 76,701 $ (419) (1) % Gross profit 120,564 99,729 20,835 21 % Gross margin 61 % 57 % Cost of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2024, was $76.3 million, compared to $76.7 million for the same period in the prior year, which represents a decrease of $0.4 million, or 1%. Content costs for the Enterprise and Consumer segments were $21.2 million and $28.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, respectively, compared to $21.8 million and $29.9 million for the same period in the prior year, respectively. Content costs as a percentage of segment revenue for the Enterprise and Consumer segments were 18% and 35%, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2024, and 23% and 37%, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The reduction in content costs as a percentage of revenue was primarily driven by the reduction in instructor revenue share from 25% to 20% for all subscription offerings, which became effective on January 1, 2024. In each of our Enterprise and Consumer segments, customer support costs, hosting and platform fees, and payment processing fees were generally consistent with the costs incurred the same period in the prior year. On a consolidated basis, there was an increase of $0.9 million in amortization of capitalized software for the three months ended March 31, 2024, when compared to the same period in the prior year. Gross margin was 61% for the three months ended March 31, 2024, compared to 57% for the same period in the prior year. The increase in gross margin was primarily due to the reduction in instructor revenue share for all subscription offerings and the continued shift in mix of revenue toward our Enterprise segment. Operating expenses Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 $ % Operating expenses (in thousands, except percentages) Sales and marketing $ 87,301 $ 79,657 $ 7,644 10 % Research and development 31,223 30,887 336 1 % General and administrative 24,769 26,334 (1,565) (6) % Restructuring charges 10,128 (10,128) n/m Total operating expenses $ 143,293 $ 147,006 $ (3,713) (3) % n/m - not meaningful Sales and marketing. Sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2024 were $87.3 million, compared to $79.7 million for the same period in the prior year. The $7.6 million increase in sales and marketing expense was primarily due to a $3.5 million increase in amortization of deferred contract costs, a $3.3 million increase in direct marketing costs, and a $1.4 million increase in sponsorship costs. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in personnel-related expenses of $1.3 million. Research and development. Research and development expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2024 were $31.2 million, compared to $30.9 million for the same period in the prior year. Research and development expenses remained generally consistent in comparison to the same period in the prior year due to cost-efficiency efforts. General and administrative. General and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2024 were $24.8 million, compared to $26.3 million for the same period in the prior year. The $1.6 million decrease in general and administrative expense was primarily due to a $2.9 million decrease in stock-based compensation expense, primarily driven by the accelerated expense incurred during the three months ended March 31, 2023, 29 Table of Contents as a result of the transition of our former CEO. This change was offset by a $0.8 million increase in professional services and a $0.4 million increase in our provision for expected credit losses. Restructuring charges. There were no restructuring charges recorded during the three months ended March 31, 2024. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, restructuring charges totaled $10.1 million. These charges consisted of $8.9 million of personnel and other expenses, such as employee severance and benefits costs, as well as $1.2 million of stock-based compensation expense. Total other income (expense), net Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 $ % Other income (expense) (in thousands, except percentages) Interest income $ 5,728 $ 4,322 $ 1,406 33 % Interest expense (3) (390) 387 (99) % Other income (expense), net (308) (142) (166) 117 % Total other income, net $ 5,417 $ 3,790 $ 1,627 43 % We recorded net total other income of $5.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, compared to $3.8 million for the same period in the prior year. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, we recognized $5.7 million in interest and accretion income on our existing cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities portfolio compared to $4.3 million for the same period in the prior year. Income tax provision Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Income tax provision $ (1,027) $ (1,057) $ 30 (3) % For the three months ended March 31, 2024, we recognized income tax expense of $1.0 million, compared to $1.1 million for the same period in the prior year. Income tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 was primarily comprised of foreign and state taxes. Certain key business metrics and non-GAAP financial metrics In addition to the measures presented in our condensed consolidated financial statements, we use the key business metrics and non-GAAP financial metrics identified below to help us assess the health of our community, evaluate our business, identify trends affecting our business, formulate business plans, and make strategic decisions. Udemy Business customers We count the total number of UB customers at the end of each period. To do so, we generally count unique customers using the concept of a domestic ultimate parent, defined as the highest business in the family tree that is in the same country as the contracted entity. In some cases, we deviate from this methodology, defining the contracted entity as a unique customer despite the existence of a domestic ultimate parent. This often occurs where the domestic ultimate parent is a financial owner, government entity, conglomerate, or acquisition target where we have contracted directly with the subsidiary. We define a UB customer as a customer who purchases Udemy via our direct sales force, reseller partnerships or through our self-service platform. We believe that the number of UB customers and our ability to increase this number is an important indicator of the growth of our UB and future revenue trends. The increase in UB customers is primarily attributable to the continued pursuit of our global land and expand strategy. 30 Table of Contents March 31, 2024 2023 % Udemy Business customers 16,070 14,359 12% Udemy Business Annual Recurring Revenue We disclose our UB Annual Recurring Revenue (ARR) as a measure of our Enterprise revenue growth. ARR represents the annualized value of our UB customer contracts on the last day of a given period. Only revenue from closed UB contracts with active seats as of the last day of the period are included. The increase in UB ARR was primarily driven by an increase in the number of UB customers and net expansions in our existing UB customer base. March 31, 2024 2023 % (in thousands) Udemy Business annual recurring revenue $ 479,401 $ 396,049 21% Udemy Business Net Dollar Retention Rate and Udemy Business Large Customer Net Dollar Retention Rate We disclose UB Net Dollar Retention Rate, or UB NDRR, as a measure of revenue growth for all UB customers within our Enterprise segment, including UB Large Customers, which we define as companies with at least 1,000 employees. We believe UB NDRR is an important metric that provides insight into the long-term value of our UB subscription agreements and our ability to retain and grow revenue from our UB customers. We believe UB Large Customer NDRR reflects our ability to retain and expand our footprint with larger organizations, who present greater opportunities for us to retain and grow revenue given the wider range of potential use cases and land-and-expand opportunities. We calculate UB NDRR as the total ARR at the end of a trailing twelve-month period divided by the total ARR at the beginning of a trailing twelve-month period for the cohort of all UB customers active at the beginning of the trailing twelve-month period. We calculate UB Large Customer NDRR as the total UB Large Customer ARR at the end of a trailing twelve-month period divided by the total Large Customer ARR at the beginning of a trailing twelve-month period for the cohort of UB customers with at least 1,000 employees active at the beginning of the trailing twelve-month period. Total ARR and Large Customer ARR at the end of a trailing twelve-month period are calculated as ARR and Large Customer ARR, respectively, at the beginning of a trailing twelve-month period that are then adjusted for upsells, downsells, and churns for the same cohort of customers during that period. Large Customer ARR represents the annualized value of contracts for UB customers with active seats and having at least 1,000 employees on the last day of a given period. Our UB NDRR and UB Large Customer NDRR are expected to fluctuate in future periods due to a number of factors, including the growth of our revenue base, the penetration within our learner base, expansion of products and features, and our ability to retain our UB customers. The decreases in our NDRR metrics were driven by lower rates of upsells and expansion, which were negatively impacted by longer sales cycles in light of overall economic factors. 31 Table of Contents March 31, 2024 2023 % Udemy Business net dollar retention rate 104 % 112 % (7)% Udemy Business Large Customer net dollar retention rate 111 % 120 % (7)% Monthly average buyers A buyer is a consumer who purchases a course or subscription through our direct-to-consumer offering. We first determine the number of monthly buyers by taking the total buyers of single courses during a given month plus the total active, paid consumer subscribers at any point in that month, adjusting for duplicate buyers that may be present in both totals. We then calculate monthly average buyers by taking an average of the monthly buyer totals over a particular period, such as a fiscal year. Our monthly average buyer count is not intended as a measure of active engagement, as not all buyers are active at any given time or over any given period. We believe that the number of monthly average buyers in a given period is an important indicator of the growth of our business and potential future revenue trends. Our monthly average buyers count is expected to fluctuate in future periods due to a number of factors, including the growth of our customer base, expansion of products and features, and our ability to retain our Consumer customers. Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 % (in thousands) Monthly average buyers 1,442 1,393 4% Segment revenue and segment gross profit Our revenue is generated from our UB and Consumer offerings, each of which is an individual segment of our business. Segment revenue represents the revenue recognized from each of these offerings and is a key measure of the performance of our platform, and in turn drives our financial performance. We also monitor segment gross profit as a key metric to help evaluate the financial performance of our individual segments and our business as a whole. Segment gross profit is defined as segment revenue less segment cost of revenue, which include content costs, hosting and platform costs, customer support services, and payment processing fees that are allocable to each segment. Segment gross profit excludes amortization of capitalized software, amortization of intangible assets, depreciation, and stock-based compensation allocated to cost of revenue as our chief operating decision maker does not include the information in his measurement of the performance of the operating segments. Content costs, which are payments made to our instructors, are the largest individual component of segment cost of revenue. We expect to increase the percentage of our revenue derived from our Enterprise segment over time, which we expect will improve our gross margins. Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (in thousands, except percentages) Enterprise segment revenue $ 117,640 $ 95,242 Enterprise segment gross profit $ 84,642 $ 62,375 Enterprise segment gross margin 72 % 65 % Consumer segment revenue $ 79,206 $ 81,188 Consumer segment gross profit $ 43,208 $ 43,692 Consumer segment gross margin 55 % 54 % For the three months ended March 31, 2024, the improvement in Enterprise segment gross margin was primarily due to the reduction in instructor revenue share from 25% to 20% for all subscription offerings, which was effective on January 1, 2024. Other than content costs, the mix of Enterprise segment costs were generally a consistent percentage of Enterprise revenue when compared to the same period in the prior year. 32 Table of Contents For the three months ended March 31, 2024 margin was generally consistent with the same period in the prior year, as the mix of Consumer segment costs of revenue remained a consistent percentage of Consumer revenue when compared to the same period in the prior year. Non-GAAP financial metrics In addition to the measures presented in our condensed consolidated financial statements, we use the following non-GAAP financial metrics identified below to help us evaluate our business, formulate business plans, and make strategic decisions. Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin As adjusted EBITDA facilitates internal comparisons of our historical operating performance on a more consistent basis, we use this measure for business planning purposes. Accordingly, we believe that adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management team and board of directors. In addition, it provides a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons of our business, as it removes the effect of certain non-cash expenses and certain variable charges. We define adjusted EBITDA as net loss, adjusted to exclude: interest income; interest expense; provision for income taxes; depreciation and amortization; stock-based compensation expense; other expense, net; and restructuring charges. We define adjusted EBITDA margin as adjusted EBITDA divided by revenue for the same period. 33 Table of Contents The following table provides a reconciliation of net loss, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, to adjusted EBITDA (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Net loss $ (18,339) $ (44,544) Adjusted to exclude the following: Interest income (5,728) (4,322) Interest expense 3 390 Income tax provision 1,027 1,057 Depreciation and amortization 6,483 5,786 Stock-based compensation expense 22,705 25,075 Other expense, net 308 142 Restructuring charges 10,128 Adjusted EBITDA $ 6,459 $ (6,288) The following table provides a reconciliation of net loss margin, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, to adjusted EBITDA margin (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Revenue $ 196,846 $ 176,430 Net loss $ (18,339) $ (44,544) Net loss margin (9) % (25) % Revenue $ 196,846 $ 176,430 Adjusted EBITDA $ 6,459 $ (6,288) Adjusted EBITDA margin 3 % (4) % Net loss decreased by $26.2 million in the three months ended March 31, 2024, compared to the same period in the prior year. The change was primarily driven by the growth in revenue outpacing the growth in operating expenses and interest income earned on our investments. Adjusted EBITDA improved by $12.7 million in the three months ended March 31, 2024, compared to the same period in the prior year. The improvement in adjusted EBITDA was driven by the growth in revenue outpacing the growth in operating expenses, excluding stock-based compensation expense and restructuring charges. Liquidity and capital resources As of March 31, 2024, our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash of $260.2 million and marketable securities of $173.9 million. Cash and cash equivalents includes money market funds, certain U.S. government securities purchased with original maturities of less than 90 days, on demand deposits, and amounts in transit from certain payment processors for credit and debit card transactions. Restricted cash totaled $3.4 million and consists of cash deposited with financial institutions held as collateral for our obligations under various facility leases. Marketable securities are comprised of investments in U.S. government securities with an original maturity greater than 90 days at the date of purchase. Our non-U.S. cash and cash equivalents have been earmarked for indefinite investment in our operations outside the U.S., and consequently no U.S. current or deferred taxes have been accrued on such amounts. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and our expected cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our cash needs for at least the next 12 months. 34 Table of Contents As of March 31, 2024, there have been no material changes to our commitments and contractual obligations, in comparison to those set forth in our 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on February 26, 2024 (our Annual Report), that occurred outside the ordinary course of business. Refer to Note 6 Leases and Note 7 Commitments and contingencies in our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, included in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q, for our outstanding commitments and contractual obligations as of March 31, 2024. Over the long term, we plan to continue investing in the growth and development of our platform. If our available funds are insufficient to fund these future activities or execute on our business strategies, we may raise additional capital through equity, equity-linked or debt financing, to the extent such funding sources are available. Alternatively, we may be required to reduce expenses to manage liquidity; however, any such reductions could adversely impact our business and competitive position. Sources of funds We have historically financed our operations primarily through revenue, as well as proceeds from issuances of our capital stock. From time to time, we may explore additional financing sources, which could include equity, equity-linked or debt financing. In addition, in connection with any future acquisitions or strategic investments, we may pursue additional funding, which could include debt, equity or equity-linked financings, or a combination of these methods. We can provide no assurance that any additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms. Use of funds Our principal uses of cash are funding our operations, capital expenditures and working capital requirements. We have generated significant net losses from our operations as reflected in our accumulated deficit of $738.0 million as of March 31, 2024. We have generally incurred operating losses and generated negative cash flows from operations as we have invested in growing our business. Our operating cash requirements may increase in the future as we continue to invest in the development of our platform and the growth of our business. We cannot be certain our revenue will grow sufficiently to offset our operating expense increases. As a result, we may need to raise additional funds to support our operations, and such funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 20,969 $ (19,895) Investing activities (3,770) (19,319) Financing activities (66,465) 1,180 Effect of foreign exchange rates on cash flows (50) (18) Net decrease in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (49,316) $ (38,052) Operating activities Cash used in operating activities mainly consists of our net loss adjusted for certain non-cash items, including stock-based compensation, depreciation and amortization, amortization of deferred sales commissions, as well as the effect of changes in operating assets and liabilities during each period. Our main source of operating cash is payments received from our customers. Our primary use of cash from operating activities are for personnel-related expenses, instructor payments, advertising expenses, indirect taxes, and third-party cloud infrastructure expenses. 35 Table of Contents For the three months ended March 31, 2024, cash provided by operating activities was $21.0 million, primarily consisting of our net loss of $18.3 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $43.4 million and net cash outflows of $4.1 million from changes in our operating assets and liabilities. The main drivers of the changes in operating assets and liabilities were an $18.1 million increase in deferred contract costs, due to continued expansion in our Enterprise business, an $8.0 million increase in accounts receivable, as new billings outpaced cash collections from customers, a $5.0 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets, and a $4.9 million decrease in content costs payable. These changes were offset by a $35.5 million increase in deferred revenue. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, cash used in operating activities was $19.9 million, primarily consisting of our net loss of $44.5 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $43.0 million and net cash outflows of $18.4 million provided by changes in our operating assets and liabilities. The main drivers of the changes in operating assets and liabilities were a $2.1 million increase in deferred revenue, resulting primarily from our Enterprise business growth, and a $7.8 million decrease in accounts receivable, as cash collections from customers outpaced new billings. These changes were offset by a $4.5 million decrease in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities and a $17.3 million increase in deferred contract costs. Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $40.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, compared to three months ended March 31, 2023, primarily due to growth in revenue outpacing growth in operating expenses, and continued growth in deferred revenue associated with our Enterprise segment. Investing activities For the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash used in investing activities was $3.8 million, primarily as a result of $89.5 million in purchases of marketable securities and $3.3 million related to capitalized internal-use software costs, which was partially offset by $89.2 million of proceeds received from the maturity of marketable securities. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, net cash used in investing activities was $19.3 million, primarily as a result of our $58.5 million purchases of marketable securities and $3.3 million related to capitalized internal-use software costs. These changes were partially offset by $42.5 million of proceeds received from the maturity of marketable securities. Financing activities For the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash used in financing activities was $66.5 million, driven by repurchases of common stock of $55.1 million, and $11.6 million in taxes paid related to net share settlement of employee equity awards. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, net cash provided by financing activities was $1.2 million, driven by proceeds from issuance of common stock via stock option exercises. Off-balance sheet arrangements During the periods presented, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Critical accounting policies and estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses, and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Actual results may differ from these estimates. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and our actual results, our future financial statements will be affected. 36 Table of Contents There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to those described in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report. Recent accounting pronouncements See Note 2 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for information regarding recently issued accounting pronouncements. 37 Table of Contents