Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q.In addition to historical condensed consolidated financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates, and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. You should review the sections titled Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements for a discussion of forward-looking statements and in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors for a discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. Overview Our mission is to transform lives through learning. We believe traditional skills development and validation methods are fast becoming outdated. Technological advancements and novel industries have significantly altered the types of skills required of workers, and lifelong training and continuous skills acquisition are becoming the norm. There is a clear need to expand access to learning across traditional barriers such as geography and social demographics. Our online platform empowers organizations and individuals with flexible and effective skill acquisition and development, connecting global learners with relevant and up-to-date knowledge from experts and practitioners around the world. Udemys consumer marketplace has attracted 79 million learners in over 180 countries who are looking for the knowledge and skills they need to attain in-demand jobs, further their career, and improve their well-being. We curate the highest-quality content from our marketplace for Udemys enterprise SaaS platform, Udemy Business (UB), which enables companies around the world to offer effective on-demand learning for employees, immersive laboratory-style learning for tech teams, and cohort-based learning focused on leadership development. Our network of 85,000 instructors have created over 250,000 courses in 75 languages that cover a wide range of topics, including technology, business, soft skills, and personal development. Recent Developments Effective March 12, 2025, our board of directors appointed Hugo Sarrazin to succeed Greg Brown as the Companys president and chief executive officer. As of the same date, the Board appointed Mr. Sarrazin to serve as a Class III director, with a term expiring at our 2027 annual meeting of stockholders. For more information, see Note 1 Organization and description of business. Key factors impacting our performance We believe that the growth of our business and our future success are dependent upon many factors. While each of these factors presents significant opportunities for us, these factors also pose challenges that we must successfully address in order to sustain the growth of our business and enhance our results of operations. Ability to attract and engage new learners and Udemy Business customers To grow our business, we must attract new learners and UB customers efficiently and increase engagement on our platform over time. We acquire a substantial portion of our learners via organic channels and also use paid marketing to further enhance the growth of our learner base. Our organic channels include those outside of our paid marketing efforts, such as a Udemy brand name internet search. Once we bring new learners onto our platform, we work to create a best-in-class experience to encourage engagement and drive learning and career outcomes. 24 Table of Contents Ability to retain and expand our existing learner and customer relationships Our business and results of operations will depend on our ability to continue to drive higher usage of our platform within our existing customer base and our ability to add new customers. Our efforts to grow our UB offering are focused primarily on corporate and government customers. Historically, we have expanded from individual to department to multi-department to enterprise-wide sales as our value is proven. Building upon this success, we believe a significant opportunity exists for us to acquire new UB customers and expand our existing UB customers use of our platform by identifying new use cases and increasing the size of existing deployments. In particular, we believe that our UB Large Customers, which we define as companies with at least 1,000 employees, present the most significant opportunities for us to retain and grow revenue over time, given the wider range of potential use cases and expansion opportunities. We often enter into customized contractual arrangements with our UB customers in which we offer more favorable pricing terms in exchange for larger total contract values that accompany larger deployments and longer terms. Over the long term, as we drive a greater portion of our revenue through our deployments with UB customers, we expect that our revenue will continue to grow, but the price we charge UB customers per seat may decline, which could reduce margins in the future. Our efforts to grow our existing relationships with our consumer learners are focused on increasing their engagement and converting free learners first into purchasers of individual courses, and then into subscribers. New learners to our platform may first engage with our free courses, which serve as a funnel to grow our total learner base and drive purchases and referrals to our paid offerings. Ability to source in-demand content from our instructors We believe that learners and UB customers are attracted to Udemy largely because of the high quality and wide selection of content our instructors offer. Continuing to source in-demand content and credentials from our instructors will be an important factor in attracting learners and UB customers and growing our revenue over time. When we offer content as part of the UB and consumer subscription offerings, our instructors agree to distribute such content exclusively through our platform, which we believe demonstrates our ability to increase the value of our platform through unique content. We view the breadth and diverse expertise of our instructor base and the content they create as one of our competitive advantages. Our ability to expand the instructor payment pool over time while optimizing the revenue share structure is a key element of supporting the long-term growth of our business. Furthermore, a significant portion of the most popular content on our platform, and as a result a significant portion of our revenue, is attributable to a limited number of our instructors. We experienced minimal turnover among top instructors during the three months ended March 31, 2025. Impact of mix of Enterprise and Consumer segments Our mix of revenue continues to shift toward our higher-margin Enterprise segment from our Consumer segment. Our Enterprise segments higher gross margins are primarily driven by comparably lower content costs, though partially offset by higher customer support costs. The mix of customer acquisition methods in our Consumer segment will substantially impact our financial performance. We presently expect that revenue from our Enterprise segment will continue to grow faster than our Consumer segment, which will be beneficial to our overall margins. Ability to expand our international footprint We currently generate a majority of our revenue outside North America. We see a significant opportunity to expand our offerings into regions with large underserved adult and corporate learning populations. We have invested, and plan to continue to invest, in personnel and marketing efforts to support our international growth and expand our international operations as part of our strategy to grow our customer and learner base, particularly among our UB customers. We also plan to continue investing in strategic partnerships that either extend our marketing reach or the capabilities and reach of our global go-to-market sales team. Our success in certain markets, such as Japan, depends on strategic partnerships with key resellers. 25 Table of Contents Our investment in growth We are actively investing in our business as we believe that we are only just beginning to penetrate our market opportunity. We are prioritizing resources for high-growth opportunities through expanding and deepening our opportunities with larger enterprise customers, further penetrating our existing customer base, and pursuing strategic partnerships and acquisitions. As we continue to build our sales and marketing efforts, expand our course catalog, develop our immersive learning capabilities, execute on our operational efficiency initiatives, and invest in our technology development, including investments in generative artificial intelligence, we anticipate our operating expenses will generally decrease as a percentage of revenue over time. Any investments we make to facilitate our future growth, whether organically or through acquisitions or strategic partnerships, will occur in advance of the benefits from such investments. Pace of adoption of cloud-based skill development solutions Our ability to grow our learner base and drive market adoption of our platform is affected by the overall demand for cloud-based skill development solutions. The market for cloud-based skill development is less mature than the market for in-person, instructor-led-training, and potential customers may be slow or unwilling to migrate from these legacy approaches. We believe that as technology becomes increasingly critical to business operations, the need for cloud-based skill development solutions, particularly an integrated enterprise-grade platform such as ours, will increase, and our customer base and the breadth and deployment of usage in our customer base will also increase. However, it is difficult to predict customer adoption rates and demand, the future growth rate and size of the market for cloud-based skill development solutions, or the entry of competitive solutions. Components of results of operations Revenue We recognize revenue from contracts with UB customers and paid consumer learners by delivering access to our online learning platform. Enterprise revenue primarily relates to enterprise license subscription contracts with annual or multi-year subscription terms. Enterprise license subscriptions include Team Plan, Enterprise Plan, Udemy Business Pro, and Leadership Academy. Enterprise subscriptions are typically billed in advance on a quarterly or annual basis. Subscription revenue excludes any taxes to be remitted to governmental authorities. Access to the Udemy platform represents a series of distinct services as we continually provide access to course content and fulfill our obligation to the UB customer over the subscription term. Because the series of distinct services represents a single performance obligation that is satisfied over time, we recognize revenue ratably over the contractual subscription term. Enterprise revenue recognized from professional services, in which Udemy provides customers with effective support and strategic guidance to enable learners and align with business goals, was immaterial for the periods presented. Consumer revenue consists of individual course content purchases made by individual learners, as well as our consumer subscription offerings. Consumer revenue includes the gross transaction value paid by the learner at checkout, net of (a) actual and estimated refunds and (b) passthrough taxes collected from learners and remitted to governmental authorities. After a successful checkout, consumer learners receive a non-exclusive license to the digital course content in addition to stand-ready access to the Udemy platform hosting services needed to access the content. Access to the online content on the Udemy platform represents a series of distinct services as we continually provide access to and fulfill our hosting obligation to the learner. This series of distinct services represents a single performance obligation that is satisfied over time. Revenue from single course purchases is recognized ratably over the estimated service period, which is four months from the date of enrollment, while revenue from consumer subscriptions is recognized ratably over the contractual subscription term. We are the principal with respect to revenue generated from sales to UB and consumer customers as we control the performance obligation and are the primary obligor with respect to delivering our customers access to the course content. 26 Table of Contents Cost of revenue Cost of revenue primarily consists of content costs, which are the payments to our instructors. Content costs are driven by the means by which we acquired the learner consuming the content. For courses offered on Udemys consumer marketplace, instructors earn a specific percentage of the net sale amount when a learner purchases the instructors course. For courses offered through Udemy Business or a consumer subscription offering, instructors earn a pro-rata share of a monthly instructor payments pool for that subscription offering. Each month, Udemy calculates the revenue for each subscription offering, with a fixed percentage allocated as an instructor payments pool. Instructors whose content is included in the collection earn a prorated portion of this pool based on the number of minutes of consumption their courses achieved that month. Content costs are recorded as cost of revenue in the period earned by our instructors. Content costs as a percentage of revenue for our UB and consumer subscription offerings are lower relative to individual course content purchases in our consumer offering. As a result, shifts in the mix between offerings and changes to the revenue share structure for UB and consumer subscriptions are expected to be a significant driver of future changes in gross margin. We are reducing the instructor revenue share for our subscription offerings, which are derived as a percentage of total UB and consumer subscription revenue, from a historical rate of 25% to 15% by 2026. The first rate adjustment to 20% was effective on January 1, 2024, and the second rate adjustment to 17.5% was effective as of January 1, 2025. For consumer single course purchases, content costs are incurred at the time of purchase. As consumer course content revenue is recognized ratably over an estimated service period of four months, consumer gross margins are lower in the period of purchase, and higher in the remaining periods of the estimated service period over which revenue is recognized. For our UB and consumer subscription offerings, content costs are incurred based on monthly subscription fees, and margins are more stable from period to period. Cost of revenue also includes payment and mobile processing fees, costs associated with hosting digital content, employee related expenses for our customer support organization, including salaries, benefits, stock-based compensation, facilities and other expenses, depreciation of network equipment, amortization of capitalized software, amortization of vendor relationship and developed technology intangible assets acquired through business combinations, and the portion of fees paid to certain reseller partners attributable to their providing customer support services to UB customers. We expect cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue to generally decrease, as we increase the percentage of revenue derived from our UB offering and decrease the instructor revenue share percentage. Operating expenses Operating expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development, general and administrative expenses, and restructuring charges. Personnel costs are the most significant component of our operating expenses and consist of salaries, benefits, bonuses, stock-based compensation, and commissions. Our operating expenses also include allocated costs of facilities, information technology, depreciation, and amortization. We are focused on investing in initiatives which will drive operational efficiency while focusing resources on high-growth opportunities, and as a result we anticipate our operating expenses will generally decrease as a percentage of revenue over time. Sales and marketing Our sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs, including stock-based compensation, marketing costs, sponsorship and brand costs, costs related to customer and instructor acquisition, amortization of deferred contract costs, and amortization of trade name and customer relationship intangible assets acquired through business combinations. Sales and marketing expenses also consist of costs incurred for hosting and customer support services related to providing our platform to free learners. While sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenue may vary from period to period, in part due to the extent and timing of sales and marketing initiatives, we generally expect this percentage to decrease over the long term given our focus on sales efficiency and our expansion strategy. 27 Table of Contents Research and development Our research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs, including stock-based compensation, and costs related to the ongoing management, maintenance, and expansion of features and services offered on our platform. Research and development costs also include contracted services, supplies, and other miscellaneous expenses. We believe that continued investment in our platform is important to our future growth and to maintain and attract learners and UB customers to our platform. While research and development expenses as a percentage of revenue may vary from period to period, in part due to the timing of investments in our platform, we generally expect this percentage to decrease over the long term given our focus on operational efficiency and high-growth opportunities. General and administrative Our general and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs, including stock-based compensation, costs related to our executive, legal, finance, and human resources departments, as well as charges for indirect tax reserves, allowance for credit losses, professional fees, and other corporate expenses. We expect general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue to vary from period to period but generally decrease over the long term as we benefit from greater operational scale and efficiency. Restructuring charges Our restructuring charges consist primarily of personnel expenses, such as employee severance, benefits costs, and stock-based compensation, as well as other direct and incremental costs incurred as a result of non-recurring restructuring activities that we committed to during the third quarter of 2024. Interest income Interest income consists primarily of interest income earned on our cash equivalents and short-term investments, including amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts related to our available-for-sale marketable securities, net of associated fees. Interest expense Interest expense consists primarily of interest expense related to certain indirect tax reserves. Other income (expense), net Other expense, net consists of foreign currency transaction gains and losses, as well as changes in the valuation of strategic investments, if any. Income tax provision Our income tax provision consists primarily of income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We have a full valuation allowance against our U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets as the realization of the full amount of these deferred tax assets is uncertain, including net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits related primarily to research and development. The valuation allowance is driven by our historical overall loss position, and we will not be able to utilize any of these favorable tax attributes until we are consistently in a taxable income position. When we begin to consistently operate in a taxable income position, we may release portions of the valuation allowance to recognize and use those tax attributes. Until then, we expect to maintain this full valuation allowance until it becomes more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized. 28 Table of Contents Results of operations The following table summarizes our results of operations for the periods presented. The results below are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for future periods. Results are as follows (in thousands, except share and per share amounts): Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Revenue $ 200,300 $ 196,846 Cost of revenue (1)(2) 70,857 76,282 Gross profit 129,443 120,564 Operating expenses (1)(2) Sales and marketing 82,500 87,301 Research and development 24,958 31,223 General and administrative 25,008 24,769 Restructuring charges 1,469 Total operating expenses 133,935 143,293 Loss from operations (4,492) (22,729) Other income, net Interest income 3,575 5,728 Interest expense (15) (3) Other income (expense), net 98 (308) Total other income, net 3,658 5,417 Net loss before taxes (834) (17,312) Income tax provision (937) (1,027) Net loss $ (1,771) $ (18,339) (1)Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Cost of revenue $ 1,572 $ 1,657 Sales and marketing 5,407 7,341 Research and development 4,708 6,675 General and administrative 6,280 7,032 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 17,967 $ 22,705 (2) Includes amortization of intangible assets as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Cost of revenue $ $ 725 Sales and marketing 230 230 Total amortization of intangible assets $ 230 $ 955 The following table summarizes our results of operations as a percentage of revenue for each of the periods indicated: 29 Table of Contents Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 35 39 Gross profit 65 61 Operating expenses Sales and marketing 41 44 Research and development 12 16 General and administrative 13 13 Restructuring charges 1 Total operating expenses 67 73 Loss from operations (2) (12) Other income, net Interest income 2 3 Interest expense Other income (expense), net Total other income, net 2 3 Net loss before taxes (9) Income tax provision (1) Net loss (1) % (9) % Comparison of the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 $ % Revenue (in thousands, except percentages) Enterprise $ 127,748 $ 117,640 $ 10,108 9 % Consumer 72,552 79,206 (6,654) (8) % Total revenue $ 200,300 $ 196,846 $ 3,454 2 % Revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2025, was $200.3 million, compared to $196.8 million for the same period in the prior year, which represents an increase of $3.5 million, or 2%. The increase in revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2025 was primarily driven by an increase in revenue from our Enterprise segment while being partially offset by a decrease in revenue from our Consumer segment. For the three months ended March 31, 2025, Enterprise revenue was $127.7 million, or 64% of total revenue, compared to $117.6 million, or 60% of total revenue, for the same period in the prior year. The $10.1 million, or 9%, increase in Enterprise revenue was primarily driven by an increase in the number of UB customers, and was partially offset by lower net retention rates. Although churn marginally outpaced expansion across all existing customers, as reflected by our UB NDRR of 96% as of March 31, 2025, net retention among our UB Large Customers was higher, as reflected by our UB Large Customer NDRR of 100% as of March 31, 2025. For the three months ended March 31, 2025, Consumer revenue was $72.6 million, or 36% of total revenue, compared to $79.2 million, or 40% of total revenue, for the same period in the prior year. The $6.7 million, or 8%, decrease in Consumer revenue was primarily due to a decrease in revenue recognized from single course purchases. Monthly average buyers purchasing single courses, as well as the amount of revenue recognized in the current period that was deferred from course purchases in the prior period, each decreased across the comparative periods. Foreign currency exchange rates also contributed to the decrease. These factors were partially offset by an increase in revenue recognized from consumer subscriptions as we continued to expand the offering into new markets. 30 Table of Contents Cost of revenue, gross profit and gross margin Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Cost of revenue 70,857 76,282 $ (5,425) (7) % Gross profit 129,443 120,564 $ 8,879 7 % Gross margin 65 % 61 % Cost of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2025, was $70.9 million, compared to $76.3 million for the same period in the prior year. The decrease of $5.4 million, or 7%, across the comparative periods was driven by a $4.0 million decrease in content costs and a $0.7 million decrease in amortization of intangible assets. Content costs for the Enterprise and Consumer segments were $20.4 million and $24.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, respectively, compared to $21.2 million and $28.0 million for the same period in the prior year, respectively. Segment content costs as a percentage of segment revenue for the Enterprise and Consumer segments were 16% and 34% for the three months ended March 31, 2025, respectively, compared to 18% and 35% for the same period in the prior year, respectively. The reduction in content costs as a percentage of revenue was primarily driven by the reduction in instructor revenue share from 20% to 17.5% for all subscription offerings, which became effective on January 1, 2025. In our Enterprise segment, customer support costs decreased by $0.6 million, as compared to the same period in the prior year. In our Consumer segment, customer support costs and other segment items were all consistent with those costs incurred the same period in the prior year. Gross margin was 65% for the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to 61% for the same period in the prior year. The increase in gross margin was primarily due to the reduction in instructor revenue share for all subscription offerings, the continued shift in mix of revenue toward our Enterprise segment and subscription offerings, and the decrease in customer support costs as a percentage of revenue. Operating expenses Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 $ % Operating expenses (in thousands, except percentages) Sales and marketing $ 82,500 $ 87,301 $ (4,801) (5) % Research and development 24,958 31,223 (6,265) (20) % General and administrative 25,008 24,769 239 1 % Restructuring charges 1,469 1,469 n/m Total operating expenses $ 133,935 $ 143,293 $ (9,358) (7) % n/m - not meaningful Sales and marketing. Sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2025 were $82.5 million, compared to $87.3 million for the same period in the prior year. The $4.8 million decrease in sales and marketing expense was primarily due to a $3.6 million decrease in direct marketing costs, a $2.0 million decrease in personnel-related expenses, and a $1.9 million decrease in stock-based compensation expense. These decreases were partially offset by a $1.6 million increase in amortization of deferred contract costs. Research and development. Research and development expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2025 were $25.0 million, compared to $31.2 million for the same period in the prior year. The $6.3 million decrease was primarily due to a $3.9 million decrease in personnel-related expenses and a $2.0 million decrease in stock-based compensation expense. 31 Table of Contents General and administrative. General and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2025 were $25.0 million, compared to $24.8 million for the same period in the prior year. The $0.2 million increase was primarily due to a $1.4 million increase in current period charges to the credit losses reserve. This was partially offset by a $0.8 million decrease in stock-based compensation expense and a $0.3 million decrease in personnel-related expenses. Restructuring charges. As a result of the strategic restructuring activities announced in September 2024, we recognized $1.5 million of restructuring charges during the three months ended March 31, 2025. The majority of the charges recognized were made up of personnel-related costs, consisting of one-time severance payments, salary and wages earned over required retention periods, and other benefits. There were no restructuring charges recorded during the three months ended March 31, 2024. Total other income, net Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 $ % Other income, net (in thousands, except percentages) Interest income $ 3,575 $ 5,728 $ (2,153) (38) % Interest expense (15) (3) (12) 400 % Other income (expense), net 98 (308) 406 (132) % Total other income, net $ 3,658 $ 5,417 $ (1,759) (32) % We recorded total other income, net of $3.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to $5.4 million for the same period in the prior year. The $1.8 million decrease in total other income, net was primarily driven by a $2.2 million decrease in interest and accretion income on our existing cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities portfolio. Income tax provision Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Income tax provision $ (937) $ (1,027) $ 90 (9) % For the three months ended March 31, 2025, we recognized income tax expense of $0.9 million, compared to $1.0 million for the same period in the prior year. Income tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, was primarily comprised of foreign and state taxes. Certain key business metrics and non-GAAP financial metrics In addition to the measures presented in our condensed consolidated financial statements, we use the key business metrics and non-GAAP financial metrics identified below to help us assess the health of our community, evaluate our business, identify trends affecting our business, formulate business plans, and make strategic decisions. 32 Table of Contents Udemy Business customers We count the total number of UB customers at the end of each period. To do so, we generally count unique customers using the concept of a domestic ultimate parent, defined as the highest business in the family tree that is in the same country as the contracted entity. In some cases, we deviate from this methodology, defining the contracted entity as a unique customer despite the existence of a domestic ultimate parent. This often occurs where the domestic ultimate parent is a financial owner, government entity, conglomerate, or acquisition target where we have contracted directly with the subsidiary. We define a UB customer as a customer who purchases Udemy via our direct sales force, reseller partnerships or through our self-service platform. We believe that the number of UB customers and our ability to increase this number is an important indicator of the growth of our UB and future revenue trends. The increase in UB customers is primarily attributable to the continued pursuit of our global expansion strategy. March 31, 2025 2024 % Udemy Business customers 17,216 16,070 7% Udemy Business Annual Recurring Revenue We disclose our UB Annual Recurring Revenue (ARR) as a measure of our Enterprise revenue growth. ARR represents the annualized value of our UB customer contracts on the last day of a given period. Only revenue from closed UB contracts with active seats as of the last day of the period are included. The increase in UB ARR was primarily driven by an increase in the number of UB customers, and was partially offset by churn marginally outpacing expansion across all existing customers, although net retention among our UB Large Customers was higher. March 31, 2025 2024 % (in thousands) Udemy Business annual recurring revenue $ 518,965 $ 479,401 8% 33 Table of Contents Udemy Business Net Dollar Retention Rate and Udemy Business Large Customer Net Dollar Retention Rate We disclose UB Net Dollar Retention Rate, or UB NDRR, as a measure of revenue growth for all UB customers within our Enterprise segment, including UB Large Customers, which we define as companies with at least 1,000 employees. We believe UB NDRR is an important metric that provides insight into the long-term value of our UB subscription agreements and our ability to retain and grow revenue from our UB customers. We believe UB Large Customer NDRR reflects our ability to retain and expand our footprint with larger organizations, who present greater opportunities for us to retain and grow revenue given the wider range of potential use cases and expansion opportunities. We calculate UB NDRR as the total ARR at the end of a trailing twelve-month period divided by the total ARR at the beginning of a trailing twelve-month period for the cohort of all UB customers active at the beginning of the trailing twelve-month period. We calculate UB Large Customer NDRR as the total UB Large Customer ARR at the end of a trailing twelve-month period divided by the total Large Customer ARR at the beginning of a trailing twelve-month period for the cohort of UB customers with at least 1,000 employees active at the beginning of the trailing twelve-month period. Total ARR and Large Customer ARR at the end of a trailing twelve-month period are calculated as ARR and Large Customer ARR, respectively, at the beginning of a trailing twelve-month period that are then adjusted for upsells, downsells, and churns for the same cohort of customers during that period. Large Customer ARR represents the annualized value of contracts for UB customers with active seats and having at least 1,000 employees on the last day of a given period. Our UB NDRR and UB Large Customer NDRR are expected to fluctuate in future periods due to a number of factors, including the growth of our revenue base, the penetration within our learner base, expansion of products and features, and our ability to retain our UB customers. The decreases in our NDRR metrics were driven by lower rates of upsells and expansions and marginally lower net retention rates across all existing customers, although net retention among our UB Large Customers was higher. March 31, 2025 2024 Udemy Business net dollar retention rate 96 % 104 % Udemy Business Large Customer net dollar retention rate 100 % 111 % Monthly average buyers A buyer is a consumer who purchases a course or subscription through our direct-to-consumer offering. We first determine the number of monthly buyers by taking the total buyers of single courses during a given month plus the total active, paid consumer subscribers at any point in that month, adjusting for duplicate buyers that may be present in both totals. We then calculate monthly average buyers by taking an average of the monthly buyer totals over a particular period, such as a fiscal year. Our monthly average buyer count is not intended as a measure of active engagement, as not all buyers are active at any given time or over any given period. We believe that the number of monthly average buyers in a given period is an important indicator of the growth of our business and potential future revenue trends. Our monthly average buyers count is expected to fluctuate in future periods due to a number of factors, including the growth of our customer base, expansion of products and features, and our ability to retain our Consumer customers. Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 % (in thousands) Monthly average buyers 1,412 1,442 (2)% Segment revenue and segment adjusted gross profit Our revenue is generated from our UB and Consumer offerings, which respectively correspond to our two operating and reportable segments, Enterprise and Consumer. Segment revenue represents the revenue recognized from each of these offerings and is a key measure of the performance of our platform, and in turn drives our financial performance. 34 Table of Contents We also monitor segment adjusted gross profit as a key metric to help evaluate the financial performance of our individual segments and our business as a whole. Segment adjusted gross profit is defined as segment revenue less segment adjusted cost of revenue. Segment adjusted cost of revenue includes content costs, customer support services, hosting and platform costs, and payment processing fees that are allocable to each segment. Segment adjusted gross profit excludes amortization of capitalized software, depreciation, stock-based compensation, and amortization of intangible assets included in cost of revenue as our chief operating decision maker does not include the information in his measurement of the performance of the operating segments. Content costs, which are payments made to our instructors, are the largest individual component of segment adjusted cost of revenue. We expect to increase the percentage of our revenue derived from our Enterprise segment over time, which we expect will improve our gross margins. Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands, except percentages) Enterprise segment revenue $ 127,748 $ 117,640 Enterprise segment adjusted gross profit $ 95,984 $ 84,642 Enterprise segment adjusted gross margin 75 % 72 % Consumer segment revenue $ 72,552 $ 79,206 Consumer segment adjusted gross profit $ 40,401 $ 43,208 Consumer segment adjusted gross margin 56 % 55 % For the three months ended March 31, 2025, the improvement in Enterprise segment adjusted gross margin was primarily due to the reduction in instructor revenue share from 20% to 17.5% for all subscription offerings, which was effective on January 1, 2025. In addition, customer support costs allocable to the Enterprise segment as a percentage of Enterprise revenue also decreased when compared to the same period in the prior year. The mix of other segment items allocable to the Enterprise segment as a percentage of Enterprise revenue were generally consistent when compared to the same period in the prior year. For the three months ended March 31, 2025, Consumer segment adjusted gross margin slightly increased in comparison to the same period in the prior year, due to the relative increase in consumer subscriptions as a percentage of total Consumer revenue and the reduction in instructor revenue share from 20% to 17.5% for consumer subscriptions. Non-GAAP financial metrics In addition to the measures presented in our condensed consolidated financial statements, we use the following non-GAAP financial metrics identified below to help us evaluate our business, formulate business plans, and make strategic decisions. Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin As adjusted EBITDA facilitates internal comparisons of our historical operating performance on a more consistent basis, we use this measure for business planning purposes. Accordingly, we believe that adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management team and board of directors. In addition, it provides a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons of our business, as it removes the effect of certain non-cash expenses and certain variable charges. 35 Table of Contents We define adjusted EBITDA as net loss, adjusted to exclude: interest income; interest expense; provision for income taxes; depreciation and amortization; stock-based compensation expense; other expense, net; and restructuring charges. We define adjusted EBITDA margin as adjusted EBITDA divided by revenue for the same period. The following table provides a reconciliation of net loss, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, to adjusted EBITDA (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Net loss $ (1,771) $ (18,339) Adjusted to exclude the following: Interest income (3,575) (5,728) Interest expense 15 3 Income tax provision 937 1,027 Depreciation and amortization 6,205 6,483 Stock-based compensation expense 17,967 22,705 Other income (expense), net (98) 308 Restructuring charges 1,469 Adjusted EBITDA $ 21,149 $ 6,459 The following table provides a reconciliation of net loss margin, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, to adjusted EBITDA margin (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Revenue $ 200,300 $ 196,846 Net loss $ (1,771) $ (18,339) Net loss margin (1) % (9) % Revenue $ 200,300 $ 196,846 Adjusted EBITDA $ 21,149 $ 6,459 Adjusted EBITDA margin 11 % 3 % Net loss decreased by $16.6 million in the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to the same period in the prior year. The improvement in net loss was driven by the reduction in the instructor revenue share from 20% to 17.5% for all subscription offerings (which was effective on January 1, 2025), decreases in direct marketing and stock-based compensation costs, and lower personnel costs as a result of our operational efficiency initiatives. Adjusted EBITDA improved by $14.7 million in the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to the same period in the prior year. The improvement in adjusted EBITDA was largely driven by the reduction in the instructor revenue share for all subscription offerings, as well as a decrease in direct marketing costs, and a decrease in personnel costs, following our operational efficiency initiatives. 36 Table of Contents Liquidity and capital resources As of March 31, 2025, our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash of $190.7 million and marketable securities of $167.4 million. Cash and cash equivalents includes money market funds, certain U.S. government securities purchased with original maturities of less than 90 days, time and on demand deposits, and amounts in transit from certain payment processors for credit and debit card transactions. Restricted cash totaled $1.1 million and consists of cash deposited with financial institutions held as collateral for our obligations under various facility leases. Marketable securities are comprised of investments in U.S. government securities with an original maturity greater than 90 days at the date of purchase. Our non-U.S. cash and cash equivalents have been earmarked for indefinite investment in our operations outside the U.S., and consequently no U.S. current or deferred taxes have been accrued on such amounts. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and our expected cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our cash needs for at least the next 12 months. As of March 31, 2025, there have been no material changes to our commitments and contractual obligations, in comparison to those set forth in our Annual Report, that occurred outside the ordinary course of business. Refer to Note 6 Leases and Note 7 Commitments and contingencies in our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, included in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q, for our outstanding commitments and contractual obligations as of March 31, 2025. As discussed above, we committed to a restructuring plan in September 2024. As a result, we have incurred cash-based restructuring charges, primarily consisting of one-time severance payments, salary and wages earned over required retention periods, and other benefits. The restructuring plan has been substantially completed as of March 31, 2025, though we expect to incur immaterial restructuring charges and make cash payments related to the plan through the third quarter of 2025. These charges may impact our operating cash flows until then. We plan to pay these amounts using our existing cash and cash equivalents. Over the long term, we plan to continue investing in the growth and development of our platform. If our available funds are insufficient to fund these future activities or execute on our business strategies, we may raise additional capital through equity, equity-linked or debt financing, to the extent such funding sources are available. Alternatively, we may be required to reduce expenses to manage liquidity; however, any such reductions could adversely impact our business and competitive position. Sources of funds We have historically financed our operations primarily through revenue, as well as proceeds from issuances of our capital stock. From time to time, we may explore additional financing sources, which could include equity, equity-linked or debt financing. In addition, in connection with any future acquisitions or strategic investments, we may pursue additional funding, which could include debt, equity or equity-linked financings, or a combination of these methods. We can provide no assurance that any additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms. 37 Table of Contents Use of funds Our principal uses of cash are funding our operations, capital expenditures and working capital requirements. We have generated significant net losses from our operations as reflected in our accumulated deficit of $806.8 million as of March 31, 2025. We have historically incurred operating losses and generated negative cash flows from operations as we have invested in growing our business. Our operating cash requirements may increase in the future as we continue to invest in the development of our platform and the growth of our business. We cannot be certain our revenue will grow sufficiently to offset our operating expense increases. As a result, we may need to raise additional funds to support our operations, and such funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 12,210 $ 20,969 Investing activities (7,414) (3,770) Financing activities (5,907) (66,465) Effect of foreign exchange rates on cash flows 36 (50) Net decrease in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (1,075) $ (49,316) Operating activities Cash provided by operating activities mainly consists of our net loss, adjusted for certain non-cash items, including stock-based compensation, depreciation and amortization, amortization of deferred sales commissions, as well as the effect of changes in operating assets and liabilities during each period. Our main source of operating cash is payments received from our customers. Our primary use of cash from operating activities are for personnel-related expenses, instructor payments, advertising and marketing expenses, indirect taxes, and third-party cloud infrastructure expenses. For the three months ended March 31, 2025, cash provided by operating activities was $12.2 million, primarily consisting of our net loss of $1.8 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $41.9 million and net cash outflows of $27.9 million provided by changes in our operating assets and liabilities. The main drivers of the changes in operating assets and liabilities were a $25.1 million increase in accounts receivable, a $19.5 million increase in deferred contract costs, a $10.0 million decrease in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities, and a $4.1 million increase in prepaid and other assets. These changes were offset by a $34.8 million increase in deferred revenue. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, cash provided by operating activities was $21.0 million, primarily consisting of our net loss of $18.3 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $43.4 million and net cash outflows of $4.1 million provided by changes in our operating assets and liabilities. The main drivers of the changes in operating assets and liabilities were an $18.1 million increase in deferred contract costs, an $8.0 million increase in accounts receivable, a $5.0 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets, and a $4.9 million decrease in content costs payable. These changes were offset by a $35.5 million increase in deferred revenue. Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $8.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to the timing of billings and collections on accounts receivable, and the timing of certain accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities activities, including restructuring costs accrued for in prior periods. 38 Table of Contents Investing activities For the three months ended March 31, 2025, net cash used in investing activities was $7.4 million, primarily as a result of $78.6 million in purchases of marketable securities, $2.4 in purchases of property and equipment, and $2.7 million related to capitalized software costs. These changes were partially offset by $76.4 million of proceeds received from the maturity of marketable securities. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash used in investing activities was $3.8 million, primarily as a result of $89.5 million in purchases of marketable securities and $3.3 million related to capitalized internal-use software costs, which were partially offset by $89.2 million of proceeds received from the maturity of marketable securities. Financing activities For the three months ended March 31, 2025, net cash used in financing activities was $5.9 million, primarily driven by taxes paid related to net share settlement of employee equity awards. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash used in financing activities was $66.5 million, driven by repurchases of common stock of $55.1 million and $11.6 million in taxes paid related to net share settlement of employee equity awards. Off-balance sheet arrangements During the periods presented, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Critical accounting policies and estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses, and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Actual results may differ from these estimates. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and our actual results, our future financial statements will be affected. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to those described in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report. Recent accounting pronouncements See Note 2 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for information regarding recently issued accounting pronouncements. 39 Table of Contents