Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. The risks described below are those which we believe are the material risks we face. The occurrence of any of the following risks or additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. In such case, the trading price of our Class A common stock could decline. Risk Factors Summary The following is a summary of the principal risks associated with an investment in our Class A common stock: Our recent rapid growth may not be indicative of our future growth. Our limited operating history and recent rapid growth also make it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and may increase the risk that we will not be successful. We may not be able to successfully manage our growth and, if we are not able to grow efficiently, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be harmed. Because we derive substantially all of our revenue from our automation platform, failure of this platform to satisfy customer demands could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and growth prospects. Our business depends on our existing customers renewing their licenses and purchasing additional licenses and products from us and our channel partners. Declines in renewals or purchases of additional licenses by our customers could harm our future operating results. If we are unable to attract new customers, our business, financial condition, and results of operations will be adversely affected. The markets in which we participate are competitive and, if we do not compete effectively, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be harmed. If we fail to retain and motivate members of our management team or other key employees and integrate new team members and manage management transitions, or fail to attract additional qualified personnel to support our operations, our business and future growth prospects would be harmed. Unfavorable conditions in our industry or the global economy, including geopolitical turmoil caused by the Russian military operation and related geopolitical situation in Ukraine, or reductions in IT spending, could limit our ability to grow our business and negatively affect our results of operations. A limited number of customers represent a substantial portion of our revenue and ARR. If we fail to retain these customers, our revenue and ARR could decline significantly. We rely on our channel partners and our strategic alliances to generate a substantial amount of our revenue, and if we fail to expand and manage our distribution channels, or fulfill our future service obligations, our revenue could decline and our growth prospects could suffer. If we are not able to introduce new features or services successfully and to make enhancements to our platform or products, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Real or perceived errors, failures, or bugs in our platform and products could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and growth prospects. Incorrect or improper implementation or use of our platform and products could result in customer dissatisfaction and harm our business, results of operations, financial condition, and growth prospects. We rely upon third-party providers of cloud-based infrastructure to host our cloud-based products. Any disruption in the operations of these third-party providers, limitations on capacity, or interference with our use could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents We expect fluctuations in our financial results, making it difficult to project future results, and if we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors with respect to our results of operations, our stock price could decline. If we fail to maintain and enhance our brand, our ability to expand our customer base will be impaired and our business, financial condition, and results of operations may suffer. Any failure to obtain, maintain, protect, or enforce our intellectual property and proprietary rights could impair our ability to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. We may become subject to intellectual property disputes, which are costly and may subject us to significant liability and increased costs of doing business. Our current operations are international in scope, and we plan further geographic expansion, creating a variety of operational challenges. The Russian military operation in Ukraine may produce near and longer term economic and geopolitical disruption which may harm our business. The dual class structure of our common stock has the effect of concentrating voting control with our Chief Executive Officer, Co-Founder, and Chairman, which will limit your ability to influence the outcome of important decisions. Risks Related to Our Business, Products, Operations, and Industry Our recent rapid growth may not be indicative of our future growth. Our limited operating history and recent rapid growth also make it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and may increase the risk that we will not be successful. We have experienced rapid growth. Our ARR was $925.3 million and $580.5 million at January 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, representing a growth rate of 59%. We generated revenue of $892.3 million and $607.6 million, for the fiscal years 2022 and 2021, respectively, representing a growth rate of 47%. You should not, however, rely on the ARR or revenue growth of any prior quarterly or annual fiscal period as an indication of our future performance. We were incorporated in June 2015, and as a result of our limited operating history, our ability to accurately forecast our future results of operations is limited and subject to a number of uncertainties, including our ability to plan for and model future growth. Even if our ARR and revenue continue to increase, we expect that our ARR and revenue growth rates will decline in the future as a result of a variety of factors, including the maturation of our business, increased competition, changes to technology, a decrease in the growth of our overall market, or our failure, for any reason, to continue to take advantage of growth opportunities. Overall growth of our business depends on a number of additional factors, including our ability to: price our products effectively so that we are able to attract new customers and expand sales to our existing customers; expand the functionality and use cases for the products we offer on our platform; maintain and expand the rates at which customers purchase and renew licenses to our platform; provide our customers with support that meets their needs; continue to introduce and sell our products to new markets; continue to develop new products and new functionality for our platform and successfully further optimize our existing products and infrastructure; successfully identify and acquire or invest in businesses, products, or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our platform; and increase awareness of our brand on a global basis and successfully compete with other companies. We may not successfully accomplish any of these objectives, and as a result, it is difficult for us to forecast our future results of operations. If the assumptions that we use to plan our business are incorrect or change in reaction to changes in our market, or if we are unable to maintain consistent ARR, revenue, or ARR or revenue growth, our stock price could be volatile, and it may be difficult to achieve and maintain profitability. 16 Table of Contents In addition, we expect to continue to expend substantial financial and other resources on: our technology infrastructure, including systems architecture, scalability, availability, performance, and security; our sales and marketing organization to engage our existing and prospective customers, increase brand awareness, and drive adoption of our products; product development, including investments in our product development team and the development of new products and new functionality for our platform as well as investments in further optimizing our existing products and infrastructure; acquisitions or strategic investments; our international operations and continued international expansion; and general administration, including increased legal and accounting expenses associated with being a public company. These investments may not be successful on the timeline we anticipate or at all, and may not result in increased ARR or revenue growth. For instance, we anticipate that our customers will continue to increase adoption of our SaaS products in future periods. We have offered our SaaS products for only a short period of time, and we cannot predict how increased adoption of our SaaS products will change the buying patterns of our customers or impact our future ARR or revenue. If we are unable to maintain or increase our ARR or revenue at a rate sufficient to offset the expected increase in our costs, our business, financial position, and results of operations will be harmed, and we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability over the long term. Additionally, we have encountered, and may in the future encounter, risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries, such as unforeseen operating expenses, difficulties, complications, delays, and other known or unknown factors that may result in losses in future periods. If our ARR or revenue growth does not meet our expectations in future periods, our business, financial position, and results of operations may be harmed, and we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We may not be able to successfully manage our growth and, if we are not able to grow efficiently, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be harmed. As usage of our platform capabilities grow, we will need to devote additional resources to improving and maintaining our infrastructure and integrating with third-party applications. In addition, we will need to appropriately scale our internal business systems and our services organization, including customer support and professional services, to serve our growing customer base. Any failure of or delay in these efforts could result in impaired system performance and reduced customer satisfaction, resulting in decreased sales to new customers, lower dollar-based net retention rates, the issuance of service credits, or requested refunds, which would hurt our revenue growth and our reputation. Even if we are successful in our expansion efforts, they will be expensive and complex, and require the dedication of significant management time and attention. We could also face inefficiencies or service disruptions as a result of our efforts to scale our internal infrastructure. We cannot be sure that the expansion of and improvements to our internal infrastructure will be effectively implemented on a timely basis, if at all, and such failures could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Because we derive substantially all of our revenue from our automation platform, failure of this platform to satisfy customer demands could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and growth prospects. We derive and expect to continue to derive substantially all of our revenue from our automation platform. As such, market adoption of our automation platform is critical to our continued success. Demand for our automation platform may be affected by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including continued market acceptance and integration of our platform into our customers operations, the continued volume, variety, and velocity of automated tasks that are generated through use of our platform, timing of development, and release of new offerings by our competitors, technological change, and the rate of growth in our market. Additionally, the utility of our automation platform and products relies in part on the ability of our customers to use our automation products in connection with other third-party software products that are important to our customers business. If these third-party software providers were to modify the terms of their licensing arrangements with our customers in a manner that would reduce the utility of our products, or increase the cost to use our products in connection with these third-party software products, then our customers may no longer choose to adopt our automation platform or continue to 17 Table of Contents use our products. If we are unable to continue to meet the demands of our customers and the developer community, our business operations, financial results, and growth prospects will be materially and adversely affected. Our business depends on our existing customers renewing their licenses and purchasing additional licenses and products from us and our channel partners. Declines in renewals or purchases of additional licenses by our customers could harm our future operating results. Part of our growth strategy relies on our ability to deliver significant value in a short time to our customers, so that our customers will scale the use of our platform throughout their enterprise. Accordingly, our future success depends in part on our ability to exhibit this value and sell additional licenses and products to our existing customers, and our customers renewing their licenses with us and our channel partners when the contract term expires. Our license agreements primarily have annual terms, and some of our license agreements have multi-year terms. We generally do not sell standalone licenses with a term of less than one year. However, during the term of an annual contract or the last year of a multi-year contract, our customers may enter into an additional license agreement with a termination date that is coterminous with the anniversary date of such annual contract. Our customers have no obligation to renew their licenses for our products after the expiration of their license period. We provide some customers the opportunity to use our automation platform and products for free prior to purchasing a license. We also work with our customers to identify opportunities for follow-on sales to increase our footprint within their businesses. In order for us to maintain or improve our results of operations, it is important that our customers renew or expand their licenses with us and our channel partners. We cannot accurately predict our renewals and dollar-based net retention rate given the diversity of our customer base, in terms of size, industry, and geography. Our renewals and dollar-based net retention rate may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control, including the business strength or weakness of our customers, customer usage, including the ability of our customers to quickly integrate our products into their businesses and continually find new uses for our products within their businesses, customer satisfaction with our products and platform capabilities and customer support, the utility of our platform to cost-effectively integrate with third-party software products, our prices, the capabilities and prices of competing products, mergers and acquisitions affecting our customer base, consolidation of affiliates multiple paid business accounts into a single paid business account or loss of business accounts in their entirety, the effects of global economic conditions, including the immediate and longer-term effects of Russia's military operations in Ukraine and the rapidly evolving global sanctions related thereto, or reductions in our customers spending on IT solutions or their spending levels generally, perceived security or data privacy risks from the use of our products, changes in regulatory regimes that effect our customers or our ability to sell our products, including changes to sanctions and export control regimes, or the views of the industry and public with regard to our products and RPA products generally, including as a result of increased automation and displacement of human workforces. These factors may also be exacerbated if, consistent with our growth strategy, our customer base continues to grow to encompass larger enterprises, which may also require more sophisticated and costly sales efforts. If our customers do not purchase additional licenses and products from us or our customers fail to renew their licenses, our revenue may decline and our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be harmed. If we are unable to attract new customers, our business, financial condition, and results of operations will be adversely affected. To increase our revenue, we must continue to attract new customers. Our success will depend to a substantial extent on the widespread adoption of our platform and products as an alternative to existing solutions, including as an alternative to traditional systems relying on manual tasks and processes. Many enterprises have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to integrate traditional human-driven processes into their business architecture and, therefore, may be reluctant or unwilling to migrate to an automation solution. Accordingly, the adoption of automation solutions may be slower than we anticipate. A large proportion of our target market still uses traditional systems relying on manual tasks and processes for the major part of their operations. This market may need further education on the value of automation solutions in general and our platform and products in particular, and on how to integrate them into current operations. A lack of education as to how our automation solutions operate may cause potential customers to prefer more traditional methodologies, to be cautious about investing in our platform and products, or to have difficulty integrating our platform and products into their business architecture. If we are unable to educate potential customers and change the markets readiness to accept our technology, we may experience slower than projected growth. 18 Table of Contents In addition, as our market matures, our products evolve, and competitors introduce lower cost or differentiated products that are perceived to be alternatives to our platform and products, our ability to sell licenses for our products could be impaired. Similarly, our license sales could be adversely affected if customers or users within these organizations perceive that features incorporated into competitive products reduce the need for our products or if they prefer to purchase other products that are bundled with solutions offered by other companies that operate in adjacent markets and compete with our products. As a result of these and other factors, we may be unable to attract new customers, which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The markets in which we participate are competitive and, if we do not compete effectively, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be harmed. Our platform and products provide automation solutions that our customers can integrate throughout their businesses. Accordingly, we compete with companies that provide RPA and other automation solutions, including Appian Corporation, Automation Anywhere, Inc., Blue Prism Group PLC, Celonis Inc., Kofax Inc., Kyron Systems Inc., Microsoft Corporation, NICE LTD., NTT Ltd., Pegasystems Inc., and WorkFusion, Inc. In addition to RPA software providers, we compete with automation lifecycle technology providers, such as low-code, iBPMS, iPaaS, process mining, and test automation vendors, which develop and market automation capabilities as extensions of their core platforms, and enterprise platform vendors, which provide horizontal applications and productivity tools and are acquiring, building, or investing in RPA functionality or partnering with RPA providers. We also compete with companies that provide and support the traditional systems relying on manual tasks and processes that our platform and products are designed to replace, including companies that facilitate outsourcing of such tasks and processes to lower cost workers. Our customers may also internally develop their own automated solutions to address tasks particular to their business. Our market may need further education on the value of automation solutions and our platform and products, and on how to integrate them into current operations. A lack of education as to how our automation platform and products operate may cause potential customers to prefer more traditional methodologies or their limited, internally-developed automated processes, to be cautious about investing in our platform and products, or to have difficulty integrating our platform and products into their business architecture. If we are unable to educate potential customers and change the markets readiness to accept our technology, then our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be harmed. The RPA market is one of the fastest growing enterprise software markets and is increasingly competitive. With the introduction of new technologies and market entrants, we expect that the competitive environment will remain intense going forward. For instance, as our market becomes increasingly driven by cloud-based solutions, native cloud providers may enter this market and provide competitive offerings at lower prices. Additionally, open source alternatives for automation that are offered freely may impact our ability to sell our products to certain customers who may prefer to rely on these tools at no cost. Some of our actual and potential competitors have been acquired by other larger enterprises, have made or may make acquisitions, may enter into partnerships or other strategic relationships that may provide more comprehensive products than they individually had offered or may achieve greater economies of scale than us. In addition, new entrants not currently considered to be competitors may enter the market through acquisitions, partnerships, or strategic relationships. As we look to market and sell our products and platform capabilities to potential customers with existing internal solutions, we must convince their internal stakeholders that our products and platform capabilities are superior to their current solutions. If we fail to do so, our business, results of operation and financial condition may be harmed. If we fail to continue to differentiate our platform and products from those offered by our competitors, then our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be harmed. Our competitors vary in size and in the breadth and scope of the products offered. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, more established customer relationships and installed customer bases, larger marketing budgets, and greater resources than we do. Further, other potential competitors not currently offering competitive solutions may expand their product or service offerings to compete with our products and platform capabilities. For instance, a number of our potential competitors already have close, integrated relationships with our customers and potential customers for other service offerings. If any of these potential competitors were to provide an automation solution within their current service offerings as a single, integrated solution, our customers and potential customers may choose to adopt the integrated solution due to administrative ease or other factors that are outside our control. Our current and potential competitors may also establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that may further enhance their resources and product offerings in our addressable market. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly and 19 Table of Contents effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, and customer requirements. An existing competitor or new entrant could introduce new technology that reduces demand for our products and platform capabilities. In addition to product and technology competition, we face pricing competition. Some of our competitors offer their on-premises or SaaS solutions at a lower price, which has resulted in, and may continue to result in, pricing pressures. For all of these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, and this competition could result in the failure of our platform to continue to achieve or maintain market acceptance, which would harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If we fail to retain and motivate members of our management team or other key employees and integrate new team members and manage management transitions, or fail to attract additional qualified personnel to support our operations, our business and future growth prospects would be harmed. Our success and future growth depend largely upon the continued services of our executive officers, particularly Daniel Dines, our Chief Executive Officer, Co-Founder, and Chairman, as well as our other key employees in the areas of research and development and sales and marketing. Additionally, many members of our management team have been with us for a short period of time or have served in their current roles for a short period of time, including Ashim Gupta, our Chief Financial Officer, who joined us in February 2018 and was promoted to the position of Chief Financial Officer in November 2019, Brad Brubaker, our General Counsel and Chief Legal Officer, who joined us in April 2019, Ted Kummert, our Executive Vice President of Product and Engineering, who joined us in March 2020, Bettina Koblick, our Chief People Officer, who joined us in April 2021, and Chris Weber, our Chief Business Officer, who joined us in April 2022. From time to time, there may be changes in our executive management team or other key employees resulting from hiring or the departure of these personnel. Our executive officers and other key employees are employed on an at-will basis, which means that these personnel could terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of one or more of our executive officers, or the failure by our executive team to effectively work with our employees and lead our company, could harm our business. We also are dependent on the continued service of our existing software engineers because of the complexity of our products and platform capabilities. In addition, to execute our growth plan, we must attract and retain highly-qualified personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, especially for engineers experienced in designing and developing RPA, AI, and ML applications, and experienced sales professionals. If we are unable to attract such personnel in cities where we are located, we may need to hire in other locations, which may add to the complexity and costs of our business operations. From time to time, we have experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining employees with appropriate qualifications. We recently completed our initial public offering ("IPO") and potential candidates may not perceive our compensation package, including our equity awards, as favorably as employees hired prior to our IPO. In addition, our recruiting personnel, methodology, and approach may need to be altered to address a changing candidate pool and profile. We may not be able to identify or implement such changes in a timely manner. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have. If we hire employees from competitors or other companies, their former employers may attempt to assert that these employees or we have breached their legal obligations, resulting in a diversion of our time and resources. In addition, prospective and existing employees often consider the value of the equity awards they receive in connection with their employment. If the perceived value of our equity awards declines, experiences significant volatility, or increases such that prospective employees believe there is limited upside to the value of our equity awards, it may adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain key employees. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects would be harmed. We have a history of operating losses and have not been profitable in the past. We may not be able to reach and maintain profitability in the future. We have experienced net losses in each fiscal year since inception. For the fiscal years ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, we incurred net losses of $525.6 million and $92.4 million, respectively. As of January 31, 2022 and 2021, we had an accumulated deficit of $1,495.9 million and $970.4 million, respectively. While we have experienced significant revenue growth in recent periods, and have not been profitable in prior fiscal years, we are not certain whether we will obtain a high enough volume of sales to sustain or increase our growth or reach and maintain profitability in the future. We also expect our costs and expenses to increase in future periods, which could 20 Table of Contents negatively affect our future results of operations if our revenue does not increase. In particular, we intend to continue to expend significant funds to further develop our platform, including by introducing new products and functionality, and to expand our inside sales team and enterprise sales force to drive new customer adoption, expand use cases and integrations, and support international expansion. We will also face increased compliance costs associated with growth, the expansion of our customer base, and being a public company. Our efforts to grow our business may be costlier than we expect, or the rate of our growth in revenue may be slower than we expect, and we may not be able to increase our revenue enough to offset our increased operating expenses. We may incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including the other risks described herein, and unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications, or delays, and other unknown events. If we are unable to sustain profitability, the value of our business and Class A common stock may significantly decrease. The Russian military operation in Ukraine may produce near and longer term economic and geopolitical disruption which may harm our business. Our operations in Russia, Belarus and Ukraine, although a small fraction of our overall Company, are subject to additional regulatory and political risk and additional compliance costs in connection with sanctions and other trade controls imposed by the United States and other governmental authorities in response to Russias military operations in Ukraine. These government measures include export controls restricting certain exports, re-exports, transfers or releases of commodities, software, and technology to Russia and Belarus, and sanctions targeting certain officials, individuals, entities, regions, and industries in Russia, Belarus, and Ukraine, including certain large Russian banks. We have no way to predict the progress or outcome of the situation, as the conflict and government reactions are rapidly developing and beyond our control. Prolonged unrest, military activities, or additional sanctions, should they be implemented, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and business outlook. If the conflict were to expand to the countries that border Ukraine, including Romania, our business could be adversely impacted. Although we have taken steps designed to ensure that we comply with applicable regulations and that these events will not affect the services that we offer customers, these steps involve additional compliance costs and operational costs. If the relationship between Russia and the United States significantly worsens, or if Russia, the United States, or other countries impose additional economic sanctions, supply chain restrictions, or other restrictions on doing business, and we are restricted or precluded from continuing our software development operations in Ukraine, our costs could increase, and our product development efforts could be harmed which could adversely impact our business, financial position, and results of operations. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and any related economic downturn could negatively impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic may prevent us or our employees, customers, partners, suppliers, or vendors or other parties with whom we do business from conducting certain marketing and other business activities for an indefinite period of time, which could adversely impact our business, financial position, and results of operations. Further, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, including the emergence of new variant strains of COVID-19, many state, local, and foreign governments have put in place, and others in the future may put in place or reinstate, quarantines, executive orders, shelter-in-place orders, and similar government orders and restrictions in order to control the spread of the disease. The reaction to COVID-19, including as a result of such orders or restrictions (or the perception that such orders or restrictions could occur or reoccur), have resulted in business closures, work stoppages, slowdowns, and delays, work-from-home policies, travel restrictions, and cancellation of events, among other effects that could negatively impact productivity and disrupt our operations or those of our customers, partners, suppliers, or vendors or other parties with whom we do business. In light of the uncertain and evolving situation relating to the spread of COVID-19, we have taken measures intended to help minimize the risk of the virus to our employees and the communities in which we participate. These measures included temporarily suspending all non-essential travel worldwide for our employees, canceling, postponing, or holding virtually any UiPath events and discouraging employee attendance at any industry events or in-person work-related meetings. Although we have recently reopened and may continue to selectively reopen certain of our offices, permit some travel, and hold certain in-person meetings and events in compliance with applicable government orders and public health guidelines, the majority of our employees continue to work remotely. We have a distributed workforce and our employees are accustomed to working remotely and working with others who are working remotely. However, the limitation on in-person travel and in-person meetings could negatively impact our marketing efforts, the length or variability of our sales cycles, our international operations and continued international operations, or the length of our average recruiting cycle for employees across the organization. Further, operational or other challenges could arise as we and our customers, partners, suppliers, and 21 Table of Contents vendors and other parties with whom we do business continue to operate remotely. In addition, our management team has spent, and will likely continue to spend, significant time, attention, and resources monitoring the COVID-19 pandemic and seeking to manage its effects on our business and workforce. COVID-19 could also adversely affect workforces, economies, and financial markets globally, potentially leading to an economic downturn and a reduction in customer spending on our products or an inability for our customers, partners, suppliers, or vendors or other parties with whom we do business to meet their contractual obligations. While it is not possible at this time to predict the duration and extent of the impact that COVID-19 could have on worldwide economic activity and our business in particular, the continued spread of COVID-19, especially in light of the emergence of new variant strains of COVID-19, the timing, distribution, rate of public acceptance, and efficacy of vaccines and other treatments, and the measures taken by governments, businesses, and other organizations in response to COVID-19 could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, as a public company we have provided and may in the future provide guidance about our business and future operating results, which has been and which, we expect, will be based on assumptions, estimates, and expectations as of the date such guidance is given. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature and is inherently subject to significant business, economic, and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are expected to be beyond our control, such as the global economic uncertainty and financial market conditions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. If we were to revise or fail to meet our announced guidance or expectations of analysts as a result of these factors, the price of our Class A common stock could be negatively affected. Moreover, to the extent the COVID-19 pandemic adversely affects our business, financial condition, and results of operations, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in this Risk Factors section, including, but not limited to, those related to our ability to expand within our existing customer base, acquire new customers, develop and expand our sales and marketing capabilities, and expand internationally. Unfavorable conditions in our industry or the global economy, including that caused by the Russian military operations and related geopolitical situation in Ukraine, or reductions in IT spending, could limit our ability to grow our business and negatively affect our results of operations. Our results of operations may vary based on the impact of changes in our industry or the global economy on us or our customers and potential customers. Unfavorable conditions in the economy both in the United States and abroad, including conditions resulting from changes in gross domestic product growth in the United States or abroad, financial and credit market fluctuations, international trade relations, political turmoil, natural catastrophes, outbreaks of contagious diseases (such as the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic), warfare, and terrorist attacks on the United States, Europe, the Asia Pacific region, or elsewhere, could cause a decrease in business investments, including spending on IT, disrupt the timing and cadence of key industry events, and negatively affect the growth of our business and our results of operations. For example, these types of unfavorable conditions have in the past and could in the future disrupt the timing of and attendance at key industry events, which we rely upon in part to generate sales of our products. If those events are disrupted in the future, our marketing investments, sales pipeline, and ability to generate new customers and sales of our products could be negatively and adversely affected. In addition, our competitors, many of whom are larger and have greater financial resources than we do, may respond to challenging market conditions by lowering prices in an attempt to attract our customers and may be less dependent on key industry events to generate sales for their products. In addition, the increased pace of consolidation in certain industries may result in reduced overall spending on our products. Further, to the extent there is a general economic downturn and our platform is perceived by customers and potential customers as costly, or too difficult to deploy or migrate to, our revenue may be disproportionately affected by delays or reductions in general IT spending. We cannot predict the timing, strength, or duration of any economic slowdown, instability, or recovery, generally or within any particular industry. If the economic conditions of the general economy or markets in which we operate worsen from present levels, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. A limited number of customers represent a substantial portion of our revenue and ARR. If we fail to retain these customers, our revenue and ARR could decline significantly. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue and ARR from sales to our top 10% of customers. As a result, our revenue and ARR could fluctuate materially and could be materially and disproportionately impacted by purchasing decisions of these customers or any other significant future customer. Any of our significant customers may decide to purchase less than they have in the past, may alter their purchasing patterns at any time with limited notice, or may decide not to continue to license our platform and products at all, any of which could cause our revenue and ARR to decline and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we do not 22 Table of Contents further diversify our customer base, we will continue to be susceptible to risks associated with customer concentration. We rely on our channel partners and our strategic alliances to generate a substantial amount of our revenue, and if we fail to expand and manage our distribution channels, our revenue could decline and our growth prospects could suffer. Our success significantly depends upon maintaining and growing our relationships with a variety of channel partners and we anticipate that we will continue to depend on these partners in order to grow our business. Our channel partners enable us to extend our local and global reach, in particular with smaller customers and in geographies where we have less direct sales presence. For the fiscal years ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, we derived a substantial amount of our revenue from sales through channel partners, and we expect to continue to derive a substantial amount of our revenue from channel partners in future periods. Our agreements with our channel partners are generally non-exclusive and do not prohibit them from working with our competitors or offering competing products, and many of our channel partners may have more established relationships with our competitors. If our channel partners choose to place greater emphasis on products of their own or those offered by our competitors, do not effectively market and sell our products, or fail to meet the needs of our customers, then our ability to grow our business and sell our products may be adversely affected. In addition, the loss of one or more of our larger channel partners, who may cease marketing our products with limited or no notice, and our possible inability to replace them, could adversely affect our sales. Moreover, our ability to expand our distribution channels depends in part on our ability to educate our channel partners about our platform and products, which can be complex. Our failure to recruit additional channel partners, or any reduction or delay in their sales of our products or conflicts between channel sales and our direct sales and marketing activities may harm our results of operations. Even if we are successful, these relationships may not result in greater customer usage of our products or increased revenue. We also bear the risk that our channel partners will fail to comply with U.S. or international anti-corruption or anti-competition laws, in which case we might be fined or otherwise penalized as a result of the agency relationship with such partners. In addition, the financial health of our channel partners and our continuing relationships with them are important to our success. Some of these channel partners may be unable to withstand adverse changes in economic conditions, which could result in insolvency and/or the inability of such distributors to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and services, which could negatively impact our future financial performance. In addition, weakness in the end-user market could negatively affect the cash flows of our channel partners who could, in turn, delay paying their obligations to us, which would increase our credit risk exposure. Our business could be harmed if the financial condition of some of these channel partners substantially weakened and we were unable to timely secure replacement channel partners. Further, we recently started forming strategic alliances where we license our software to a third-party alliance partner and contemporaneously agree to partner together to drive future sales of our products to third parties. For example, we may agree to fund automation practice enablement activities of the third-party alliance partner so they can create or expand their RPA practice. If the strategic alliance partner is unable to successfully create or expand their RPA practice, we may not realize the benefits we expect. These strategic alliances may also include noncancelable commitments we make to these third-party alliance partners whereby we plan to leverage the partners products or services in arrangements with third-party customers. Should we be unable to deploy the partners products or services in arrangements with third party customers, it may materially and adversely impact our gross margins, profitability and financial results in any given period. Further, these strategic alliances are a new vector for potential growth and expansion for us and these alliances may not be successful and/or as profitable as we project. If we and our channel partners fail to provide sufficient high-quality consulting, training, support, and maintenance resources to enable our customers to realize significant business value from our platform, we may see a decrease in customer adoption of our platform. Our customers sometimes request consulting and training to assist them in integrating our platform into their business, and rely on our customer support personnel to resolve issues and realize the full benefits that our platform provides. As a result, an increase in the number of customers is likely to increase demand for consulting, training, support, and maintenance related to our products. Given that our customer base and products continue to grow, we will need to provide our customers with more consulting, training, support, and maintenance to enable them to 23 Table of Contents realize significant business value from our platform. We rely on our ecosystem of partners that build, train, and certify skills on our technology, as well as deploy our technology on behalf of their customers. We have been increasing our channel partner and customer enablement through our UiPath Academy and other training initiatives designed to create an ecosystem of people that are skilled in the use and integration of our platform in business operations. However, if we and our channel partners are unable to provide sufficient high-quality consulting, training, integration, and maintenance resources, our customers may not effectively integrate our automation platform into their business or realize sufficient business value from our products to justify follow-on sales, which could impact our future financial performance. Additionally, if our channel partners fail to perform or if the brand for any of our channel partners is harmed, our customers may not choose to rely on our channel partners for consulting, training, integration, and maintenance resources as well. Further, some of our customers are industry leaders, and our contracts with them receive significant public attention. If we or our channel partners encounter problems in helping these customers implement our platform or if there is negative publicity regarding these engagements (even if unrelated to our services or products) our reputation could be harmed and our future financial performance could be negatively impacted. Finally, the investments required to meet the increased demand for our consulting services could strain our ability to deliver our consulting engagements at desired levels of profitability, thereby impacting our overall profitability and financial results. If we are not able to introduce new features or services successfully and to make enhancements to our platform or products, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our ability to attract new customers and increase revenue from existing customers depends in part on our ability to enhance and improve our platform and to introduce new features and services. To grow our business and remain competitive, we must continue to enhance our platform with features that reflect the constantly evolving nature of automation and AI technology and our customers evolving needs. We have had technical employees located in Ukraine, and the need to reallocate their work has delayed and may continue to delay the development of some product aspects. The success of new products, enhancements, and developments depends on several factors including, but not limited to: our anticipation of market changes and demands for product features, including successful product design and timely product introduction and conclusion, sufficient customer demand, cost effectiveness in our product development efforts, and the proliferation of new technologies that are able to deliver competitive products and services at lower prices, more efficiently, more conveniently, or more securely. In addition, because our platform is designed to operate with a variety of systems, applications, data, and devices, we will need to continuously modify and enhance our platform to keep pace with changes in such systems. We may not be successful in developing these modifications and enhancements. Furthermore, the addition of features and solutions to our platform will increase our research and development expenses. Any new features that we develop may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner or may not achieve the market acceptance necessary to generate sufficient revenue to justify the related expenses. It is difficult to predict customer adoption of new features. Such uncertainty limits our ability to forecast our future results of operations and subjects us to a number of challenges, including our ability to plan for and model future growth. If we cannot address such uncertainties and successfully develop new features, enhance our software, or otherwise overcome technological challenges and competing technologies, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. We also offer professional services including consulting and training and must continually adapt to assist our customers in deploying our platform in accordance with their specific automation strategies. If we cannot introduce new services or enhance our existing services to keep pace with changes in our customers deployment strategies, we may not be able to attract new customers, retain existing customers, and expand their use of our software or secure renewal contracts, which are important for the future of our business. We offer free trials and a free tier of our platform to drive awareness of our products, and encourage use and adoption. If these marketing strategies fail to lead to customers purchasing paid licenses, our ability to grow our revenue will be adversely affected. To encourage awareness, use, familiarity, and adoption of our platform and products, we offer a community edition and enterprise trial version of our software, each of which provides free, online access to certain of our products. This try-before-you-buy strategy may not be successful in driving developer education regarding or leading customers to purchase our products. Many users of our free tier may not lead to others within their organization purchasing and deploying our platform and products. To the extent that users do not become, or we are unable to successfully attract paying customers, we will not realize the intended benefits of these marketing strategies and our ability to grow our revenue will be adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents We target enterprise customers, and sales to these customers involve risks that may not be present or that are present to a lesser extent with sales to smaller entities. Our enterprise sales force focuses on sales to large enterprise, organizational, and government agency customers. As of January 31, 2022, we had 1,493 customers with ARR of $100 thousand or more and 158 customers with ARR of $1.0 million or more, which accounted for approximately 79% and 43% of our revenue, respectively, for the period then ended. As of January 31, 2021, we had 1,002 customers with ARR of $100 thousand or more and 89 customers with ARR of $1.0 million or more, which accounted for approximately 75% and 35% of our revenue, respectively, for the period then ended. See the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsKey Performance Metric for a description of ARR. Sales to large customers involve risks that may not be present or that are present to a lesser extent with sales to smaller entities, such as longer sales cycles, more complex customer requirements (and higher contractual risk as a result), substantial upfront sales costs, less favorable terms, and less predictability in completing some of our sales. For example, enterprise customers may require considerable time to evaluate and test our solution and those of our competitors prior to making a purchase decision and placing an order. A number of factors influence the length and variability of our sales cycle, including the need to educate potential customers about the uses and benefits of our automation platform and products, the discretionary nature of purchasing and budget cycles and, the competitive nature of evaluation and purchasing approval processes. As a result, the length of our sales cycle, from identification of the opportunity to deal closure, may vary significantly from customer to customer, with sales to large enterprises typically taking longer to complete and requiring greater organizational resources. Moreover, large enterprise customers often begin to deploy our products on a limited basis, but nevertheless demand configuration, integration services, and pricing negotiations, which increase our upfront investment in the sales effort with no guarantee that these customers will deploy our products widely enough across their organization to justify our substantial upfront investment. Real or perceived errors, failures, or bugs in our platform and products could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and growth prospects. Our platform and products are complex and use novel technology. Undetected errors, failures, or bugs have occurred in our platform and products in the past and may occur in the future. Our platform and products are used throughout our customers business environments and with different operating systems, system management software, applications, devices, databases, servers, storage, middleware, custom and third-party applications and equipment, and networking configurations, which may cause errors or failures in the business environment into which our platform and products are deployed. This diversity of applications increases the likelihood of errors or failures in those business environments. Despite testing by us, real or perceived errors, failures, or bugs may not be found until our customers use our platform and products. Such failures or bugs can cause reputational damage, and in some cases can affect our revenue due to the impact of service level commitments that we offer to our customers, as described below. Our platform and products also empower our customers to develop their own use cases for our automation platform and products. We cannot guarantee that these user-developed automations will be effective or that they do not include errors, failures, or bugs that then may be attributed, correctly or not, to our underlying technologies. For instance, our customers may use our products in a manner in which they were not intended and that could cause our platform or products to be implicated in any resulting errors or failures. Real or perceived errors, failures, or bugs in our platform and products could result in negative publicity, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our platform and products, regulatory investigations and enforcement actions, harm to our brand, weakening of our competitive position, claims by customers for losses sustained by them, or failure to meet the stated service level commitments in our customer agreements. In such an event, we may be required, or may choose, for customer relations or other reasons, to expend significant additional resources in order to help correct the problem. Any errors, failures, or bugs in our platform or products could also impair our ability to attract new customers, retain existing customers, or expand their use of our software, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Incorrect or improper implementation or use of our platform and products could result in customer dissatisfaction and harm our business, results of operations, financial condition, and growth prospects. Our automation platform and products and related services are designed to be deployed in a wide variety of technology environments, including in large-scale, complex technology environments across a wide range of use cases. We believe our future success will depend, at least in part, on our ability and the ability of our channel 25 Table of Contents partners to support such deployments. Implementations of our platform may be technically complicated and it may not be easy to maximize the value of our platform without proper implementation and training. If our customers are unable to implement our platform successfully, or in a timely manner, or if our customers perceive that the implementation of our platform is too complex or time consuming, customer perceptions of our company and our software may be impaired, our reputation and brand may suffer, and customers may choose not to renew their licenses or increase their purchases of our related services. We regularly train our customers and channel partners in the proper use of and the variety of benefits that can be derived from our automation platform and products to maximize its potential. We and our channel partners often work with our customers to achieve successful implementations, particularly for large, complex deployments. Our failure or the failure of our channel partners to train customers on how to efficiently and effectively deploy and use our platform and products, or our failure or the failure of our channel partners to provide effective support or professional services to our customers, whether actual or perceived, may result in negative publicity or legal actions against us. Also, as we continue to expand our customer base, any actual or perceived failure by us or our channel partners to properly provide these services will likely result in lost opportunities for follow-on sales of our related services. We rely upon third-party providers of cloud-based infrastructure to host our cloud-based products. Any disruption in the operations of these third-party providers, limitations on capacity, or interference with our use could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our continued growth depends in part on the ability of our existing and potential customers to continue to adopt and utilize our cloud-based products in conjunction with our platform. We outsource substantially all of the infrastructure relating to our cloud-based products to third-party hosting services. Customers of our cloud-based products expect to be able to access these products at any time, without material interruption or degradation of performance. Our cloud-based products depend on protecting the virtual cloud infrastructure hosted by third-party hosting services by maintaining its configuration, architecture, features, and interconnection specifications, as well as the information stored in these virtual data centers, which is transmitted by third-party internet service providers. Any disruption as a result of cyber-attacks or similar issues, or any limitation on the capacity of our third-party hosting services, could impede our ability to onboard new customers or expand the usage of our existing customers or otherwise adversely affect our business, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Due to the fact that we rely on third-party providers of cloud-based infrastructure to host our cloud-based products, it may become increasingly difficult to maintain and improve their performance, especially during peak usage times and as our cloud capabilities become more complex and our user traffic increases, because we do not control the infrastructure supporting these services. In addition, any incident affecting our third-party hosting services infrastructure that may be caused by cyber-attacks, natural disasters, fire, flood, severe storm, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failures, outbreaks of contagious diseases, military actions, terrorist or other attacks, and other similar events beyond our control could negatively affect our cloud-based products. If our cloud-based products are unavailable or if our users are unable to access our cloud-based products within a reasonable amount of time or at all, we may experience a loss of customers, lost or delayed market acceptance of our platform and products, delays in payment to us by customers, injury to our reputation and brand, legal claims against us, and the diversion of our resources. We may also incur significant costs for using alternative equipment or taking other actions in preparation for, or in reaction to, events that damage the third-party hosting services we use. In the event that our service agreements with our third-party hosting services are terminated, or there is a lapse of service, elimination of services or features that we utilize, interruption of internet service provider connectivity or damage to such facilities, we could experience interruptions in access to our cloud-based products as well as significant delays and additional expense in arranging or creating new facilities and services and/or re-architecting our cloud-based products for deployment on a different cloud infrastructure service provider, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We expect fluctuations in our financial results, making it difficult to project future results, and if we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors with respect to our results of operations, our stock price could decline. Our results of operations have fluctuated in the past and are expected to fluctuate in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, our past results may not be indicative of our 26 Table of Contents future performance. In addition to the other risks described herein, factors that may affect our results of operations include the following: fluctuations in demand for or pricing of our platform and products; fluctuations in usage of our platform and products; fluctuations in our mix of revenue from licenses and service arrangements; our ability to attract new customers; our ability to retain our existing customers; customer expansion rates and the pricing and quantity of licenses renewed; fluctuations in mix of revenue, cost of revenue, and gross margin from sales directly to end-customers and/or to strategic alliance partners and/or through channel partners; timing and amount of our investments to expand the capacity of our third-party cloud infrastructure providers; seasonality; the investment in new products and features relative to investments in our existing infrastructure and products; the timing of our customer purchases; fluctuations or delays in purchasing decisions in anticipation of new products or enhancements by us or our competitors; changes in customers budgets and in the timing of their budget cycles and purchasing decisions; our ability to control costs, including our operating expenses; the amount and timing of payment for operating expenses, particularly sales and marketing and research and development expenses, including commissions; the amount and timing of non-cash expenses, including stock-based compensation, goodwill impairments, and other non-cash charges; the amount and timing of costs associated with recruiting, training, and integrating new employees and retaining and motivating existing employees; the effects of acquisitions and their integration; general economic conditions, both domestically and internationally, as well as economic conditions specifically affecting industries in which our customers participate; the impact of new accounting pronouncements; changes in regulatory or legal environments that may cause us to incur, among other elements, expenses associated with compliance; changes in the competitive dynamics of our market, including consolidation among competitors or customers; and significant security breaches of, technical difficulties with, or interruptions to, the delivery and use of our products and platform capabilities. Any of these and other factors, or the cumulative effect of some of these factors, may cause our results of operations to vary significantly. If our quarterly on annual results of operations fall below the expectations of investors and securities analysts who follow our stock, the price of our Class A common stock could decline substantially, and we could face lawsuits that are costly and may divert managements attention, including securities class action suits. Seasonality may cause fluctuations in our sales and results of operations. Historically, we have experienced seasonality in new and renewal customer bookings, as typically we enter into a higher percentage of license agreements with new customers and renewals with existing customers in the 27 Table of Contents fourth quarter of our fiscal year. We believe that this seasonality results from the procurement, budgeting, and deployment cycles of many of our customers, particularly our enterprise customers. While we believe that this seasonality has affected and will continue to affect our quarterly or annual results, our rapid growth has largely masked seasonal trends to date. We expect that this seasonality will become more pronounced as we continue to target larger enterprise customers and as our rapid growth begins to slow. Seasonal fluctuations in our sales means that our revenue may not be consistent from period to period. Accordingly, you should not expect our quarterly or annual results to be predictive of any future period. Our key operating metric, ARR, and certain other operational data in this report are subject to assumptions and limitations and may not provide an accurate indication of our future or expected results. ARR is based on numerous assumptions and limitations, is calculated using our internal data that have not been independently verified by third parties, and may not provide an accurate indication of our future or expected results. We define ARR as annualized invoiced amounts per solution SKU from subscription licenses and maintenance obligations assuming no increases or reductions in their subscriptions. ARR does not include the costs we may incur to obtain such subscription licenses or provide such maintenance, and does not include invoiced amounts reported as perpetual licenses or professional services revenue in our consolidated statements of operations. ARR is not a forecast of revenue and does not reflect any actual or anticipated reductions in invoiced value due to contract non-renewals or service cancellations other than for specific bad debt or disputed amounts. As a result, ARR and our other operational data may not reflect our actual performance, and investors should consider these metrics in light of the assumptions used in calculating such metrics and limitations as a result thereof. In addition, investors should not place undue reliance on these metrics as an indicator of our future or expected results. Moreover, these metrics may differ from similarly titled metrics presented by other companies and may not be comparable to such other metrics. See the sections titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsKey Performance Metric for additional information regarding our ARR. We may require additional capital to support the growth of our business, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We have funded our operations since inception primarily through customer payments and net proceeds from sales of equity securities. We cannot be certain when or if our operations will generate sufficient cash to fully fund our ongoing operations, our planned investments or the growth of our business. We also intend to continue to invest heavily to grow our business to take advantage of our market opportunity rather than optimize for profitability or cash flow in the near term. For example, in the fiscal years ended January 31, 2021 and 2022, we continued our focus on demonstrating the operational leverage in our business model, while prioritizing investments to allow us to continue to achieve best-in-class growth and business scale and to capitalize on our significant market opportunity. Our planned investments to drive growth may require us to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. Additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to invest in future growth opportunities, which could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. If we incur debt, the debt holders would have rights senior to holders of Class A common stock to make claims on our assets, and the terms of any future debt could restrict our operations, including our ability to pay dividends on our Class A common stock. Furthermore, if we issue additional equity securities, stockholders will experience dilution, and the new equity securities could have rights senior to those of our Class A common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in the future will depend on numerous considerations, including factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing, or nature of any future issuances of debt or equity securities. As a result, our stockholders bear the risk of future issuances of debt or equity securities reducing the value of our Class A common stock and diluting their interests. If we fail to maintain and enhance our brand, our ability to expand our customer base will be impaired and our business, financial condition, and results of operations may suffer. We believe that maintaining and enhancing the UiPath brand is important to support the marketing and sale of our existing and future products to new customers and expand sales of our platform and products to existing customers. We also believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition in our market increases. Successfully maintaining and enhancing our brand will depend largely on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts, our ability to provide reliable products that continue to meet the needs of our customers at competitive prices, our ability to maintain our customers trust, our ability to show that our products improve efficiency for our customers while improving engagement and satisfaction of their employees, our ability to continue to develop new functionality and use cases, our ability to successfully differentiate our products and platform 28 Table of Contents capabilities from competitive products and our ability to adequately obtain and protect our trademarks and trade names. Our brand promotion activities may not generate customer awareness or yield increased revenue, and even if they do, any increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incur in building our brand. Our ability to maintain and enhance our brand may also be subject to factors that are outside of our control. For instance, media stories regarding the potential effects on employment of automation and technologies that replace traditional, human-driven systems are commonplace. Unfavorable publicity regarding the impact automation may have on unemployment could harm our brand and reputation, even if unrelated to our products. Such negative publicity could also reduce the potential demand and size of the market for our products and decrease our revenue. We may not be able to protect all of our registered or unregistered trademarks or trade names relevant to our brand and our rights may be challenged, infringed, circumvented, declared generic, lapsed, or determined to be infringing on or dilutive of other marks. If we are unable to protect our rights in these trademarks and trade names, third parties may file for registration of trademarks similar or identical to our trademarks, thereby impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to market confusion. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may suffer. If we cannot maintain our company culture as we grow, our success and our business and competitive position may be harmed. We believe our culture has been a key contributor to our success to date and that the critical nature of the technology that we develop promotes a sense of greater purpose and fulfillment in our employees. We have developed a culture in which our employees adhere to our core tenets of being humble, bold, immersed, and fast. As we continue to hire more employees to keep pace with our growth, it may become more difficult for us to find employees that exhibit these virtues or to instill them in our new employees. Any failure to preserve our culture could negatively affect our ability to retain and recruit personnel, which is critical to our growth, and to effectively focus on and pursue our corporate objectives. As we grow and develop the infrastructure of a public company, we may find it difficult to maintain these important aspects of our culture. If we fail to maintain our company culture, our business and competitive position may be harmed. Indemnity provisions in various agreements to which we are party potentially expose us to substantial liability for infringement, misappropriation, or other violation of intellectual property rights, data protection, and other losses. Our agreements with our customers and other third parties may include indemnification provisions under which we agree to indemnify or otherwise be liable to them for losses suffered or incurred as a result of claims of infringement, misappropriation, or other violation of intellectual property rights, data protection, damages caused by us to property or persons, or other liabilities relating to or arising from our software, services, or platform, our acts or omissions under such agreements, or other contractual obligations. Some of these indemnity agreements provide for uncapped liability and some indemnity provisions survive termination or expiration of the applicable agreement. Large indemnity payments could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Although we attempt to contractually limit our liability with respect to such indemnity obligations, we are not always successful and may still incur substantial liability related to them, and we may be required to cease use of certain functions of our platform or products as a result of any such claims. Any dispute with a customer or other third party with respect to such obligations could have adverse effects on our relationship with such customer or other third party and other existing or prospective customers, reduce demand for our products and services, and adversely affect our business, financial conditions, and results of operations. In addition, although we carry general liability and cyber security insurance, our insurance may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed or otherwise protect us from liabilities or damages with respect to claims alleging compromises of customer data, and any such coverage may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Acquisitions, strategic investments, partnerships, or alliances could be difficult to identify, pose integration challenges, divert the attention of management, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value, and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have in the past and may in the future seek to acquire or invest in businesses, joint ventures, products and platform capabilities, or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our services and platform capabilities, enhance our technical capabilities, or otherwise offer growth opportunities. Further, the proceeds from our IPO increased the likelihood that we will devote resources to exploring larger and more complex acquisitions and investments than we have previously attempted. Any such acquisition or investment may divert the attention of 29 Table of Contents management and cause us to incur various expenses in identifying, investigating, and pursuing suitable opportunities, whether or not the transactions are completed, and may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. In particular, we may encounter difficulties assimilating or integrating the businesses, technologies, products and platform capabilities, personnel or operations of any acquired companies, particularly if the key personnel of an acquired company choose not to work for us, their software is not easily adapted to work with our platform, or we have difficulty retaining the customers of any acquired business due to changes in ownership, management, or otherwise. For instance, we previously acquired certain products to support our platforms technology through third-party acquisitions, and we may similarly acquire additional technologies in the future to further support the development of our platform. If we cannot adequately integrate these technologies into our platform or if the acquired technologies do not perform as expected, it may harm our product development efforts. Additionally, these transactions may also disrupt our business, divert our resources, and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for development of our existing business. Any such transactions that we are able to complete may not result in any synergies or other benefits we had expected to achieve, which could result in impairment charges that could be substantial. In addition, we may not be able to find and identify desirable acquisition targets or business opportunities or be successful in entering into an agreement with any particular strategic partner. These transactions could also result in dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, if the resulting business from such a transaction fails to meet our expectations, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected or we may be exposed to unknown risks or liabilities. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be significantly hindered by the occurrence of a natural disaster, military action, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event. Our business operations may be susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, unusual weather conditions, power loss, telecommunications failures, military actions, terrorist attacks, and other events beyond our control. Natural disasters including tornados, hurricanes, floods, and earthquakes may damage the facilities of our customers or those of their suppliers or retailers or their other operations, which could lead to reduced revenue for our customers and thus reduced sales. In addition, a substantial portion of our operations rely on support from our headquarters in New York City and our office in Bucharest, Romania. To the extent that fire, floods, unusual weather conditions, power loss, telecommunications failures, military actions, terrorist attacks, and other events beyond our control materially impacts our ability to operate those offices, it may have a material impact on our business operations as a whole. To the extent that such events disrupt our business or the business of our current or prospective customers, or adversely impact our reputation, such events could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Any future litigation against us could be costly and time-consuming to defend. We are, and may in the future become, subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business, such as claims brought by our customers in connection with commercial disputes or employment claims made by our current or former employees. Litigation might result in substantial costs and may divert managements attention and resources, which might seriously harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Insurance might not cover such claims, might not provide sufficient payments to cover all the costs to resolve one or more such claims, and might not continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. A claim brought against us that is uninsured or underinsured could result in unanticipated costs, potentially harming our business, financial position, and results of operations. Risks Related to Data Privacy and Cybersecurity We are subject to stringent and changing obligations related to data privacy and security, including laws, regulations and standards, information security policies, and contractual obligations. Our actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations could lead to regulatory investigations or actions; litigation; fines and penalties; disruptions of our business operations; reputational harm; loss of revenue or profits; loss of customers or sales; and other adverse business consequences. In the ordinary course of business, we collect, receive, access, generate, transfer, store, disclose, share, make accessible, protect, secure, dispose of, use, share and otherwise process personal data and other sensitive information, including proprietary and confidential business data, trade secrets, intellectual property, sensitive third- 30 Table of Contents party data about employees, contractors, customers, suppliers, and others. Our data processing activities subject us to numerous data privacy and security obligations, such as various laws, codes, regulations, industry standards, external and internal privacy and security policies, contracts, and other obligations that govern the processing of personal data by us and on our behalf. In the United States, federal, state, and local governments have enacted numerous data privacy and security laws, including data breach notification laws, personal data privacy laws, and consumer protection laws. The CCPA imposes obligations on covered businesses. These obligations include, but are not limited to, providing specific disclosure in privacy notices and affording California residents certain rights related to their personal data. The CCPA allows for statutory fines for noncompliance (up to $7,500 per violation). In addition, the California Privacy Rights Act of 2020, or CPRA, which goes into effect on January 1, 2023 will expands the CCPA. Additionally, the CPRA establishes new California Privacy Protection Agency to implement and enforce the law. In addition, data privacy and security laws have been proposed at the federal, state, and local levels in recent years, which could further complicate compliance efforts. For example, Virginia and Colorado have similarly enacted comprehensive privacy laws, the Virginia Consumer Data Protection Act and Colorado Privacy Act, respectively, which emulate the CCPA and CPRA in many respects. The Virginia Consumer Data Protection Act takes effect on January 1, 2023, and the Colorado Privacy Act takes effect on July 1, 2023. Outside the United States, an increasing number of laws, regulations, and industry standards apply to data privacy and security. For example, under the EU GDPR, government regulators may impose temporary or definitive bans on data processing, as well as fines of up to 20 million euros or 4% of annual global revenue, whichever is greater. Further, individuals may initiate litigation related to processing of their personal data. Furthermore, in Europe, there is a proposed regulation related to artificial intelligence (AI) that, if adopted, could impose onerous obligations related to the use of AI-related systems. We may have to change our business practices to comply with such obligations. In Canada, the PIPEDA and various related provincial laws, as well as Canadas Anti-Spam Legislation (CASL), applies to our operations. As another example, the LGPD applies to our operations. The LGPD broadly regulates processing personal data of individuals in Brazil and imposes compliance obligations and penalties comparable to those of the EU GDPR. We also target customers in Asia and have operations in Japan, Singapore, India, Hong Kong, and Australia and are subject to new and emerging data privacy regimes in Asia, including Chinas Personal Information Protection Law, Japans Act on the Protection of Personal Information, and Singapores Personal Data Protection Act. In addition, privacy advocates and industry groups have proposed, and may propose, standards with which we are legally or contractually bound to comply. Certain jurisdictions have enacted data localization laws and cross-border personal data transfer laws, which could make it more difficult to transfer information across jurisdictions (such as transferring or receiving personal data that originates in the EU or in other foreign jurisdictions). Existing mechanisms that facilitate cross-border personal data transfers may change or be invalidated. For example, absent appropriate safeguards or other circumstances, the EU GDPR generally restricts the transfer of personal data to countries outside of the European Economic Area (EEA) that the European Commission does not consider to provide an adequate level of data privacy and security, such as the United States. The European Commission released a set of Standard Contractual Clauses (SCCs) that are designed to be a valid mechanism to facilitate personal data transfers out of the EEA to these jurisdictions. Currently, these SCCs are a valid mechanism to transfer personal data outside of the EEA, but there exists some uncertainty regarding whether the SCCs will remain a valid mechanism. Additionally, the SCCs impose additional compliance burdens, such as conducting transfer impact assessments to determine whether additional security measures are necessary to protect the at-issue personal data. In addition, Switzerland and the UK similarly restrict personal data transfers outside of those jurisdictions to countries such as the United States that do not provide an adequate level of personal data protection, and certain countries outside Europe (e.g. Russia, China, Brazil) have also passed or are considering laws requiring local data residency, or otherwise impeding the transfer of personal data across borders, any of which could increase the cost and complexity of doing business. If we cannot implement a valid compliance mechanism for cross-border data transfers, we may face increased exposure to regulatory actions, substantial fines, and injunctions against processing or transferring personal data from Europe or other foreign jurisdictions. The inability to import personal data to the United States could significantly and negatively impact our business operations, including by limiting our ability to conduct clinical trial activities in Europe and elsewhere; limiting our ability to collaborate with parties that are subject to such cross-border data transfer or localization laws; or requiring us to increase our personal data processing capabilities and infrastructure in foreign jurisdictions at significant expense. 31 Table of Contents Our obligations related to data privacy and security are quickly changing in an increasingly stringent fashion, creating some uncertainty as to the effective future legal framework. Additionally, these obligations may be subject to differing applications and interpretations, which may be inconsistent or conflict among jurisdictions. Preparing for and complying with these obligations requires significant resources and may necessitate changes to our information technologies, systems, and practices and to those of any third parties that process personal data on our behalf. In addition, these obligations may require us to change our business model. Our business model materially depends on our ability to process personal data, so we are particularly exposed to the risks associated with the rapidly changing legal landscape. For example, we may be at heightened risk of regulatory scrutiny, and any changes in the regulatory framework could require us to fundamentally change our business model. Moreover, despite our efforts, our personnel or third parties upon whom we rely may fail to comply with such obligations, which could negatively impact our business operations and compliance posture. For example, any failure by a third-party processor to comply with applicable law, regulations, or contractual obligations could result in adverse effects, including inability to or interruption in our ability to operate our business and proceedings against us by governmental entities or others. If we fail, or are perceived to have failed, to address or comply with data privacy and security obligations, we could face significant consequences. These consequences may include, but are not limited to, government enforcement actions (e.g., investigations, fines, penalties, audits, inspections, and similar); litigation (including class- related claims); additional reporting requirements and/or oversight; bans on processing personal data; orders to destroy or not use personal data; and imprisonment of company officials. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, or financial condition, including but not limited to: loss of customers; interruptions or stoppages in our business operations (including, interruptions or stoppages of data collection needed to train our algorithms); inability to process personal data or to operate in certain jurisdictions; limited ability to develop or commercialize our products; expenditure of time and resources to defend any claim or inquiry; adverse publicity; or revision or restructuring of our operations. Additionally, we publish privacy policies and other documentation regarding our processing of personal data. Although we endeavor to comply with our privacy policies and other data protection obligations, we may at times fail to do so or may be perceived to have failed to do so. Moreover, despite our efforts, we may not be successful in achieving compliance if our employees, contractors, service providers, or vendors fail to comply with our published policies and documentation. Such failures can subject us to potential foreign, federal, state, and local action if they are found to be deceptive, unfair, or misrepresentative of our actual practices. Claims that we have violated individuals privacy rights or failed to comply with privacy policies and other data protection obligations, even if we are not found liable, could be expensive and time-consuming to defend and could result in adverse publicity that could harm our business. We have in the past and may in the future receive inquiries or be subject to investigations by international government entities regarding, among other things, our privacy, data protection, and information security practices. We have been subject to investigations by regulators in Romania and Turkey in connection with a security incident affecting our information technology systems in 2020; however, we have remediated the incident and notified all affected individuals and relevant government authorities as required under applicable privacy laws. The result of these investigations could impact our brand reputation, subject us to monetary remedies and costs, interrupt or require us to change our business practices, divert resources and the attention of management from our business, or subject us to other remedies that adversely affect our business. If our information technology systems or data, or those of third parties upon which we rely are or were compromised, we could experience adverse consequences resulting from such compromise, including but not limited to regulatory investigations or actions; litigation; fines and penalties; disruptions of our business operations; reputational harm; loss of revenue or profits; loss of customers or sales; and other adverse consequences. In the ordinary course of our business, we may process proprietary, confidential, and sensitive data, including personal data (such as health-related data), intellectual property, and trade secrets. We may rely on third-party service providers, sub-processors, and technologies to operate critical business systems to process sensitive information in a variety of contexts, including without limitation, third-party providers of cloud-based infrastructure, encryption and authentication technology, employee email, content delivery to customers, and other functions. Our ability to monitor these third parties information security practices is limited, and these third parties may not have 32 Table of Contents adequate information security measures in place. We may share or receive sensitive information with or from third parties. Cyberattacks, malicious internet-based activity, and online and offline fraud are prevalent and continue to increase. These threats come from a variety of sources, including traditional computer hackers, employee theft or misuse, sophisticated nation-state and nation-state supported actors. We and the third parties upon which we rely may be subject to a variety of evolving threats, including but not limited to social- engineering attacks (including through phishing attacks), malicious code (such as viruses and worms), malware (including as a result of advanced persistent threat intrusions), denial-of-service attacks (such as credential stuffing), personnel misconduct or error, ransomware attacks, supply-chain attacks, software bugs, server malfunctions, software or hardware failures, loss of data or other information technology assets, adware, telecommunications failures, and other similar threats. Ransomware attacks, including by organized criminal threat actors, nation-states, and nation-state-supported actors, are becoming increasingly prevalent and severe and can lead to significant interruptions in our operations, loss of data and income, reputational harm, and diversion of funds. Extortion payments may alleviate the negative impact of a ransomware attack, but we may be unwilling or unable to make such payments due to, for example, applicable laws or regulations prohibiting such payments. Similarly, supply-chain attacks have increased in frequency and severity, and we cannot guarantee that third parties and infrastructure in our supply chain or our third-party partners supply chains have not been compromised or that they do not contain exploitable defects or bugs that could result in a breach of or disruption to our information technology systems (including our products/services) or the third- party information technology systems that support us and our services. We are incorporated into the supply chain of a large number of companies worldwide and, as a result, if our solutions are compromised, a significant number of companies could be simultaneously affected. The potential liability and associated consequences we could suffer as a result of such a large-scale event could be catastrophic and result in irreparable harm. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, our employees have been working remotely, which poses increased risks to our information technology systems and data, as more of our employees work from home, utilizing network connections outside our premises. Future business transactions (such as acquisitions or integrations) could expose us to additional cybersecurity risks and vulnerabilities, as our systems could be negatively affected by vulnerabilities present in acquired or integrated entities systems and technologies. Any of the previously identified or similar threats could cause a security incident or other interruption. A security incident or other interruption could result in unauthorized, unlawful, or accidental acquisition, modification, destruction, loss, alteration, encryption, disclosure of, or access to our sensitive information. A security incident or other interruption could disrupt our ability (and that of third parties upon whom we rely) to provide our platform. While we have implemented security measures designed to protect against security incidents, there can be no assurance that these measures will be effective. We may be unable in the future to detect vulnerabilities in our information technology systems because such threats and techniques change frequently, are often sophisticated in nature, and may not be detected until after a security incident has occurred. Despite our efforts to identify and remediate vulnerabilities, if any, in our information technology systems (including our products), our efforts may not be successful. Further, we may experience delays in developing and deploying remedial measures designed to address any such identified vulnerabilities. Applicable data privacy and security obligations may require us to notify relevant stakeholders of security incidents. Such disclosures are costly, and the disclosures or the failure to comply with such requirements could lead to adverse consequences. If we (or a third party upon whom we rely) experience a security incident or are perceived to have experienced a security incident, we may experience adverse consequences. These consequences may include: government enforcement actions (for example, investigations, fines, penalties, audits, and inspections); additional reporting requirements and/or oversight; restrictions on processing sensitive information (including personal data); litigation (including class claims); indemnification obligations; negative publicity; reputational harm; monetary fund diversions; interruptions in our operations (including availability of data); financial loss; and other similar harms. Security incidents and attendant consequences may cause customers to stop using our platform and products, deter new customers from using our platform and products, and negatively impact our ability to grow and operate our business. A security breach may cause us to breach customer contracts. Our agreements with certain customers may require us to use industry-standard or reasonable measures to safeguard personal information. We also may be subject to laws that require us to use industry-standard or reasonable security measures to safeguard personal information. Our contracts may not contain limitations of liability, and even where they do, there can be no assurance that limitations of liability in our contracts are sufficient to protect us from liabilities, damages, or claims related to our data privacy and security obligations. A security breach could lead to 33 Table of Contents claims by our customers or other relevant stakeholders that we have failed to comply with such legal or contractual obligations. As a result, we could be subject to legal action or our customers could end their relationships with us. There can be no assurance that the limitations of liability in our contracts would be enforceable or adequate or would otherwise protect us from liabilities or damages, and in some cases our customer agreements do not limit our remediation costs or liability with respect to data breaches. Litigation resulting from security breaches may adversely affect our business. Unauthorized access to our platform, systems, networks, or physical facilities, or those of our vendors, could result in litigation with our customers or other relevant stakeholders. These proceedings could force us to spend money in defense or settlement, divert managements time and attention, increase our costs of doing business, or adversely affect our reputation. We could be required to fundamentally change our business activities and practices or modify our products and/or platform capabilities in response to such litigation, which could have an adverse effect on our business. If a security breach were to occur, and the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of personal information was disrupted, we could incur significant liability, or our platform, systems, or networks may be perceived as less desirable, which could negatively affect our business and damage our reputation. We may not have adequate insurance coverage for security incidents or breaches. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceeds our available insurance coverage, or results in changes to our insurance policies (including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements), could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, we cannot be sure that our existing insurance coverage and coverage for errors and omissions will continue to be available on acceptable terms or that our insurers will not deny coverage as to any future claim. Risks Related to Regulatory Compliance and Governmental Matters We are subject to anti-corruption, anti-bribery, anti-money laundering, and similar laws and noncompliance with such laws can subject us to criminal or civil liability and harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") U.S. domestic bribery laws, the United Kingdom Bribery Act, and other anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws in the countries in which we conduct activities. Due to the international scope of our operations, we must comply with these laws in each jurisdiction where we operate. Additionally, many anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA, have long-arm statutes that can expand the applicability of these laws to our operations worldwide. Accordingly, we must incur significant operational costs to support our ongoing compliance with anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws at all levels of our business. If we fail to comply with these laws we may be subject to significant penalties. Anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws have been enforced aggressively in recent years and are interpreted broadly to generally prohibit companies, their employees and their third-party intermediaries from authorizing, offering, or providing, directly or indirectly, improper payments or benefits to recipients in the public or private sector. As we increase our international sales and business and sales to the public sector, we may engage with business partners and third-party intermediaries to market our products and to obtain necessary permits, licenses, and other regulatory approvals. In addition, we or our third-party intermediaries may have direct or indirect interactions with officials and employees of government agencies or state-owned or affiliated entities. We can be held liable for the corrupt or other illegal activities of these third-party intermediaries, our employees, representatives, contractors, partners, and agents, even if we do not explicitly authorize such activities. While we have policies and procedures to address compliance with such laws, we cannot assure you that all of our employees and agents will not take actions in violation of our policies and applicable law, for which we may be ultimately held responsible. As we increase our international sales and business, our risks under these laws may increase. Detecting, investigating, and resolving actual or alleged violations of anti-corruption laws can require a significant diversion of time, resources, and attention from senior management. In addition, noncompliance with anti-corruption, anti-bribery, or anti-money laundering laws could subject us to whistleblower complaints, investigations, sanctions, settlements, prosecution, enforcement actions, fines, damages, other civil or criminal penalties or injunctions, suspension or debarment from contracting with certain persons, reputational harm, adverse media coverage, and other collateral consequences. If any subpoenas or investigations are launched, or governmental or other sanctions are imposed, or if we do not prevail in any possible civil or criminal proceeding, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be harmed. In addition, responding to any action will 34 Table of Contents likely result in a materially significant diversion of managements attention and resources and significant defense costs and other professional fees. Sales to government entities and highly regulated organizations are subject to a number of challenges and risks. We currently sell, and anticipate continuing to sell, to U.S. federal, state, and local, as well as foreign, governmental agency customers, as well as to customers in highly regulated industries such as financial services and healthcare. Sales to such customers are subject to a number of challenges and risks. Selling to such customers can be highly competitive, expensive, and time-consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense without any assurance that these efforts will generate a sale. These current and prospective customers may also be required to comply with stringent regulations in connection with purchasing and implementing our platform and products or particular regulations regarding third-party vendors that may be interpreted differently by different customers. In addition, regulatory agencies may impose requirements on third-party vendors generally, or our company in particular, that we may not be able to, or may not choose to, meet. In addition, government customers and customers in these highly regulated industries often have a right to conduct audits of our systems, products, and practices. In the event that one or more customers determine that some aspect of our business does not meet regulatory requirements, we may be limited in our ability to continue or expand our business. In addition, if our platform and products do not meet the standards of new or existing regulations, we may be in breach of our contracts with these customers, allowing them to terminate their agreements. Government contracting requirements may also change and in doing so restrict our ability to sell into the government sector until we have attained the requisite approvals. Government demand and payment for our products are affected by public sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations, with funding reductions or delays adversely affecting public sector demand for our products. These customers may also be subject to a rapidly evolving regulatory framework that may implicate their ability to use our platform and products. Moreover, changes in the underlying statutory and regulatory conditions that affect these types of customers could harm our ability to efficiently provide them access to our platform and to grow or maintain our customer base. If we are unable to enhance our platform and products to keep pace with evolving customer requirements, or if new technologies emerge that are able to deliver competitive products at lower prices, more efficiently, more conveniently, or more securely than our platform, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Further, governmental and highly regulated entities may demand contract terms that differ from our standard arrangements and are less favorable than terms agreed with private sector customers, including preferential pricing or most favored nation terms and conditions or are contract provisions that are otherwise time-consuming and expensive to satisfy. In the United States, applicable federal contracting regulations change frequently, and the President may issue executive orders requiring federal contractors to adhere to new compliance requirements after a contract is signed. If we undertake to meet special standards or requirements and do not meet them, we could be subject to significant liability from our customers or regulators. Even if we do meet these special standards or requirements, the additional costs associated with providing our platform to government and highly regulated customers could harm our operating results. In addition, engaging in sales activities to foreign governments introduces additional compliance risks specific to the FCPA, the United Kingdom Bribery Act, and other similar statutory requirements prohibiting bribery and corruption in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Such entities may have statutory, contractual, or other legal rights to terminate contracts with us or our partners for convenience or for other reasons. Any such termination may adversely affect our ability to contract with other government customers as well as our reputation, business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could impair our ability to compete in international markets or subject us to liability if we violate the controls. Our business activities are subject to various export, import, and trade and economic sanction laws and regulations, including, among others, the U.S. Export Administration Regulations, administered by the U.S. Department of Commerces Bureau of Industry and Security, and economic and trade sanctions regulations maintained by the U.S. Department of the Treasurys Office of Foreign Assets Control, which we refer to collectively as Trade Controls. Trade Controls may prohibit or restrict the sale or supply of certain products, including encryption items and other technology, and services to certain governments, persons, entities, countries, and territories, including those that are the target of comprehensive sanctions. 35 Table of Contents While we have implemented controls designed to promote and achieve compliance with applicable Trade Controls, our platform and products may have been provided in the past, and could in the future be provided in violation of, such laws, despite the precautions we take. Any failure to comply with applicable Trade Controls may materially affect us through reputational harm, as well as other negative consequences, including government investigations and penalties. Accordingly, we must incur significant operational costs to support our ongoing compliance with Trade Controls at all levels of our business. Also, various countries, in addition to the United States, have enacted Trade Controls that could limit our ability to distribute our platform and products or could limit our customers ability to implement our platform and products in those countries. Changes in our platform or products or future changes in Trade Controls may create delays in the introduction of our platform and products in international markets or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our platform and products to certain countries, governments, or persons altogether. Any change in Trade Controls could result in decreased use of our platform and products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our platform and products to, existing or potential customers. Any decreased use of our platform or products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our platform and products would adversely affect our business, results of operations, and growth prospects. The evolving geopolitical situation in Ukraine has resulted in Trade Controls being implemented by the United States, the United Kingdom, the EU, Australia, and Japan and other countries against officials, individuals, entities, regions, and industries in Russia, Ukraine, and Belarus, as well as counter sanctions by Russia. Such Trade Controls and any further restrictions that may be promulgated by relevant governmental authorities could adversely affect our business. See "Risks Related to Our Business, Products, Operations, and IndustryThe Russian military operation in Ukraine may produce near and longer term economic and geopolitical disruption which may harm our business." for additional information. Risks Related to our Intellectual Property Any failure to obtain, maintain, protect, or enforce our intellectual property and proprietary rights could impair our ability to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. Our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to obtain, maintain, protect, and enforce our intellectual property rights, including our proprietary technology, know-how, and our brand. We rely on a combination of trademarks, trade secret laws, patents, copyrights, service marks, contractual restrictions, and other intellectual property laws and confidentiality procedures to establish and protect our proprietary rights. However, the steps we take to obtain, maintain, protect, and enforce our intellectual property rights may be inadequate. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights if, for example, we are unable to enforce our rights against infringement or misappropriation, or if we do not detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors may gain access to our proprietary technology and develop and commercialize substantially identical products, services, or technologies and our business, financial condition, results of operations, or prospects may be harmed. In addition, defending our intellectual property rights may entail significant expense. Any patent, trademark, or other intellectual property rights that we have or may obtain may be challenged or circumvented by others or invalidated or held unenforceable through administrative processes, including re-examination, inter partes review, interference, and derivation proceedings and equivalent proceedings in foreign jurisdictions (e.g., opposition, invalidation, and cancellation proceedings) or litigation. Moreover, there can be no assurance that our pending patent applications will result in issued patents. Even if we continue to seek patent protection in the future, we may be unable to obtain or maintain patent protection for our technology. In addition, any patents issued from pending or future patent applications or licensed to us in the future may not be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technologies, may not provide us with competitive advantages, or may be successfully challenged by third parties. The United States Patent and Trademark Office and various foreign governmental patent and trademark agencies also require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment, and other similar provisions during the patent and trademark application process and after a patent or trademark registration has issued. There are situations in which noncompliance can result in abandonment or lapse of the patent, patent application, or trademark filing, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent or trademark rights in the relevant jurisdiction. If this occurs, our competitors might be able to enter the market. Furthermore, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability, and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy our 36 Table of Contents brands, products and platform capabilities, and use information that we regard as proprietary to create brands and products that compete with ours. Effective patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret protection may not be available to us or commercially feasible in every country in which our products are available. Further, intellectual property law, including statutory and case law, particularly in the United States, is constantly developing, and any changes in the law could make it harder for us to enforce our rights. The value of our intellectual property could diminish if others assert rights in or ownership of our trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property rights, or adopt trademarks that are similar to our trademarks. We may be unable to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In some cases, as noted below, litigation or other actions may be necessary to protect or enforce our trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property rights against infringement or misappropriation. As we expand our international activities, our exposure to unauthorized copying and use of our products and platform capabilities and proprietary information will likely increase. Moreover, policing unauthorized use of our technologies, trade secrets, and intellectual property may be difficult, expensive, and time-consuming, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the United States and where mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be weak or inadequate. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon, misappropriating, or otherwise violating our intellectual property rights. Any of the foregoing could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may become subject to intellectual property disputes, which are costly and may subject us to significant liability and increased costs of doing business. We are from time-to-time subject to intellectual property disputes. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to develop and commercialize our products and services without infringing, misappropriating, or otherwise violating the intellectual property rights of third parties. However, we may not be aware that our products or services are infringing, misappropriating, or otherwise violating third-party intellectual property rights and such third parties may bring claims alleging such infringement, misappropriation, or violation. As one example, there may be issued patents of which we are not aware, held by third parties that, if found to be valid and enforceable, could be alleged to be infringed by our current or future technologies or products. There also may be pending patent applications of which we are not aware that may result in issued patents, which could be alleged to be infringed by our current or future technologies or products. Because patent applications can take years to issue and are often afforded confidentiality for some period of time there may currently be pending applications, unknown to us, that later result in issued patents that could cover our current or future technologies or products. Lawsuits can be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and can divert managements time and attention. The software industry in which we operate is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, and other intellectual and proprietary rights. Companies in the software industry are often required to defend against litigation claims based on allegations of infringement, misappropriation, or other violations of intellectual property rights. Our technologies may not be able to withstand any third-party claims against their use. In addition, many companies have the capability to dedicate substantially greater resources to enforce their intellectual property rights and to defend claims that may be brought against them, than we can. In a patent infringement claim against us, we may assert, as a defense, that we do not infringe the relevant patent claims, that the patent is invalid, or both. The strength of our defenses may depend on the patents asserted, the interpretation of these patents, or our ability to invalidate the asserted patents. However, we could be unsuccessful in advancing non-infringement and/or invalidity arguments in our defense. In the United States, issued patents enjoy a presumption of validity, and the party challenging the validity of a patent claim must present clear and convincing evidence of invalidity, which is a high burden of proof. Conversely, the patent owner need only prove infringement by a preponderance of the evidence, which is a lower burden of proof. We do not currently have a large number of issued patents, which could prevent us from deterring patent infringement claims through our own patent portfolio, and our competitors and others may now and in the future have significantly larger and more mature patent portfolios than we have. Any litigation may also involve patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners that have no relevant product revenue, and therefore, our patents may provide little or no deterrence as we would not be able to assert them against such entities or individuals. An adverse result in any infringement or misappropriation proceeding could subject us to significant damages, injunctions, and reputational harm. If a third party is able to obtain an injunction preventing us from accessing such third-party intellectual property rights, or if we cannot license or develop alternative technology for any infringing aspect of our business, we may be forced to limit or stop sales of our relevant products and platform capabilities or cease business activities related to such intellectual property. Although we carry general liability and intellectual property insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to indemnify 37 Table of Contents us for all liability that may be imposed. We cannot predict the outcome of lawsuits and cannot ensure that the results of any such actions will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Any intellectual property litigation to which we might become a party, or for which we are required to provide indemnification, may require us to do one or more of the following: cease selling or using products or services that incorporate the intellectual property rights that we allegedly infringe, misappropriate, or violate; make substantial payments for legal fees, settlement payments, or other costs or damages; obtain a license, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all, to sell or use the relevant technology; redesign the allegedly infringing products to avoid infringement, misappropriation, or violation, which could be costly, time-consuming, or impossible; rebrand our products and services and/or be prevented from selling some of our products or services if third parties successfully oppose or challenge our trademarks or successfully claim that we infringe, misappropriate or otherwise violate their trademarks or other intellectual property rights; and limit the manner in which we use our brands, or prevent us from using our brands in particular jurisdictions. Even if the claims do not result in litigation or are resolved in our favor, these claims, and the time and resources necessary to resolve them, could divert the resources of our management and harm our business and operating results. Moreover, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions, or other interim proceedings or developments and if securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock. The occurrence of infringement and misappropriation claims may grow as the market for our platform and products grows. Accordingly, our exposure to damages resulting from infringement claims could increase and this could further exhaust our financial and management resources. Any of the foregoing could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may become involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our intellectual property, which could be expensive, time consuming, and unsuccessful. Third parties, including our competitors, could be infringing, misappropriating, or otherwise violating our intellectual property rights. In order to protect our intellectual property rights, we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights and to protect our trade secrets. Litigation brought to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly, time-consuming, and distracting to management, and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. Further, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims, and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights and if such defenses, counterclaims, or countersuits are successful, we could lose valuable intellectual property rights. An adverse determination of any litigation proceedings could put our intellectual property at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our related patents, patent applications, and trademark filings at risk of being invalidated, not issuing, or being cancelled. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential or sensitive information could be compromised by disclosure in the event of litigation. In addition, during the course of litigation there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions, or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Our inability to protect our proprietary technology against unauthorized copying or use, as well as any costly litigation or diversion of our managements attention and resources, could delay further sales or the implementation of our products and platform capabilities, impair the functionality of our products and platform capabilities, delay introductions of new solutions, result in our substituting inferior or more costly technologies into our products, or injure our reputation. Any of the foregoing could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 38 Table of Contents If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets, our business and competitive position would be harmed. We rely heavily on trade secrets and confidentiality agreements to protect our unpatented know-how, technology, and other proprietary information, and to maintain our competitive position. However, trade secrets and know-how can be difficult to protect. We seek to protect these trade secrets and other proprietary technology, in part, by entering into non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with parties who have access to them, such as our employees, consultants, and other third parties, including suppliers and other partners. However, we cannot guarantee that we have entered into such agreements with each party that has or may have had access to our proprietary information, know-how, and trade secrets. Moreover, no assurance can be given that these agreements will be effective in controlling access to, distribution, use, misuse, misappropriation, reverse engineering, or disclosure of our proprietary information, know-how, and trade secrets. Further, these agreements may not prevent our competitors from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products and platform capabilities. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. For example, past employees have sought to misappropriate source code relevant to certain of our products. While we have taken steps to enjoin misappropriation that we are aware of, such steps may not ultimately be successful and we may not be aware of all such misappropriation. Any of the foregoing could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may be subject to claims that our employees, consultants, or advisors have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their current or former employers or claims asserting ownership of what we regard as our own intellectual property. Many of our employees and consultants are currently or were previously employed at other companies in our field, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although we try to ensure that our employees and consultants do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that we or these individuals have used or disclosed intellectual property, including trade secrets or other proprietary information, of any such individuals current or former employer. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. Even if we are successful in defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. In addition, while it is our policy to require our employees and contractors who may be involved in the conception or development of intellectual property to execute agreements assigning such intellectual property to us, we may be unsuccessful in executing such an agreement with each party who, in fact, conceives or develops intellectual property that we regard as our own. The assignment of intellectual property rights may not be self-executing, or the assignment agreements may be breached, and we may be forced to bring claims against third parties, or defend claims that they may bring against us, to determine the ownership of what we regard as our intellectual property. Any of the foregoing could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We use open source software in our products, which could negatively affect our ability to sell our services or subject us to litigation or other actions. We use open source software in our products and we expect to continue to incorporate open source software in our services in the future. Few of the licenses applicable to open source software have been interpreted by courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. Moreover, we cannot ensure that we have not incorporated additional open source software in our products in a manner that is inconsistent with the terms of the applicable license or our current policies and procedures. If we fail to comply with these licenses, we may be subject to certain requirements, including requirements that we offer our products that incorporate the open source software for no cost, that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon, incorporating, or using the open source software and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of applicable open source licenses. In addition, although we employ open source software license screening measures, if we were to combine our proprietary software products with open source software in a certain manner we could, under certain open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software products. If an author or other third party that distributes such open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of these licenses, we could be required to incur significant legal expenses defending against such allegations and could be subject to significant damages, enjoined from the sale of 39 Table of Contents our products that contained the open source software and required to comply with onerous conditions or restrictions on these products, which could disrupt the distribution and sale of these products. From time to time, there have been claims challenging the ownership rights in open source software against companies that incorporate it into their products and the licensors of such open source software provide no warranties or indemnities with respect to such claims. As a result, we and our customers could be subject to lawsuits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. Litigation could be costly for us to defend, have a negative effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, or require us to devote additional research and development resources to change our products. Some open source projects have known vulnerabilities and architectural instabilities and are provided on an as-is basis, which, if not properly addressed, could negatively affect the performance of our product. If we inappropriately use or incorporate open source software subject to certain types of open source licenses that challenge the proprietary nature of our products, we may be required to re-engineer such products, discontinue the sale of such products, or take other remedial actions, any of which could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we cannot license rights to use technologies on reasonable terms, we may be unable to license rights that are critical to our business. In the future we may identify additional third-party intellectual property that we may need to license in order to engage in our business, including to develop or commercialize new products or services. However, such licenses may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. The licensing or acquisition of third-party intellectual property rights is a competitive area, and several more established companies may pursue strategies to license or acquire third-party intellectual property rights that we may consider attractive or necessary. These established companies may have a competitive advantage over us due to their size, capital resources, and greater development or commercialization capabilities. In addition, companies that perceive us to be a competitor may be unwilling to assign or license rights to us. Even if such licenses are available, we may be required to pay the licensor substantial royalties based on sales of our products and services. Such royalties are a component of the cost of our products or services and may affect the margins on our products and services. If we are unable to enter into the necessary licenses on acceptable terms or at all, it could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Risks Related to our International Operations Our current operations are international in scope, and we plan further geographic expansion, creating a variety of operational challenges. We currently operate internationally, and a component of our growth strategy involves the further expansion of our operations and customer base internationally. Customers outside the United States generated 57% and 61% of our revenue for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Beyond the United States, we have operational presence internationally, including in Romania, the United Kingdom, and a number of other countries in Europe, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, India, Israel, Japan, Mexico, Singapore, South Korea, Turkey, and the United Arab Emirates, among others. We are continuing to adapt to and develop strategies to further address international markets, but there is no guarantee that such efforts will have the desired effect. For example, we anticipate that we will need to establish relationships with new partners in order to expand into certain countries, and if we fail to identify, establish, and maintain such relationships, we may be unable to execute on our expansion plans. As of January 31, 2022, the majority of our full-time employees were located outside of the United States. We expect that our international activities will continue to grow for the foreseeable future as we continue to pursue opportunities in existing and new international markets, which will require significant dedication of management attention and financial resources. Our current and future international business and operations involve a variety of risks, including: slower than anticipated availability and adoption of our platform and products by international businesses; changes in a specific countrys or regions political, regulatory, or economic conditions; the need to adapt and localize our products for specific countries; greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable and longer payment cycles; potential changes in trade relations, regulations, or laws; 40 Table of Contents unexpected changes in laws, regulatory requirements, or tax laws; more stringent regulations relating to privacy and data security and the unauthorized use of, or access to, commercial and personal data, particularly in Europe; differing and potentially more onerous labor regulations, especially in Europe, where labor laws are generally more advantageous to employees as compared to the United States, including deemed hourly wage and overtime regulations in these locations; challenges inherent in efficiently managing, and the increased costs associated with, an increased number of employees over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits, and compliance programs that are specific to each jurisdiction; potential changes in laws, regulations, and costs affecting our U.K. operations and local employees due to Brexit; difficulties in managing a business in new markets with diverse cultures, languages, customs, legal systems, alternative dispute systems, and regulatory systems; increased travel, real estate, infrastructure, and legal compliance costs associated with international operations; currency exchange rate fluctuations and the resulting effect on our revenue and expenses and the cost and risk of entering into hedging transactions if we chose to do so in the future; limitations on our ability to reinvest earnings from operations in one country to fund the capital needs of our operations in other countries; laws and business practices favoring local competitors or general market preferences for local vendors; limited or insufficient intellectual property protection or difficulties obtaining, maintaining, protecting, or enforcing our intellectual property rights, including our trademarks and patents; political instability or terrorist activities; an outbreak of a contagious disease, which may cause us or our third-party providers and/or customers to temporarily suspend our or their respective operations in the affected city or country; exposure to liabilities under anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws, including the FCPA, U.S. bribery laws, the United Kingdom Bribery Act, and similar laws and regulations in other jurisdictions; exposure to anti-competition laws in foreign jurisdictions that may conflict with or be more restrictive than similar U.S. anti-competition laws; adverse changes to domestic and foreign tax law and the burdens of foreign exchange controls that could make it difficult to repatriate earnings and cash; and the impact of the Russian military action and evolving geopolitical situation in Ukraine and the near- and longer-term effects on our employees, our business, and the global economic environment. Although we have taken steps designed to ensure that UiPath complies with applicable regulations including evolving U.S. and international sanctions and that these events will not affect the services that we offer customers, these steps involve additional compliance costs and operational costs. There may be developments we are at present unable to reasonably and fully anticipate from the situation involving the Russian military action in Ukraine which may increase our costs and delay or further delay aspects of our product development efforts. Any of these could adversely impact our business, financial position, and results of operations. Failure to comply with these international regulations as they evolve could harm our business. If we invest substantial time and resources to further expand our international operations and are unable to do so successfully and in a timely manner, our business and results of operations will suffer. 41 Table of Contents Risks Related to Tax and Accounting Matters If we fail to develop and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable laws and regulations could be impaired. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). We are required to document and test our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("Section 404") so that our management can certify as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Likewise, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to provide an attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting at such time as we cease to be an emerging growth company, as defined in the Jumpstart our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the "JOBS Act"). At such time, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse if a material weakness is identified. Neither our management nor an independent registered public accounting firm has ever performed an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 because no such evaluation has been required. We expect to be required, pursuant to Section 404, to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for the fiscal year ending January 31, 2023. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our first annual report required to be filed with the SEC following the date on which we are no longer an emerging growth company. We have commenced the costly and challenging process of compiling the system and processing documentation necessary to perform the evaluation needed to comply with Section 404, but we may not be able to complete our evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion. Our compliance with Section 404 requires that we incur substantial expenses and expend significant management efforts. We have needed to and may continue to need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge and compile the system and process documentation necessary to perform the evaluation needed to comply with Section 404. We have in the past experienced material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, including in the course of preparing our audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2018 (prior to our changing our fiscal year from December 31 to January 31). Management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of January 31, 2022. However, our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. If we or our accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, it could harm our operating results, adversely affect our reputation, or result in inaccurate financial reporting. Furthermore, should any such deficiencies arise we could be subject to lawsuits, sanctions or investigations by regulatory authorities, including SEC enforcement actions, and we could be required to restate our financial results, any of which would require additional financial and management resources. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our results of operations. While our sales contracts are denominated predominantly in U.S. dollars, we also have sales contracts representing a large portion of our revenue denominated in foreign currencies. Therefore, a portion of our revenue is subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Additionally, for our foreign sales contracts denominated in U.S. dollars, a strengthening of the U.S. dollar could increase the real cost of our products and platform capabilities to these customers outside of the United States, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Further, an increasing portion of our operating expenses are incurred outside the United States. We conduct our business and incur costs in the local currency of most countries in which we operate. We incur currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction 42 Table of Contents using a different currency from the currency in which it operates, or holds assets or liabilities in a currency different from its functional currency. Changes in exchange rates can also affect our results of operations when the value of sales and expenses of foreign subsidiaries are translated to U.S. dollars. We cannot accurately predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations. If we are not able to successfully hedge against the risks associated with currency fluctuations, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Further, given the volatility of exchange rates, we may not be able to effectively manage our currency risks, and any volatility in currency exchange rates may increase the price of our products in local currency to our foreign customers or increase the manufacturing cost of our products, either of which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows, and profitability. Our corporate structure and intercompany arrangements cause us to be subject to the tax laws of various jurisdictions, and we could be obligated to pay additional taxes, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. We have been rapidly expanding our international operations and personnel to support our business in numerous international markets. We generally conduct our international operations through directly or indirectly wholly-owned subsidiaries, and we are or may be required to report our taxable income in various jurisdictions worldwide with increasingly complex tax laws based upon our business operations in those jurisdictions. Our intercompany relationships and agreements are subject to complex transfer pricing regulations administered by tax authorities in various jurisdictions with potentially divergent tax laws. Tax authorities may disagree with tax positions that we have taken. For example, the U.S Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") or another tax authority could challenge our allocation of income by tax jurisdiction and the amounts paid between our affiliated companies pursuant to our intercompany arrangements and transfer pricing policies, including amounts paid with respect to our intellectual property in connection with our intercompany research and development cost sharing arrangement and legal structure. The amount of taxes we pay in different jurisdictions may depend on the application of the tax laws of the various jurisdictions, including the United States, to our international business activities, changes in tax rates, new or revised tax laws or interpretations of existing tax laws and policies, and our ability to operate our business in a manner consistent with our corporate structure and intercompany arrangements. The authorities in these jurisdictions could review our tax returns or require us to file tax returns in jurisdictions in which we are not currently filing and could impose additional tax, interest, and penalties. In addition, the authorities could claim that various withholding requirements apply to us or our subsidiaries, assert that benefits of tax treaties are not available to us or our subsidiaries, or challenge our methodologies for valuing developed technology or intercompany arrangements, including our transfer pricing. If such a challenge or disagreement were to occur, and our position was not sustained, we could be required to pay additional taxes, interest, and penalties, which could result in one-time tax charges, higher effective tax rates, reduced cash flows, and lower overall profitability of our operations. Our financial statements could fail to reflect adequate reserves to cover such a contingency. Furthermore, we are subject to periodic audits in the various jurisdictions in which we operate, which if determined aversely could have an adverse impact on our financial conditions. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially affect our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. The tax regimes we are subject to or operate under, including income and non-income taxes, may be subject to significant change. Changes in tax laws, regulations, or rulings, or changes in interpretations of existing laws and regulations, could materially affect our financial position and results of operations, and we must monitor such changes closely. Further, tax proposals in the U.S. under the Biden administration have included changes that could have a material impact on the overall tax position of U.S. taxpayers, especially with regard to international aspects of taxation. The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ("OECD") has been working on a Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Project ("BEPS") and issued a report in 2015, an interim report in 2018, and has issued additional guidelines, model rules, and final proposals that may change various aspects of the existing framework under which our tax obligations are determined in many of the countries in which we do business. In particular, the OECD is coordinating the implementation of rules to be adopted from 2023 for taxing the digital economy, specifically with respect to nexus and profit allocation (Pillar One), and for a global minimum tax (Pillar Two). While these and other BEPS initiatives are in the final stages of approval and/or implementation, we cannot predict their 43 Table of Contents outcome or what potential impact they may have on our tax obligations and operations or our financial statements, up to their final enactment in national and international legislation. Additionally, the European Commission and several countries have issued (and continue to issue) proposals that could change various aspects of the current tax framework under which we are taxed. These proposals include changes to the existing framework to calculate income tax, as well as proposals to change or impose new types of non-income taxes, including taxes based on a percentage of revenue or online sale. For example, several countries have proposed or enacted taxes applicable to digital services, which could apply to our business (subject to any scaling back or withdrawal of such proposals or enactments following the implementation of Pillar One and Pillar Two and/or the introduction of mechanisms to avoid double taxation currently being assessed). Due to the large and expanding scale of our international business activities, these types of changes to the taxation of our activities could increase our worldwide effective tax rate, increase the amount of taxes imposed on our business, and harm our financial position. Such changes may also apply retroactively to our historical operations and result in taxes greater than the amounts estimated and recorded in our financial statements. Changes in our effective tax rate or tax liability may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment by management, and there are many transactions where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We believe that our provision for income taxes is reasonable, but the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods in which such outcome is determined. Our effective tax rate could increase due to several factors, including: changes in the relative amounts of income before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates; changes in tax laws, tax treaties, and regulations or the interpretation of them; changes to our assessment about our ability to realize our deferred tax assets that are based on estimates of our future results, the prudence and feasibility of possible tax planning strategies, and the economic and political environments in which we do business; the outcome of current and future tax audits, examinations, or administrative appeals; changes international tax frameworks; and the effects of acquisitions. Any of these developments could adversely affect our results of operations. We could be required to collect additional sales, use, transfer, or other indirect taxes or be subject to other tax liabilities that may increase the costs our customers would have to pay for our products and adversely affect our results of operations. We currently collect and remit applicable sales, use, transfer, or other indirect taxes in jurisdictions where we, through our employees or economic activity, have a presence and where we have determined, based on applicable legal precedents, that sales or licensing of our products are classified as taxable. We do not currently collect and remit state and local excise, utility user or ad valorem taxes, fees, or surcharges in jurisdictions where we believe we do not have sufficient nexus. There is uncertainty as to what constitutes sufficient nexus for a state or local jurisdiction to levy taxes, fees and surcharges for sales made over the internet, and there is also uncertainty as to whether our characterization of our products as not taxable in certain jurisdictions will be accepted by state and local tax authorities. An increasing number of states have considered or adopted laws that attempt to impose tax collection obligations on out-of-state companies. Additionally, the Supreme Court of the United States ruled in South Dakota v. Wayfair, Inc. et al ("Wayfair") that online sellers can be required to collect sales and use tax despite not having a physical presence in the buyers state. In response to Wayfair , or otherwise, states or local governments may adopt, or begin to enforce, laws requiring us to calculate, collect, and remit taxes on sales in their jurisdictions. A 44 Table of Contents successful assertion by one or more states requiring us to collect taxes where we presently do not do so, or to collect more taxes in a jurisdiction in which we currently do collect some taxes, could result in substantial tax liabilities, including taxes on past sales, as well as penalties and interest. The imposition by state governments or local governments of sales tax collection obligations on out-of-state sellers could also create additional administrative burdens for us, put us at a competitive disadvantage if they do not impose similar obligations on our competitors, and decrease our future sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our ability to use our NOLs to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations. Our net operating losses ("NOLs") could expire unused and be unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities because of their limited duration or because of restrictions under U.S. or foreign tax law. NOLs generated in taxable years beginning before January 1, 2018 are permitted to be carried forward for only 20 taxable years under applicable U.S. federal income tax law. Under current law, NOLs arising in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, and before January 1, 2021 may be carried back to each of the five tax years preceding the tax year of such loss, and NOLs arising in tax years beginning after December 31, 2020 may not be carried back. Moreover, under current law, NOLs generated in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 may be carried forward indefinitely, but the deductibility of such NOLs generally will be limited in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2020 to 80% of current year taxable income. The extent to which state income tax law will conform to federal is uncertain. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") a corporation that undergoes an ownership change (as defined under Section 382 of the Code and applicable Treasury Regulations) is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change NOLs to offset future taxable income. We have identified Section 382 ownership changes in April 2017 and July 2020 and, accordingly, our NOLs are subject to limitation. We did not experience a subsequent ownership change in connection with the Series F Financing and our IPO. We do not believe that any Section 382 limitations will prevent us from fully utilizing our NOLs. It is possible that we have in the past undergone and may in the future undergo, additional ownership changes that we have not identified and that could result in additional limitations on our NOLs. Furthermore, our ability to utilize NOLs of companies that we have acquired or may acquire in the future may be subject to limitations. There is also a risk that due to regulatory changes, such as suspensions on the use of NOLs or other unforeseen reasons, our existing NOLs could expire or otherwise be unavailable to reduce future income tax liabilities, including for state tax purposes. For these reasons, we may not be able to utilize a material portion of the NOLs reflected on our balance sheets, even if we attain profitability, which could potentially result in increased future tax liability to us and could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in GAAP. GAAP is subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported results of operations and could affect the reporting of transactions already completed before the announcement of a change. If our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies prove to be incorrect, our results of operations could be adversely affected. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. The results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities, and equity, and the amount of revenue and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Significant estimates and judgments involve revenue recognition and the valuation of our stock-based compensation awards, including the determination of fair value of our common stock, among others. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our results of operations to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the market price of our Class A common stock. 45 Table of Contents Our revenue recognition policy and other factors may cause variability of our financial results in any given period and make them difficult to predict. We derive our revenue from the sale of our software licenses for use of our proprietary software, maintenance and support for our licenses, right to access certain products that are hosted by us (i.e., software as a service, ("SaaS")), and professional services. Under Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09 (Topic 606), Revenue from Contracts with Customers , we recognize revenue when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services are delivered. The amount of revenue recognized reflects the consideration that we expect to receive in exchange for these goods or services. Our licenses revenue is mainly derived from the sale of term-based licenses hosted on-premises, which is recognized when we transfer control of the respective license to the customer. Revenue from SaaS and revenue from maintenance and support are recognized ratably over time since control passes to our customers over the arrangements contractual period. Furthermore, the presentation of our financial results requires us to make estimates and assumptions that may affect revenue recognition. In some instances, we could reasonably use different estimates and assumptions, and changes in estimates are likely to occur from period to period. Given the foregoing factors, our actual results could differ significantly from our estimates. Comparing our revenue and operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and our past results may not be indicative of our future performance. For more information on our revenue recognition policy, refer to Note 2 , Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Class A Common Stock The dual class structure of our common stock has the effect of concentrating voting control with our Chief Executive Officer, Co-Founder, and Chairman, which will limit your ability to influence the outcome of important decisions. Our Class B common stock has 35 votes per share and our Class A common stock has one vote per share. Our Chief Executive Officer, Co-Founder, and Chairman, Daniel Dines, who, collectively with his controlled entities, holds all our outstanding shares of Class B common stock, and beneficially owned shares representing approximately 87% voting power of our outstanding capital stock as of January 31, 2022. As a result, Mr. Dines has the ability to control the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or our assets, even if his stock ownership represents less than 50% of the outstanding aggregate number of shares of our capital stock. This concentration of ownership will limit the ability of other stockholders to influence corporate matters and may cause us to make strategic decisions that could involve risks to you or that may not be aligned with your interests. As a board member, Mr. Dines owes a fiduciary duty to our stockholders and is legally obligated to act in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believes to be in the best interests of our stockholders. As a stockholder, Mr. Dines is entitled to vote his shares in his own interests, which may not always be in the interests of our stockholders generally. Mr. Dines control may adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. Further, future transfers by holders of our Class B common stock will generally result in those shares converting into shares of our Class A common stock, subject to limited exceptions, such as certain transfers effected for tax or estate planning purposes. We have not elected to take advantage of the controlled company exemption to the corporate governance rules for publicly-listed companies but may do so in the future. Because our Chief Executive Officer, Co-Founder, and Chairman, Daniel Dines, who, collectively with his controlled entities, holds all our outstanding shares of Class B common stock, and beneficially owns shares representing in excess of 50% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock, we are eligible to elect the controlled company exemption to the corporate governance rules for publicly-listed companies. We have not elected to do so. If we decide to become a controlled company under the corporate governance rules for publicly-listed companies, we would not be required to have a majority of our board of directors be independent, nor would we be required to have a compensation committee or an independent nominating function. If we choose controlled company status in the future, our status as a controlled company could cause our Class A common stock to be less attractive to certain investors or otherwise harm our trading price. 46 Table of Contents We cannot predict the impact our dual class structure may have on the market price of our Class A common stock. We cannot predict whether our dual class structure, combined with the concentrated control of our Chief Executive Officer, Co-Founder, and Chairman, who holds all of the outstanding shares of our Class B common stock, will result in a lower or more volatile market price of our Class A common stock or in adverse publicity or other adverse consequences. Certain index providers have announced restrictions on including companies with multiple-class share structures in certain of their indexes. For example, in July 2017, FTSE Russell and Standard & Poors announced that they would cease to allow most newly public companies utilizing dual or multi-class capital structures to be included in their indices. Under the announced policies, our dual class capital structure would make us ineligible for inclusion in any of these indices. Given the sustained flow of investment funds into passive strategies that seek to track certain indexes, exclusion from stock indexes would likely preclude investment by many of these funds and could make our Class A common stock less attractive to other investors. As a result, the market price of our Class A common stock could be adversely affected. Future sales of our Class A common stock in the public market could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our Class A common stock in the public market in the future, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our Class A common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We are unable to predict the timing of or the effect that such sales may have on the prevailing market price of our Class A common stock. In addition, there were 42,060,811 shares of Class A common stock issuable upon the exercise of options and upon the vesting and settlement of restricted stock units outstanding as of January 31, 2022. We have registered all of the shares of Class A common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding options, the vesting and settlement of outstanding restricted stock units, and other equity incentives we may grant in the future, for public resale under the Securities Act. The shares of Class A common stock became eligible for sale in the public market to the extent such options are exercised or restricted stock units vested and settled, subject to compliance with applicable securities laws. Further, certain of our stockholders have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering the sale of their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. Sales, short sales, or hedging transactions involving our equity securities, whether or not we believe them to be prohibited, could adversely affect the price of our Class A common stock. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future and, as a result, the ability of the holders of our Class A common stock to achieve a return on their investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our Class A common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock, and we do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors. Accordingly, holders of our Class A common stock may need to rely on sales of our Class A common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. We are an emerging growth company, and we cannot be certain if the reduced reporting and disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our Class A common stock less attractive to investors. We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the JOBS Act, and we have taken and may continue to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. Pursuant to Section 107 of the JOBS Act, as an emerging growth company, we have elected to use the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. As a result, our consolidated financial statements may not be comparable to the financial statements of issuers who are required to comply with the effective dates for new or revised accounting standards that are applicable to public 47 Table of Contents companies, which may make our Class A common stock less attractive to investors. In addition, if we cease to be an emerging growth company, we will no longer be able to use the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of: (1) the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of our IPO; (2) the last day of the first fiscal year in which our annual gross revenue is $1.07 billion or more; (3) the date on which we have, during the previous rolling three-year period, issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities; and (4) the last day of the fiscal year in which the market value of our Class A common stock held by non-affiliates exceeded $700 million as of the last business day of the second quarter of such fiscal year. We currently anticipate that we will exit emerging growth company status for the fiscal year beginning February 1, 2023. We cannot predict if investors will find our Class A common stock less attractive if we choose to rely on these exemptions. For example, if we do not adopt a new or revised accounting standard, our future results of operations may not be as comparable to the results of operations of certain other companies in our industry that adopted such standards. If some investors find our Class A common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our Class A common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of our company more difficult, limit attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management and limit the market price of our Class A common stock. In addition to the effects of our dual class structure, provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control or changes in our management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws include provisions that may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder. Any of the foregoing provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Class A common stock, and they could deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that you would receive a premium for your shares of our Class A common stock in an acquisition. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware and the federal district courts of the United States of America will be the exclusive forums for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or employees. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the exclusive forum for the following types of actions or proceedings under Delaware statutory or common law: any derivative claim or cause of action brought on our behalf; any claim or cause of action asserting a breach of fiduciary duty; any claim or cause of action against us arising under the Delaware General Corporation Law; any claim or cause of action arising under or seeking to interpret our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our amended and restated bylaws; and any claim or cause of action against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. The provisions would not apply to suits brought to enforce a duty or liability created by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). Furthermore, Section 22 of the Securities Act creates concurrent jurisdiction for federal and state courts over all such Securities Act actions. Accordingly, both state and federal courts have jurisdiction to entertain such claims. To prevent having to litigate claims in multiple jurisdictions and the threat of inconsistent or contrary rulings by different courts, among other considerations, our amended and 48 Table of Contents restated certificate of incorporation provides that the federal district courts of the United States of America will be the exclusive forum for resolving any complaint asserting a cause or causes of action arising under the Securities Act, including all causes of action asserted against any defendant to such complaint. For the avoidance of doubt, this provision is intended to benefit and may be enforced by us, our officers and directors, the underwriters to any offering giving rise to such complaint, and any other professional entity whose profession gives authority to a statement made by that person or entity and who has prepared or certified any part of the documents underlying the offering. While the Delaware courts have determined that such choice of forum provisions are facially valid, a stockholder may nevertheless seek to bring a claim in a venue other than those designated in the exclusive forum provisions. In such instance, we would expect to vigorously assert the validity and enforceability of the exclusive forum provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. This may require significant additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions and there can be no assurance that the provisions will be enforced by a court in those other jurisdictions. These exclusive forum provisions may limit a stockholders ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or other employees, which may discourage lawsuits against us and our directors, officers, and other employees. If a court were to find either exclusive-forum provision in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur further significant additional costs associated with resolving the dispute in other jurisdictions, all of which could seriously harm our business. General Risk Factors Our stock price may be volatile, and the value of our Class A common stock may decline. The market price of our Class A common stock may be highly volatile and may fluctuate or decline substantially as a result of a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition or results of operations; variance in our financial performance from expectations of securities analysts; changes in the pricing of licenses to our products; changes in our projected operating and financial results; changes in laws or regulations applicable to our platform and products; announcements by us or our competitors of significant business developments, acquisitions, or new products; significant data breaches, disruptions to or other incidents involving our software; our involvement in litigation or governmental investigations; future sales of our Class A common stock by us or our stockholders; changes in senior management or key personnel; the issuance of new or changed securities analysts reports or recommendations; the trading volume of our Class A common stock; changes in the anticipated future size and growth rate of our market; economic and market conditions in general, or in our industry in particular; and technical factors in the public trading market for our Class A common stock that may produce price movements that may or may not comport with macro, industry, or company-specific fundamentals, including, without limitation, the sentiment of retail investors, the amount and status of short interest in our securities, access to margin debt, trading in options and other derivatives on our common stock and other technical trading factors. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of the liquidity of an active trading market, your ability to sell your shares of our Class A common stock when desired, or the prices that you may obtain for your shares of our Class A common stock. The lack of an active market may impair your ability to sell your shares at the time you wish to sell 49 Table of Contents them or at a price that you consider reasonable. The lack of an active market may also reduce the fair value of your shares. An inactive market may also impair our ability to raise capital to continue to fund operations by selling shares and may impair our ability to acquire other companies or technologies by using our shares as consideration. Broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political, regulatory, and market conditions, may also negatively impact the market price of our Class A common stock. In addition, technology stocks have historically experienced high levels of volatility. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their securities have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future, which could result in substantial expenses and divert our managements attention. Our issuance of additional capital stock in connection with financings, acquisitions, investments, our equity incentive plans, or otherwise will dilute all other stockholders. We expect to issue additional capital stock in the future that will result in dilution to all other stockholders. We expect to continue to grant equity awards to employees, directors, and consultants under our equity incentive plans. We may also raise capital through equity financings in the future. As part of our business strategy, we may acquire or make investments in companies, products, or technologies and issue equity securities to pay for any such acquisition or investment. Any such issuances of additional capital stock may cause stockholders to experience significant dilution of their ownership interests and the per share value of our Class A common stock to decline. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish unfavorable or inaccurate research about our business, the market price and trading volume of our Class A common stock could decline. The market price and trading volume of our Class A common stock is heavily influenced by the way analysts interpret our financial information and other disclosures. We do not have control over these analysts. If few securities analysts commence coverage of us, or if industry analysts cease coverage of us, our stock price could be negatively affected. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, downgrade our Class A common stock, or publish negative reports about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our Class A common stock could decrease, which might cause our stock price to decline and could decrease the trading volume of our Class A common stock. We incur increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to compliance with our public company responsibilities and corporate governance practices. As a public company, we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, which we expect to further increase after we are no longer an emerging growth company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange and other applicable securities rules and regulations impose various requirements on public companies. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to compliance with these requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we will incur as a public company or the specific timing of such costs. Pursuant to the terms of our outstanding indebtedness, we may be limited in our ability to incur future debt. In October 2020, we entered into a Senior Secured Credit Facility (the "Credit Facility") with HSBC Ventures USA Inc., Silicon Valley Bank, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, and Mizuho Bank, LTD, which provided a $200.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility with a maturity date of October 30, 2023. Our obligations under the Credit Facility are secured by substantially all of our assets, except for our intellectual property. Pursuant to the terms of the Credit Facility, we are limited in our ability to incur additional indebtedness other than on the terms and conditions thereof. In addition, a failure to comply with the covenants under the Credit Facility could result in an event of default by us and an acceleration of amounts due. If an event of default occurs that is not waived by the lenders, and the lenders accelerate any amounts due, we may not be able to make accelerated 50 Table of Contents payments, and the lender could seek to enforce their security interests in the collateral securing such indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 51 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 2. Properties Our corporate headquarters and other significant leased real property as of January 31, 2022 are shown in the following table. Location Business Purpose Square Footage Lease Expiration Date New York, NY Temporary global headquarters 16,428 12/31/2022 New York, NY Future global headquarters 26,363 3/31/2038 Bucharest, Romania Corporate office 86,352 9/1/2025 Bellevue, WA Product development center 39,120 11/30/2024 Bangalore, India Corporate office 21,006 2/15/2023 Tokyo, Japan Serviced office space 3,229 9/30/2022 We also lease other spaces for our sales, services, development, and administrative activities in various locations in the U.S. and around the world. We do not own any real property. We believe our leased properties are in good operating condition and adequately serve our current business operations. Although a portion of our workforce is remote at present due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we currently expect to reoccupy our material leased facilities when conditions permit. For additional information regarding obligations under operating leases, see Note 8 , Operating Leases , to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Item 3. Legal Proceedings Information pertaining to legal proceedings, if any, can be found in Note 11 , Commitments and Contingencies Litigation, to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 52 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information Our Class A common stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange on April 21, 2021, under the ticker symbol "PATH." There currently is no established public trading market for our Class B common stock, but each share of Class B common stock is convertible at any time at the option of the holder into one share of Class A common stock, and is automatically converted upon sale or transfer into one share of Class A common stock. Number of Holders of Common Stock The number of record holders of Class A and Class B common stock as of March 30, 2022 was 78 and one, respectively. We believe the number of beneficial owners of our Class A common stock is substantially greater than the number of record holders because a large portion of Class A common stock is held in street name by brokers. Dividends We did not declare or pay any dividends on our Class A or Class B common stock over the past three fiscal years and we do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Use of Proceeds from Initial Public Offering of Class A Common Stock In April 2021, we completed our initial public offering ("IPO"), in which we issued and sold 13.0 million shares of our Class A common stock, including 3.6 million shares pursuant to the exercise in full of the underwriters option to purchase additional shares, and the selling stockholders sold an additional 14.5 million shares, at a public offering price of $56.00 per share, resulting in net proceeds to us of $687.9 million after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses. We did not receive any proceeds from the sale of shares by the selling stockholders. All of the shares issued and sold in the IPO were registered under the Securities Act pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-254738), which was declared effective by the SEC on April 20, 2021. There has been no material change in the planned use of proceeds from our IPO from those disclosed in the final prospectus for our IPO, filed with the SEC on April 21, 2021 pursuant to Rule 424(b)(4) under the Securities Act (the "Final Prospectus.") Issuer Purchase of Equity Securities None. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities None. Stock Performance Graph The following graph compares the cumulative total return of our Class A common stock for the period from April 21, 2021, the date our Class A common stock began trading, through January 31, 2022, as compared to the cumulative total return of the S&P 500 Index and S&P 500 Technology Index over the same period . The graph 53 Table of Contents assumes a $100 investment in our Class A common stock and each of the above indices at April 21, 2021, with cash dividends reinvested as applicable. Item 6. [Reserved] Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2022 included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion, particularly information with respect to our future results of operations or financial condition, business strategy and plans and objectives of management for future operations, includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties as described under the heading Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should review the disclosure under the heading Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements. Our fiscal quarters end on April 30, July 31, and October 31, and our fiscal year ends January 31. References to fiscal years 2022, 2021, and 2020 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refer to our fiscal years ended January 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. A discussion regarding our financial condition and our results of operations for fiscal year 2022 compared to fiscal year 2021 is presented below. A discussion regarding our results of operations for fiscal year 2021 compared to fiscal year 2020 is presented in the Final Prospectus under the section titled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Overview We are at the forefront of technology innovation and thought leadership in automation, creating an end-to-end platform that provides automation with user emulation at its core. Our platform leverages computer vision and artificial intelligence ("AI") to empower software robots to emulate human behavior and execute specific business processes, eliminating the need for employees to execute certain manual and mundane tasks. Our platform allows employees to focus on more value-added work and enables organizations to seamlessly automate business processes ranging from those in legacy information technology ("IT") systems and on-premises applications to new 54 Table of Contents cloud-native infrastructure and applications without requiring significant changes to the organizations underlying technology infrastructure. Our platform is purpose-built to be used by employees throughout a company and to address a wide variety of use cases, from simple tasks to long-running, complex business processes. Our platform is designed to transform the way humans work. We provide our customers with a robust set of capabilities to discover automation opportunities and to build, manage, run, engage, measure, and govern automations across departments within an organization. Our platform leverages the power of AI-based computer vision to enable our robots to perform a vast array of actions as a human would when executing business processes. These actions include, but are not limited to, logging into applications, extracting information from documents, moving folders, filling in forms, and updating information fields and databases. Our robots ability to replicate humans steps in executing business processes drives continuous improvements in operational efficiencies and enables companies to deliver on key digital initiatives with greater speed, agility, and accuracy. Our platform is designed to interact with and automate processes across a companys existing enterprise stack. As a result, our customers can leverage the power of our platform without the need to replace or change existing business applications and with lower overall IT infrastructure cost. Our platform enables employees to quickly build automations for both existing and new processes. Employees can seamlessly maintain and scale automations across multiple deployment options, constantly improve and evolve automations, and continuously track and measure the performance of automations, all without substantial technical experience. At the core of our automation platform is a set of capabilities that emulates human behavior, which provides our customers with the ability to automate both simple and complex use cases. Automations on our platform can be built, consumed, managed, and governed by any employee who interacts with computers, resulting in the potential for broad applicability of our platform across departments within an organization. Society is at a turning point in how organizations execute work, and we believe the ability to leverage software to enrich the employee experience will unlock tremendous value and efficiency opportunities. While we are still in the early days of a multi-year journey to the fully automated enterprise , momentum is growing as organizations across the world are only now beginning to understand the power of automation. Founded in a Bucharest, Romania apartment in 2005, UiPath was incorporated in 2015 as a company principally focused on building automation scripts and developing computer vision technology, which remains the foundation of our platform today. Since that time, we have developed and enhanced our robotic process automation ("RPA") capabilities, launched new products, and expanded our operations across the globe. We now offer a comprehensive range of automation solutions via a suite of interrelated software offerings. We generate revenue from the sale of licenses for our proprietary software, maintenance and support for our software, right to access certain products that are hosted by us (i.e., software as a service, or "SaaS"), and other services, including professional services. Our license fees are based primarily on the number of users who access our software and the number of automations running on our platform. Our license agreements generally have annual terms, and some of our license agreements have multi-year terms. We generally do not sell standalone licenses with a term of less than one year. However, during the term of an annual contract or the last year of a multi-year contract, our customers may enter into an additional license agreement with a termination date that is coterminous with the anniversary date of such annual contract. Additionally, we provide maintenance and support for our software as well as non-recurring professional services such as training and implementation services to facilitate the adoption of our platform. Our professional services complement the capabilities of our customers and partners as they improve customers time-to-market and optimize business outcomes using our platform. Our non-recurring professional services include use case development and deployment, solutions architecting, implementation consulting, and training. We have an efficient go-to-market model, which consists primarily of an enterprise field sales force supplemented by an inside sales team focused on small and mid-sized customers, as well as a global strategic sales team focused on the largest global customers. We had over 10,100 and over 7,900 customers as of January 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Many of our customers expand the scope and size of use cases of our platform across their organizations as they quickly realize the power of our platform. We believe that the success of our land-and-expand business model is centered on our ability to deliver significant value in a very short time. We grow with our customers as they identify and expand the number of business processes to automate, which increases the number of robots deployed and the number of users interacting with our robots. 55 Table of Contents A crucial component of our go-to-market strategy is our partner and channel ecosystem, which extends our local and global reach and helps to ensure that customers are able to rapidly build, deploy, and scale automations on our platform. Our business partners include more than 5,100 global and regional system integrators, value-added resellers, and business consultants. We provide tiering recognition through Diamond, Gold, Silver, and Registered levels for partners that meet competency requirements and deliver and maintain a specified number of satisfied customers. These partnerships enhance our market presence and drive greater sales efficiencies. In addition, we have built strong technology partnerships and alliances to enable a large number of connectors and other technical capabilities necessary to meet the breadth of our customer needs. We have experienced rapid growth. We generated revenue of $892.3 million and $607.6 million, representing a growth rate of 47%, and net losses of $525.6 million and $92.4 million for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Our operating cash flows were $(55.0) million and $29.2 million for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Impact of COVID-19 When the COVID-19 pandemic began to unfold, we took decisive action across our internal and customer operations to ensure the resilience of our company and the safety of our employees. We temporarily shut down all offices and offered our employees technology stipends to encourage remote working, postponed most of our physical conferences and other customer and promotional events, implemented global travel restrictions, reduced headcount and expenses related to event marketing, and engaged in other discretionary cost-saving measures. Although we have recently selectively reopened certain of our offices and have begun permitting some travel and in-person meetings and events in compliance with applicable government orders and public health guidelines, the majority of our employees continue to work remotely. We have a distributed workforce and our employees are accustomed to remote work. Our operational rigor, digital infrastructure, and global footprint have enabled us to support our customers navigating new challenges presented by the pandemic and existing needs to automate. Global demand for automation has continued to accelerate as automation becomes ever more critical for business execution and performance in a remote working environment, and we have continued to invest in the development and marketing of our automation platform to meet that demand. For further information, see the section titled Risk Factors included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Key Performance Metric We monitor annualized renewal run-rate ("ARR") to help us measure and evaluate the effectiveness of our operations. ARR is the key performance metric we use in managing our business because it illustrates our ability to acquire new subscription customers and to maintain and expand our relationship with existing subscription customers. We define ARR as annualized invoiced amounts per solution SKU from subscription licenses and maintenance obligations assuming no increases or reductions in their subscriptions. ARR does not include the costs we may incur to obtain such subscription licenses or provide such maintenance, and does not reflect any actual or anticipated reductions in invoiced value due to contract non-renewals or service cancellations other than for specific bad debt or disputed amounts. At January 31, 2022 and 2021, our ARR was $925.3 million and $580.5 million, respectively, representing a growth rate of 59%. Approximately 25% of this growth rate was due to new customers and 75% of this growth rate was due to existing customers. Our dollar-based net retention rate, which represents the net expansion of ARR from existing customers over the preceding 12 months, was 145% as of both January 31, 2022 and 2021. We calculate dollar-based net retention rate as of a period end by starting with the ARR from the cohort of all customers as of 12 months prior to such period-end ("Prior Period ARR"). We then calculate the ARR from these same customers as of the current period-end ("Current Period ARR"). Current Period ARR includes any expansion and is net of contraction or attrition over the last 12 months, but does not include ARR from new customers in the current period. We then divide the total Current Period ARR by the total Prior Period ARR to arrive at the point-in-time dollar-based net retention rate. Our ARR may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including customers satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our platform and professional services, pricing, competitive offerings, economic conditions, or overall changes in our customers spending levels. ARR should be viewed independently of revenue and deferred revenue as ARR is an operating metric and is not intended to be combined with or to replace these items. For clarity, we use annualized invoiced amounts per solution SKU rather than revenue calculated in accordance with accounting 56 Table of Contents principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP"), to calculate our ARR. Our invoiced amounts are not matched to transfer of control of the performance obligations associated with the underlying subscription licenses and maintenance obligations as they are with respect to our GAAP revenue. This can result in timing differences between our GAAP revenue and ARR calculations. Our ARR calculation simply takes our invoiced amounts per solution SKU under a subscription license or maintenance agreement and divides that amount by the invoice term and multiplies by 365 days to derive the annualized value. In contrast, for our revenue calculated in accordance with GAAP, subscription licenses revenue derived from the sale of term-based licenses hosted on-premises is recognized at the point in time when the customer is able to use and benefit from our software, which is generally upon delivery to the customer or upon the commencement of the renewal term, and maintenance, support, and SaaS revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement. ARR is not a forecast of future revenue, which can be impacted by contract start and end dates, duration, and renewal rates, and does not include invoiced amounts reported as perpetual licenses or professional services revenue in our consolidated statements of operations. Investors should not place undue reliance on ARR as an indicator of our future or expected results. Moreover, our presentation of ARR may differ from similarly titled metrics presented by other companies and may not be comparable to such other metrics. For further information, s ee the section titled Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business, Products, Operations, and Industry" included in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A summary of ARR-related data at January 31, 2022 and 2021 is as follows: At January 31, 2022 2021 (dollars in thousands) Annualized renewal run-rate (ARR) $ 925,276 $ 580,483 Incremental annualized renewal run-rate (iARR) $ 344,793 $ 229,042 Customers with ARR greater than $1 million: Number of customers 158 89 Percent of fiscal year revenue 43 % 35 % Customers with ARR greater than $100 thousand: Number of customers 1,493 1,002 Percent of fiscal year revenue 79 % 75 % Dollar-based net retention rate 145 % 145 % Key Factors Affecting Our Performance Our results of operations and financial condition are impacted by the macro factors affecting our industry, including the proliferation of cloud-based applications, the cost of skilled human capital, and the global demand for automation solutions. While our business is influenced by these macro factors, our results of operations are more directly affected by certain Company specific factors, including: Growing Our Global Customer Base We believe there is a substantial opportunity to continue to grow our customer base. Additionally, we believe that as more organizations adopt our automation platform and experience quantifiable competitive advantages, other organizations will also adopt automation as a necessary tool to compete. While we sell to organizations of all sizes and across a broad range of industries, our go-to-market teams key focus is on the largest organizations, including large enterprises and governments. We also use an inside sales team focused on small and mid-sized businesses. We plan to continue to invest in our go-to-market team to grow our customer base both domestically and internationally. We intend to continue to grow our customer base by focusing on the top 25 countries as measured by gross domestic product. Although these investments may adversely affect our operating results in the near term, we believe that they will contribute to our long-term growth. Our ability to attract new customers will also depend on a number of other factors, including our ability to drive awareness of the benefits and power of automation in the industry and at our existing and prospective customers, the effectiveness and pricing of our products, the offerings of our competitors, and competition among resellers. 57 Table of Contents We define our number of customers as the number of accounts with a unique account identifier for which we have an active subscription in the period indicated and include in our customer count entities to which we have sold our products either directly or through a channel partner. Users of our free trials or tier are not included in our customer count. A single organization with multiple divisions, segments, or subsidiaries is counted as a single customer. Our customer count is subject to adjustments for acquisitions, consolidations, spin-offs, and other market activity, and specifically excludes non-paying partners and resellers. Expanding Within Our Existing Customer Base Our customer base represents a significant opportunity for further sales expansion. We had over 10,100 and over 7,900 customers as of January 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. We employ a land-and-expand business model centered around offering products that are easy to adopt and have a short time to value. We believe there is significant opportunity for us to become a strategic partner to our customers in their automation journeys and drive further sales expansion through the following vectors: deploy more robots across different departments; provide more employees with their own robot assistants; increase adoption of platform products; and expand use cases for automation in the enterprise to drive increased usage of robots and capacity consumption of our various products. Our customers often expand the deployment of our platform across large teams and more broadly within the enterprise as they find new use cases for our platform and their employees increasingly interact with and gain confidence working with robots. The power of our land-and-expand model is evidenced by our dollar-based net retention rate and our customers exceeding significant ARR thresholds, described in the section titled Key Performance Metric ." We intend to continue to invest in enhancing awareness of our brand and developing more products, features, and functionality, which we believe are important factors to achieve widespread adoption of our platform. Our ability to increase sales to existing customers will depend on a number of factors, including our customers satisfaction with our solution, competition, pricing, and overall changes in our customers IT spending levels. Driving Preference and Share of System Integrators, Value-Added Resellers, and Business Consultants Selling the Value Propositions and Capabilities of Digital Transformation We are focused on maintaining and growing our ecosystem of partners that build, train, and certify skills in our technology as well as deplo y our technology on behalf of their customers. We have built a global partner ecosystem of more than 5,100 systems integrators, value-added resellers, business consultants, technology partners and public cloud vendors. Our partner network includes, among others, Accenture LLP, Capgemini SE, Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation, Deloitte, EY, Infosys Limited, International Business Machines Corporation, PwC, Tata Consultancy Services Limited, and Wipro Limited. We provide a tiering recognition through Diamond, Gold, Silver, and Registered levels for partners that meet competency requirements and d eliver and maintain a tiered number of satisfied customers. In May 2020, we launched the UiPath Services Network ("USN") program to recognize an elite network of partners accredited with advanced delivery skills, and over 50 partners have earned USN certification. We also offer a professional services capability that augments our partners efforts where necessary. Our ability to grow our partnership base depends on the competitiveness of our platform and the profitability of our relationship for our partners and potential partners. Sustaining Innovation and Automation Leadership Our success is dependent on our ability to sustain innovation and automation leadership in order to maintain our competitive advantage. We believe that we have built a differentiated automation platform and intend to continually increase the value we provide to our customers by investing in extending the capabilities of our platform. We have made and will continue to make significant investments in research and development to bolster our existing technology and enhance usability to improve our customers productivity. In May 2021, we released version 21.4 of the UiPath Platform. Innovations included the all-new Automation Ops, designed to help customers manage 58 Table of Contents and govern high scale deployments of the UiPath Studio family of products and Attended Robots enterprise-wide. New AI-powered capabilities were also introduced to speed the discovery and prioritization of processes to automate, led by the general availability of Task Mining. In November 2021, we released version 21.10 of the UiPath Platform. Innovations in this release include UiPath Integration Service, which delivers API automation to help companies optimize the technologies they already have. Additionally, the introduction of Robot Auto-healing allows for the detection and remediation of robot issues without human intervention, and a host of other new features make our platform simpler, faster, and more gratifying for developers and end users. We also collaborate with other leading technology companies to develop integrations that simplify the interoperability of our platform with their technology. Examples of integrations available to our customers include integrations with offerings from Amazon Web Services Inc., Adobe Inc., Alteryx Inc., Atlassian Corp Plc, Box, Inc., Crowdstrike Inc., DocuSign Inc., Microsoft Corporation, Oracle Corporation, Qlik Technologies Inc., Salesforce.com, Inc., SAP SE, ServiceNow, Inc., Snowflake, Inc., and Workday, Inc. These pre-built integrations can accelerate the adoption of our platform within our customers environment and speed the creation of automations that span multiple technologies. We also maintain partnerships with leading cloud vendors, such as Amazon Web Services Inc., Google Inc., and Microsoft Corporation, to both simplify the deployment of our platform and extend our platform to offer customers the benefits of cloud-based AI capabilities. We are focused on maintaining and growing our ecosystem of partners to continue to expand our market presence and drive greater sales efficiencies. In addition, we intend to continue to evaluate strategic acquisitions and investments in businesses and technologies to drive product and market expansion. For example, in March 2021, we acquired Cloud Elements Inc. ("Cloud Elements"), a provider of a leading application programming interface integration platform for SaaS application providers and the digital enterprise. This acquisition brings technology and an experienced team, which we believe will accelerate our technology roadmap in areas such as native integrations and system event automation triggers. Our future success is dependent on our ability to successfully develop, market, and sell existing and new products to both new and existing customers and maintain and expand our relationships with leading technology partners. Continuing to Invest to Grow and Scale Our Business We are focused on driving our growth potential over the long term. We believe that our market opportunity is substantial. We intend to continue to invest in scaling across all organizational functions in order to grow our operations both domestically and internationally. We have a history of introducing successful new products and capabilities on our platform and we believe these investments will contribute to our long-term growth. Components of Results of Operations Revenue We derive revenue from the sale of software licenses for use of our proprietary software, maintenance and support for our licenses, right to access certain software products we host (i.e., SaaS), and professional services. We offer a comprehensive range of automation solutions via a suite of interrelated software offerings. Customers can license our software and deploy our platform on-premises, in a public or private cloud, or in a hybrid environment. In addition, we offer a managed, multi-tenant, SaaS version of certain products (i.e., our SaaS products), which enables our customers to begin automating without the need to provision infrastructure, install applications or perform additional configurations. We also offer maintenance and support, training, and implementation services to our customers to facilitate their adoption of our platform. In fiscal 2021, we began offering both hybrid solutions and SaaS products. Hybrid solutions are comprised of three performance obligations, consisting of a term license, maintenance and support, and SaaS. During the third quarter of fiscal 2022, maintenance and support revenue was renamed subscription services revenue, and services and other revenue was renamed professional services and other revenue. We believe that that the new captions better reflect the composition of the revenue streams included in these line items on the consolidated statements of operations. 59 Table of Contents Licenses We primarily sell term licenses, which provide customers the right to use software for a specified period of time. From time to time, we also sell perpetual licenses that provide customers the right to use software for an indefinite period of time. For both types of licenses, revenue is recognized at the point in time at which the customer is able to use and benefit from the software, which is generally upon delivery to the customer or upon commencement of the renewal term. Subscription Services Subscription services revenue consists of maintenance and support revenue generated through technical support and the provision of unspecified updates and upgrades on a when-and-if-available basis for both term and perpetual license arrangements. Maintenance and support for perpetual licenses is renewable, generally on an annual basis, at the option of the customer. Maintenance and support represents a stand-ready obligation for which revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement. Subscription services revenue also consists of revenue related to our SaaS products, including those sold as part of our hybrid offerings. Our SaaS products are stand-ready obligations to provide access to our software, and the associated revenue is recognized ratably over the contractual period of the arrangement beginning when or as control of the promised service begins to transfer to the customer. Professional Services and Other Professional services and other revenue consists of fees associated with professional services for process automation, customer education, and training services. Our professional services contracts are structured on a time and materials or fixed price basis, and the related revenue is recognized as the services are rendered. Cost of Revenue Licenses Cost of licenses revenue consists of all direct costs to deliver our licenses to customers, amortization of software development costs, direct costs related to third-party software resales, and amortization of acquired developed technology. Subscription Services Cost of subscription services revenue primarily consists of personnel-related expenses of our customer support and technical support teams, including salaries and bonuses, stock-based compensation expense, and employee benefit costs. Cost of subscription services revenue also includes third-party consulting services, hosting costs related to our SaaS products, amortization of acquired developed technology and capitalized software development costs related to SaaS products, and allocated overhead. Overhead is allocated to cost of subscription services r evenue based on applicable headcount. We recognize these expenses as they are incurred. We expect cost of subscription services revenue to continue to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as our customer base grows. In the future, we expect further expansion of our cloud-based deployments. As cloud-based license software and services become a larger percentage of our total revenue, we expect the cloud offering to impact the timing of our recognition of revenue as well as impact our operating margins due to an increase in hosting fees and cloud infrastructure costs. Professional Services and Other Cost of professional services and other revenue primarily consists of personnel-related expenses of our professional services team, including salaries and bonuses, stock-based compensation expense, and employee benefit costs. Cost of professional services and other revenue also includes expenses related to third-party consulting services and allocated overhead. Overhead is allocated to cost of professional services and other revenue based on applicable headcount. We recognize these expenses as they are incurred. We expect cost of professional services and other revenue to continue to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as our customer base grows. 60 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative expenses. Personnel-related expenses are the most significant component of operating expenses and consist of salaries and bonuses, stock-based compensation expense, and employee benefit costs. Operating expenses also include allocated overhead. During fiscal years 2022 and 2021, certain operating expenses, such as travel and entertainment, decreased, primarily as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. We expect a resumption of travel and entertainment and related expenses during fiscal year 2023, although the timing and magnitude of these expenses will depend on a number of factors including the trend of the pandemic and potential changes to travel restrictions and stay-at-home orders. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel-related expenses associated with our sales and marketing teams and related sales support teams, including salaries and bonuses, stock-based compensation expense, and employee benefit costs. Sales and marketing expenses also include sales and partner commissions, marketing event costs, advertising costs, travel, trade shows, other marketing materials, and allocated overhead. Similar to travel and entertainment, trade show expenses also decreased in fiscal year 2021 and through the first half of fiscal year 2022, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. We have since seen trade show expenses resume, largely in connection with our FORWARD IV user conference in October 2021. We plan to increase our investment in sales and marketing in absolute dollars over the foreseeable future as we continue to hire additional personnel and invest in sales and marketing programs. We expect that our sales and marketing expense will decrease as a percentage of our total revenue over the long term, although our sales and marketing expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel-related expenses, including salaries and bonuses, stock-based compensation expense, and employee benefits costs for our research and development employees. Research and development costs are expensed as incurred, with the exception of certain software development costs which are eligible for capitalization. We expect that our research and development expenses will increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as we continue to invest in research and development efforts to develop new technology and enhance the functionality and capabilities of our existing products and platform infrastructure. Our research and development expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel-related expenses, including salaries and bonuses, stock-based compensation expense, and employee benefits costs associated with our finance, legal, human resources, compliance, and other administrative teams, as well as accounting and legal professional services fees, other corporate-related expenses, and allocated overhead. Following the completion of the IPO in April 2021, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur additional general and administrative expenses as a result of operating as a public company. As a result, we expect the dollar amount of our general and administrative expenses to increase for the foreseeable future. We expect that our general and administrative expenses will decrease as a percentage of our total revenue as our revenue grows over the longer term, although our general and administrative expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. Interest Income Interest income consists of interest income earned on our cash deposits, cash and cash equivalents balances, and marketable securities. Other (Expense) Income, Net Other (expense) inc ome, net primarily consists of foreign exchange gains and losses and gains and losses associated with foreign currency forward contracts. 61 Table of Contents Provision For (Benefit From) Income Taxes Provision for (benefit from) income taxes consists of U.S. federal and state income taxes and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We maintain a full valuation allowance on our U.S. federal and state, Romanian, and U.K. deferred tax assets, as we have concluded that it is more likely than not that these deferred tax assets will not be realized. Our effective tax rate is affected by tax rates in foreign jurisdictions and the relative amounts of income we earn in those jurisdictions, as well as by non-deductible expenses as permanent differences and by changes in our valuation allowances. Results of Operations The following tables set forth selected consolidated statement of operations data and such data as a percentage of total revenue for each of the periods indicated (in thousands): Year Ended January 31, 2022 2021 Revenue: Licenses $ 481,427 $ 346,035 Subscription services 369,867 232,542 Professional services and other 40,958 29,066 Total revenue 892,252 607,643 Cost of revenue: Licenses (1) 11,888 7,054 Subscription services (1)(2)(3) 60,565 24,215 Professional services and other (2)(3) 96,415 34,588 Total cost of revenue 168,868 65,857 Gross profit 723,384 541,786 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing (1)(2)(3) 697,682 380,154 Research and development (2)(3) 276,657 109,920 General and administrative (1)(2)(3) 249,991 162,035 Total operating expenses 1,224,330 652,109 Operating loss (500,946) (110,323) Interest income 3,551 1,152 Other (expense) income, net (13,488) 14,513 Loss before income taxes (510,883) (94,658) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 14,703 (2,265) Net loss $ (525,586) $ (92,393) Year Ended January 31, (1) Includes amortization of acquired intangible assets as follows (in thousands): 2022 2021 Cost of licenses revenue $ 2,521 $ 2,493 Cost of subscription services revenue 1,100 Sales and marketing 1,397 115 General and administrative 101 Total amortization of acquired intangible assets $ 5,119 $ 2,608 (2) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows (in thousands): Year Ended January 31, 2022 2021 Cost of subscription services revenue $ 12,232 $ 513 Cost of professional services and other revenue 29,849 1,860 Sales and marketing 237,975 16,356 Research and development 135,713 11,435 General and administrative 99,814 56,003 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 515,583 $ 86,167 62 Table of Contents (3) Includes employer payroll tax expense related to equity transactions as follows (in thousands): Year Ended January 31, 2022 2021 Cost of subscription services revenue $ 1,142 $ Cost of professional services and other revenue 4,516 Sales and marketing 39,615 Research and development 5,810 General and administrative 3,001 Total employer payroll tax expense related to equity transactions $ 54,084 $ The following table sets forth our consolidated statement of operations data expressed as a percentage of revenue for the period indicated: Year Ended January 31, 2022 2021 Revenue: Licenses 54 % 57 % Subscription services 41 % 38 % Professional services and other 5 % 5 % Total revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue: Licenses 1 % 1 % Subscription services 7 % 4 % Professional services and other 11 % 6 % Total cost of revenue 19 % 11 % Gross profit 81 % 89 % Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 78 % 62 % Research and development 31 % 18 % General and administrative 28 % 27 % Total operating expenses 137 % 107 % Operating loss (56) % (18) % Interest income % % Other (expense) income, net (1) % 2 % Loss before income taxes (57) % (16) % Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 2 % (1) % Net loss (59) % (15) % Comparison of Fiscal Year 2022 and Fiscal Year 2021 Revenue Year Ended January 31, 2022 2021 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Licenses $ 481,427 $ 346,035 $ 135,392 39 % Subscription services 369,867 232,542 137,325 59 % Professional services and other 40,958 29,066 11,892 41 % Total revenue $ 892,252 $ 607,643 $ 284,609 47 % Total revenue increased by $284.6 million, or 47%, for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2022 compared to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2021, primarily due to an increase in licenses revenue of $135.4 million and 63 Table of Contents increase in subscription services revenue of $137.3 million. Approximately 27% of the increase in revenue was from new customers and the remainder was attributable to existing customers. As we continued to expand our sales efforts in the United States and internationally, our revenue increased across all geographical regions. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Year Ended January 31, 2022 2021 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Licenses $ 11,888 $ 7,054 $ 4,834 69 % Subscription services 60,565 24,215 36,350 150 % Professional services and other 96,415 34,588 61,827 179 % Total cost of revenue $ 168,868 $ 65,857 $ 103,011 156 % Gross margin 81 % 89 % Total cost of revenue increased by $103.0 million, or 156%, for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2022 compared to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2021. Cost of licenses revenue increased primarily due to an increase in third-party software resale costs of $5.1 million, partially offset by a decrease in amortization of software development costs. Cost of subscription services revenue increased primarily due to an increase of $26.8 million in personnel-related expenses, which included an increase of $11.7 million in stock-based compensation expense, mostly due to recognition of expense beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2022 as a result of the satisfaction of IPO-related performance condition for restricted stock units ("RSUs"), and the remainder of which was largely due to increased headcount. Cost of subscription services revenue was also impacted by an increase in hosting and software services of $5.5 million, an increase in depreciation and amortization expense of $2.3 million, and an increase in third-party consulting fees of $1.5 million. Cost of professional services and other revenue increased primarily due to an increase of $46.4 million, in personnel-related expenses, which included $28.0 million in stock-based compensation expense, mostly due to recognition of expense beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2022 as a result of the satisfaction of IPO-related performance condition for RSUs, and an increase of $4.5 million related to employer tax on settlement of equity awards, and the remainder of which was largely due to increased headcount. Cost of professional services and other revenue was also impacted by a $15.7 million increase in third-party consulting fees. Our gross margin decreased to 81% for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2022 compared to 89% for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2021, primarily as a result of stock-based compensation expense recognized in connection with the satisfaction of performance-based vesting conditions following our IPO. Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing Year Ended January 31, 2022 2021 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 697,682 $ 380,154 $ 317,528 84 % Percentage of revenue 78 % 62 % Sales and marketing expense increased by $317.5 million, or 84%, for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2022 compared to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2021. This increase was primarily attributable to an increase of $324.7 million in personnel-related expenses, which included an increase of $221.6 million in stock-based compensation, mostly due to recognition of expense beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2022 as a result of the satisfaction of IPO-related performance condition for RSUs, and an increase of $39.3 million related to employer tax on settlement of equity awards, and the remainder of which was largely due to increased headcount. Sales and marketing expense was also impacted by an increase of $22.2 million in marketing costs related to our IPO and marketing events, as well as an aggregate increase of $9.8 million related to recruiting and software service expenses. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $40.4 million in sales commissions expense due to the accounting impact of changes to our sales incentive plan for fiscal year 2022. 64 Table of Contents Research and Development Year Ended January 31, 2022 2021 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 276,657 $ 109,920 $ 166,737 152 % Percentage of revenue 31 % 18 % Research and development expense increased by $166.7 million, or 152%, for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2022 compared to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2021. The increase was primarily attributable to an increase of $157.6 million in personnel-related expenses, which included an increase of $124.3 million in stock-based compensation, mostly due to recognition of expense beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2022 as a result of the satisfaction of IPO-related performance condition for RSUs, and an increase of $5.8 million related to employer tax on settlement of equity awards, and the remainder of which was largely due to increased headcount. Research and development expense was also impacted by an increase of $8.2 million in third-party software service and hosting costs. General and Administrative Year Ended January 31, 2022 2021 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 249,991 $ 162,035 $ 87,956 54 % Percentage of revenue 28 % 27 % General and administrative expense increased by $88.0 million, or 54%, for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2022 compared to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2021. This increase was primarily attributable to an increase of $58.2 million in personnel-related expenses, which included an increase of $43.8 million in stock-based compensation, mostly due to recognition of expense beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2022 as a result of the satisfaction of IPO-related performance condition for RSUs, and an increase of $3.0 million related to employer tax on settlement of equity awards, and the remainder of which was largely due to increased headcount. General and administrative expense was also impacted by an increase of $12.1 million in third-party consulting fees, an increase of $9.9 million in insurance-related expenses as a result of becoming a public company, an increase of $3.9 million related to hosted business applications, and an increase of $3.3 million related to other tax expenses, partially offset by a $4.8 million aggregate decrease in bad debt and rent expenses. Interest Income Year Ended January 31, 2022 2021 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Interest income $ 3,551 $ 1,152 $ 2,399 208 % Percentage of revenue % % Interest income increased by $2.4 million, or 208%, for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2022 compared to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2021 as a result of the period-over-period increase in our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities. Other (Expense) Income, Net Year Ended January 31, 2022 2021 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Other (expense) income, net $ (13,488) $ 14,513 $ (28,001) (193) % Percentage of revenue (1) % 2 % 65 Table of Contents Other expense, net increased by $28.0 million, or 193%, for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2022 compared to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2021. The change was primarily attributable to foreign exchange gains recognized in the prior period, partially offset by a decrease in interest expense in the current period. Provision For (Benefit From) Income Taxes Year Ended January 31, 2022 2021 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 14,703 $ (2,265) $ 16,968 (749) % Percentage of revenue 2 % (1) % Provision for income taxes increased by $17.0 million, or 749%, for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2022 compared to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2021. The effective tax rate was (2.9)% and 2.4% for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2022 and January 31, 2021, respectively. The change was primarily driven by higher foreign tax expenses resulting from higher year-over-year earnings of our cost-plus margin entities. Liquidity and Capital Resources We have financed operations since our inception primarily through customer payments and net proceeds from sales of equity securities. Our principal uses of cash in recent periods have been funding our operations, investing in capital expenditures, and engaging in various business acquisitions. As of January 31, 2022 and 2021, our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and marketable securities totaling $1,884.7 million and $474.0 million, respectively, and we had an accumulated deficit of $1,495.9 million and $970.4 million, respectively. During the fiscal years ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, we had net losses of $525.6 million and $92.4 million, respectively, and net cash (used in) provided by operations of $(55.0) million and $29.2 million, respectively. In April 2021, we completed our IPO, which resulted in the issuance of 13.0 million shares of our Class A common stock at a public offering price of $56.00 per share, including 3.6 million shares pursuant to the exercise in full of the underwriters option to purchase additional shares. Net proceeds were $687.9 million after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions of $35.6 million and offering expenses of $4.5 million. In July 2020, we completed our Series E preferred stock financing with gross proceeds totaling $225.9 million. In February 2021, we completed our Series F preferred stock financing with gross proceeds totaling $750.0 million. We have also entered into the Credit Facility (as defined below) with an available borrowing capacity of $200.0 million. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our revenue growth rate, our product sales, license renewal activity, the timing and the amount of cash received from customers, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the introduction of new and enhanced products, the continuing market adoption of our products, expenses associated with our international expansion, and the timing and extent of additional capital expenditures to invest in existing and new office spaces. We may, in the future, enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, products, and technologies. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that we require additional financing, we may not be able to raise such financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital or generate cash flows necessary to expand our operations and invest in continued innovation, we may not be able to compete successfully, which would harm our business, operations and financial condition. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, payments from customers, and borrowing capacity will be sufficient to fund our anticipated cash requirements for the next twelve months. Credit Facility In January 2020, we entered into an Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement (the "Credit Agreement") with HSBC Bank USA, N.A, HSBC Ventures USA Inc., and Silicon Valley Bank, which provided a $100.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility. We repaid the Credit Agreement in full in July 2020. In October 2020, we entered into a new Senior Secured Credit Facility (the "Credit Facility") with HSBC Ventures USA Inc., 66 Table of Contents Silicon Valley Bank, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, and Mizuho Bank, LTD, which provided a $200.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility with a maturity date of October 30, 2023. Our obligations under the Credit Facility are secured by substantially all of our assets, except for our intellectual property. The Credit Facility contains certain customary covenants, including, but not limited to, those relating to additional indebtedness, liens, asset divestitures, and affiliate transactions. We may use the proceeds of future borrowings under the Credit Facility for refinancing other indebtedness, working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes, including permitted business acquisitions. Borrowings under the Credit Facility bear interest at a base rate, as defined in the Credit Facility, plus a margin of 2.0% or 3.0% depending on the base rate. The Credit Facility is subject to customary fees for loan facilities of this type, including ongoing commitment fees at a rate of 0.25% per annum on the daily amount available to be drawn. As of January 31, 2022, we had no outstanding debt under the Credit Facility and were in compliance with our covenants thereunder. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Year Ended January 31, 2022 2021 (dollars in thousands) Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities (1) $ (54,963) $ 29,177 Net cash used in investing activities $ (35,442) $ (125,991) Net cash provided by financing activities $ 1,469,673 $ 250,418 (1) Inclusive of: Payments for employer payroll taxes related to employee equity transactions $ (51,693) $ Net receipts of employee tax withholdings on stock option exercises $ 6,382 $ Operating Activities Our largest source of operating cash is cash generation from sales to our customers. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for personnel-related expenses, direct costs to deliver our licenses, and marketing expenses. To date, our operating cash flows have generally been negative and we have supplemented working capital requirements primarily through net proceeds from the sale of equity securities. Net cash used in operating activities for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2022 of $55.0 million was driven by cash payments for operating expenditures, primarily associated with the compensation of our teams, including increased year-end fiscal 2021 sales commissions and bonuses paid in the first quarter of fiscal 2022 and employer payroll taxes related to employee equity transactions. Other cash operating expenditures included payments for professional services, software, and office rent. These outflows were partially offset by cash collections from our customers, which were approximately 44% higher than in the prior year. Net cash provided by operating activities for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2021 of $29.2 million was driven by cash collections from our customers, partially offset by cash payments for operating expenditures associated with the compensation of our teams and payments for professional services, software, and office rent. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2022 of $35.4 million was driven by $16.9 million in net purchases of marketable securities and other investments, $8.9 million in capital expenditures, $5.5 million in cash consideration associated with the acquisition of Cloud Elements, which is presented net of cash acquired, $3.0 million in capitalized software development costs, and $1.2 million in purchases of intangible assets. Net cash used in investing activities for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2021 of $126.0 million was driven by purchases of marketable securities of $103.1 million, deferred payments related to previous business 67 Table of Contents acquisitions of $19.7 million, capital expenditures of $2.0 million, and capitalized software development costs of $1.2 million. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2022 of $1,469.7 million was primarily driven by $749.8 million in net proceeds from issuance of Series F convertible preferred stock, $692.4 million in net proceeds from our IPO after deducting underwriting expenses and commissions, proceeds from employee stock purchase plan contributions of $19.0 million, proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $12.2 million, and net receipts of tax withholdings on sell-to-cover equity award transactions of $10.4 million, partially offset by payments of tax withholdings on net settlement of equity awards of $10.5 million and payments of IPO-related costs of $3.7 million. Net cash provided by financing activities for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2021 of $250.4 million was primarily driven by net proceeds from our Series E convertible preferred stock financing of $225.6 million and proceeds from exercises of stock options of $26.4 million. Material Cash Requirements The following table summarizes the aggregate effect that our material contractual obligations as of January 31, 2022 are expected to have on our cash flows in the periods indicated (in thousands): Payments Due by Period Total Less Than 1 Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years More Than 5 Years (dollars in thousands) Operating lease commitments $ 79,860 $ 2,399 $ 17,705 $ 10,337 $ 49,419 Purchase commitments 56,845 12,807 39,392 4,646 Total contractual obligations $ 136,705 $ 15,206 $ 57,097 $ 14,983 $ 49,419 The amounts in the table above are associated with agreements that are enforceable and legally binding. Obligations under contracts that we can cancel without a significant penalty are not included in the table above. Critical Accounting Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and amounts of revenue and expenses reported during the period. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, and we evaluate our estimates on an ongoing basis. The following are the accounting estimates that we believe have the most significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. ASC 606 requires recognition of revenue when control of promised goods or services is transferred to customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to receive in exchange for those goods or services. Revenue recognition is inherently judgmental, particularly in the case of complex arrangements that include multiple performance obligations. Our most significant judgments relate to the identification of performance obligations within a contract (including whether those obligations are distinct or should be combined), determining the standalone selling price ("SSP") for each performance obligation, and allocating the transaction price to the performance obligations, all of which impact the pattern and timing of revenue recognition. At the inception of a contract with a customer, we assess the goods or services promised to identify distinct performance obligations. The distinct performance obligations identified in our typical contracts include but are not limited to software license (term or perpetual), support and maintenance, when-and-if-available upgrades, training services, and professional services. If a promised good or service is determined not to be distinct, we combine that 68 Table of Contents good or service with other goods or services until the combined bundle is a distinct performance obligation, or until all goods or services in the contract have been combined into a single performance obligation. Most of our contracts contain multiple performance obligations. The transaction price is allocated to the separate performance obligations on a relative SSP basis. Whenever possible, we refer to observable SSP, which is the price of the same good or service in standalone sales to similar customers in similar circumstances. If observable SSP is not available, we next consider our prior geographical discounting practices for transactions within the preceding twelve months to determine whether a historical SSP exists. If neither observable SSP nor historical SSP is available, we utilize information such as external market data, broader historical pricing data, or list prices, while maximizing the use of observable inputs and methodologies, or, in cases of highly variable or uncertain selling price, may use a residual approach. For further information about our revenue recognition, refer to Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Revenue Recognition and Note 3, Revenue Recognition , included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Stock-Based Compensation We recognize stock-based compensation expense in accordance with the provisions of ASC 718, CompensationStock Compensation . ASC 718 requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all stock-based awards made to employees, directors, and non-employees based on the grant date fair value of the awards. The fair value of each RSU is equal to the fair value of our Class A common stock on the grant date. The fair value of stock options is determined using the Black-Scholes pricing model, which makes use of the following inputs: Fair value of our common stock. Subsequent to the IPO, market close price of our publicly-traded Class A common stock on the valuation date is used. Prior to the IPO, because there was no public market for our common stock, our board of directors, with the assistance of a third-party valuation specialist, determined the common stock fair value as of the valuation date. (See below for further discussion of pre-IPO valuation of our common stock.) Exercise price. Our current practice is to grant options with an exercise price of $0.10 in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions. Expected term. We do not yet have sufficient relevant historical exercise data to provide a reasonable basis for estimation of expected term post-IPO; we presently use the simplified method permitted under Staff Accounting Bulletin 14, which deems the expected term to be the average of the time-to-vest and the contractual life. Expected volatility. As a public market for our common stock did not exist prior to the IPO, we have limited trading history on which to base expectations of volatility; we presently estimate expected volatility based on the volatility of similar publicly held entities, referred to as guideline companies, over a look-back period equivalent to the expected term. In evaluating the similarity of guideline companies, we consider factors such as industry, stage of life cycle, size, and degree of financial leverage. Risk-free interest rate . The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield in effect at the time of grant for a period consistent with the expected term. Estimated dividend yield . The expected dividend is assumed to be zero, as we have never declared or paid any cash dividends and do not intend to declare dividends in the foreseeable future. Given their immaterial $0.10 exercise price, the Black-Scholes value of our recently granted stock options closely approximates intrinsic value, or fair value of common stock less exercise price; the other aforementioned inputs (expected term, expected volatility, risk-free interest rate, and estimated dividend yield) have an insignificant impact on the results of the Black-Scholes model. 69 Table of Contents As a result, our stock-based compensation expense is predominantly sensitive to the fair value of our common stock as it relates to the valuation of stock options and RSUs. Following our IPO, no estimates are involved in determining the fair value of our common stock because observable market prices are utilized. Prior to the IPO, the fair value of our common stock was determined by our board of directors, using contemporaneous third-party valuations and input from management, in accordance with the guidelines outlined in the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Practice Aid, Valuation of Privately-Held-Company Equity Securities Issued as Compensation . In valuing our common stock, the fair value of our business, or enterprise value, was determined based on objective and subjective factors using various methods under the market approach: The subject company transaction method involves the utilization of a companys own relevant stock transactions, such as the price at which a recent equity class was issued by the company or transacted between third parties. The guideline public company method estimates value based on a comparison of the company to comparable public companies in a similar line of business. From the comparable companies, a representative market value multiple is determined and then applied to our financial results to estimate the value of the subject company. The rate of return method estimates value by applying a rate of return, consistent with performance and achievement of development milestones, to a previously estimated equity value, such as one determined using the other methods. The resulting equity value was then allocated to each class of stock using the option pricing model or a hybrid method that considered both option pricing and the probability-weighted expected return method. After the equity value was determined and allocated to the various classes of stock, a discount for lack of marketability was applied to arrive at the fair value of ordinary shares, because it is assumed that a private company stockholder has limited opportunities to sell and that any such sale would involve significant transaction costs, thereby reducing overall fair market value. In assessing the fair value of common stock for grant dates occurring between formal valuations, we considered the amount of time between the valuation date and the grant date to determine whether to use the latest common stock valuation or a straight-line interpolation between the two valuation dates. During fiscal year 2022, we granted 3.0 million equity awards that were dependent on the subjective pre-IPO valuation techniques described above. A hypothetical 10% change in the estimated fair value of our common stock would have resulted in a $16.0 million change in the total fair value of these equity awards, $9.5 million of which would have been recognized in expense during the fiscal year ended January 31, 2022. For further information about our stock-based compensation, refer to Note 2 , S ummary of S ignificant Ac counting Polici es Stock-Based Compensation and Note 13 , Equity Incentive Plans and Stock-based Compensation , included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. JOBS Act Accounting Election We are an "emerging growth company", as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the "JOBS Act"), and, for so long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. In addition, pursuant to Section 107 of the JOBS Act, as an emerging growth company, we have elected to take advantage of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies until the earlier of the date we (1) are no longer an emerging growth company or (2) affirmatively and irrevocably opt out of the extended transition period provided in the JOBS Act. As a result, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. 70 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements and Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements, included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information.