Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes and the discussion under the heading Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2022 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on April 4, 2022 (the "2022 Form 10-K"). This discussion, particularly information with respect to our future results of operations or financial condition, business strategy and plans and objectives of management for future operations, includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties as described under the heading Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. You should review the disclosure under the heading Risk Factors in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and under Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors," in the 2022 Form 10-K for discussion of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements. Overview We are at the forefront of technology innovation and thought leadership in automation, creating an end-to-end platform that provides automation with user emulation at its core. Our platform leverages computer vision and artificial intelligence ("AI") to empower software robots to emulate human behavior and execute specific business processes, eliminating the need for employees to execute certain manual and mundane tasks. Our platform allows employees to focus on more value-added work and enables organizations to seamlessly automate business processes ranging from those in legacy information technology ("IT") systems and on-premises applications to new cloud-native infrastructure and applications without requiring significant changes to the organizations underlying technology infrastructure. Our platform is purpose-built to be used by employees throughout a company and to address a wide variety of use cases, from simple tasks to long-running, complex business processes. Our platform is designed to transform the way humans work. We provide our customers with a robust set of capabilities to discover automation opportunities and to build, manage, run, engage, measure, and govern automations across departments within an organization. Our platform leverages the power of AI-based computer vision to enable our software robots to perform a vast array of actions as a human would when executing business processes. These actions include, but are not limited to, logging into applications, extracting information from documents, moving folders, filling in forms, and updating information fields and databases. The ability of our robots to replicate humans' steps in executing business processes drives continuous improvements in operational efficiencies and enables companies to deliver on key digital initiatives with greater speed, agility, and accuracy. Our platform is designed to interact with and automate processes across a companys existing enterprise stack. As a result, our customers can leverage the power of our platform without the need to replace or change existing business applications and with lower overall IT infrastructure cost. Our platform enables employees to quickly build automations for both existing and new processes. Employees can seamlessly maintain and scale automations across multiple deployment options, constantly improve and evolve automations, and continuously track and measure the performance of automations, all without substantial technical experience. At the core of our automation platform is a set of capabilities that emulates human behavior, which provides our customers with the ability to automate both simple and complex use cases. Automations on our platform can be built, consumed, managed, and governed by any employee who interacts with computers, resulting in the potential for broad applicability of our platform across departments within an organization. Society is at a turning point in how organizations execute work, and we believe the ability to leverage software to enrich the employee experience will unlock tremendous value and efficiency opportunities. While we are still in the early days of a multi-year journey to the fully automated enterprise, momentum is growing as organizations across the world begin to understand the power of automation. Founded in a Bucharest, Romania apartment in 2005, UiPath was incorporated in 2015 as a company principally focused on building automation scripts and developing computer vision technology, which remains the foundation of our platform today. Since that time, we have developed and enhanced our RPA capabilities, launched new products, and expanded our operations across the globe. 23 Table of Contents We now offer a comprehensive range of automation solutions via a suite of interrelated software offerings. We generate revenue from the sale of licenses for our proprietary software, maintenance and support for our software, right to access certain products that are hosted by us (i.e., software as a service, or SaaS), and other services, including professional services. Our license fees are based primarily on the number of users who access our software and the number of automations running on our platform. Our license agreements generally have annual terms, and some of our license agreements have multi-year terms. We generally do not sell standalone licenses with a term of less than one year. However, during the term of an annual contract or the last year of a multi-year contract, our customers may enter into an additional license agreement with a termination date that is coterminous with the anniversary date of such annual contract. Additionally, we provide maintenance and support for our software as well as non-recurring professional services to facilitate the adoption of our platform. Our professional services complement the capabilities of our customers and partners as they improve customers time-to-market and optimize business outcomes using our platform. Our non-recurring professional services include use case development and deployment, solutions architecting, implementation consulting, and training. Our go-to-market model consists of an enterprise field sales force supplemented by an inside sales team focused on small and mid-sized customers, and a global strategic sales team focused on the largest global customers. As of April 30, 2022, we had more than 10,300 customers. Many of our customers expand the scope and size of use cases of our platform across their organizations as they quickly realize the power of our platform. We believe that the success of our land-and-expand business model is centered on our ability to deliver significant value in a very short time. We grow with our customers as they identify and expand the number of business processes to automate, which increases the number of robots deployed and the number of users interacting with our robots. A crucial component of our go-to-market strategy is our partner and channel ecosystem, which extends our local and global reach and helps to ensure that customers are able to rapidly build, deploy, and scale automations on our platform. Our business partners include global and regional system integrators, value-added resellers, and business consultants. We provide tiering recognition through Diamond, Gold, Silver, and Registered levels for partners that meet competency requirements and deliver and maintain a specified number of satisfied customers. These partnerships enhance our market presence and drive greater sales efficiencies. In addition, we have built strong technology partnerships and alliances to enable a large number of connectors and other technical capabilities necessary to meet the breadth of our customer needs. We generated revenue of $245.1 million and $186.2 million, representing a growth rate of 32%, and incurred a net loss of $122.6 million and $239.7 million in the three months ended April 30, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Our operating cash flows were $(52.9) million and $(17.5) million for the three months ended April 30, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Impact of COVID-19 When the COVID-19 pandemic began to unfold, we took decisive action across our internal and customer operations to ensure the resilience of our company and the safety of our employees. We temporarily shut down all offices and offered our employees technology stipends to encourage remote working, postponed most of our physical conferences and other customer and promotional events, implemented global travel restrictions, reduced headcount and expenses related to event marketing, and engaged in other discretionary cost-saving measures. Although we have recently selectively reopened certain of our offices and have begun permitting some travel and in-person meetings and events in compliance with applicable government orders and public health guidelines, the majority of our employees continue to work remotely. We have a distributed workforce and our employees are accustomed to remote work. Our operational rigor, digital infrastructure, and global footprint have enabled us to support our customers navigating new challenges presented by the pandemic and existing needs to automate. Global demand for automation continues as automation becomes more critical for business execution and performance in a remote working environment, and we have continued to invest in the development and marketing of our automation platform to meet that demand. For further information, see the section titled Risk Factors included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 24 Table of Contents Key Performance Metric We monitor annualized revenue run rate (" ARR ") to help us measure and evaluate the effectiveness of our operations: ARR is the key performance metric we use in managing our business because it illustrates our ability to acquire new subscription customers and to maintain and expand our relationship with existing subscription customers. We define ARR as annualized invoiced amounts per solution SKU from subscription licenses and maintenance obligations assuming no increases or reductions in their subscriptions. ARR does not include the costs we may incur to obtain such subscription licenses or provide such maintenance, and does not reflect any actual or anticipated reductions in invoiced value due to contract non-renewals or service cancellations other than for specific bad debt or disputed amounts. At April 30, 2022 and 2021, our ARR was $977.1 million and $652.6 million, respectively, representing a growth rate of 50%. Approximately 22% of this growth rate was due to new customers and approximately 78% of this growth rate was due to existing customers. Our dollar-based net retention rate, which represents the net expansion of ARR from existing customers over the preceding 12 months, was 138% and 145% as of April 30, 2022 and 2021, respectively. We calculate dollar-based net retention rate as of a period end by starting with ARR from the cohort of all customers as of 12 months prior to such period end ("Prior Period ARR"). We then calculate ARR from these same customers as of the current period end ("Current Period ARR"). Current Period ARR includes any expansion and is net of contraction or attrition over the last 12 months, but does not include ARR from new customers in the current period. We then divide the total Current Period ARR by the total Prior Period ARR to arrive at the point-in-time dollar-based net retention rate. Our ARR may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including customers satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our platform and professional services, pricing, competitive offerings, economic conditions, or overall changes in our customers spending levels. ARR should be viewed independently of revenue and deferred revenue as ARR is an operating metric and is not intended to be combined with or to replace these items. For clarity, we use annualized invoiced amounts per solution SKU rather than revenue calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP to calculate our ARR. Our invoiced amounts are not matched to transfer of control of the performance obligations associated with the underlying subscription licenses and maintenance obligations as they are with respect to our GAAP revenue. This can result in timing differences between our GAAP revenue and ARR calculations. Our ARR calculation simply takes our invoiced amounts per solution SKU under a subscription license or maintenance agreement and divides that amount by the invoice term and multiplies by 365 days to derive the annualized value. In contrast, for our revenue calculated in accordance with GAAP, subscription licenses revenue derived from the sale of term-based licenses hosted on-premises is recognized at the point in time when the customer is able to use and benefit from our software, which is generally upon delivery to the customer or upon the commencement of the renewal term, and maintenance, support, and SaaS revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement. ARR is not a forecast of future revenue, which can be impacted by contract start and end dates, duration, and renewal rates, and does not include invoiced amounts reported as perpetual licenses or professional services revenue in our condensed consolidated statements of operations. Investors should not place undue reliance on ARR as an indicator of our future or expected results. Moreover, our presentation of ARR may differ from similarly titled metrics presented by other companies and may not be comparable to such other metrics. For further information, see the section titled Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Business, Products, Operations, and Industry included in the 2022 Form 10-K. 25 Table of Contents A summary of ARR-related data at April 30, 2022 and 2021 is as follows: At April 30, 2022 2021 (dollars in thousands) ARR $ 977,067 $ 652,580 Incremental ARR 324,487 254,732 Customers with ARR greater than $1 million: Number of customers 168 104 Percent of current period revenue 40 % 37 % Customers with ARR greater than $100 thousand: Number of customers 1,574 1,105 Percent of current period revenue 79 % 75 % Dollar-based net retention rate 138 % 145 % Key Factors Affecting Our Performance Our results of operations and financial condition are impacted by the macro factors affecting our industry, including the proliferation of cloud-based applications, the cost of skilled human capital, and the global demand for automation solutions. While our business is influenced by these macro factors, our results of operations are more directly affected by certain company-specific factors, including: Growing Our Global Customer Base We believe there continues to be a substantial opportunity to continue to grow our customer base. Additionally, we believe that as more organizations adopt our automation platform and experience quantifiable competitive advantages, other organizations will also adopt automation as a necessary tool to compete. While we sell to organizations of all sizes and across a broad range of industries, our go-to-market teams key focus is on the largest organizations, including large enterprises and governments. We also use an inside sales team focused on small and mid-sized businesses. We plan to continue to invest in our go-to-market team to grow our customer base both domestically and internationally. We intend to continue to grow our customer base by focusing on the top 25 countries as measured by gross domestic product. Although these investments may adversely affect our operating results in the near term, we believe that they will contribute to our long-term growth. Our ability to attract new customers will also depend on a number of other factors, including our ability to drive awareness of the benefits and power of automation in the industry and among our existing and prospective customers, the effectiveness and pricing of our products, the offerings of our competitors, and competition among resellers. We define our number of customers as the number of accounts with a unique account identifier for which we have an active subscription in the period indicated, and include in our customer count entities to which we have sold our products either directly or through a channel partner. Users of our free trials or tier are not included in our customer count. A single organization with multiple divisions, segments, or subsidiaries is counted as a single customer. Our customer count is subject to adjustments for acquisitions, consolidations, spin-offs, and other market activity, and specifically excludes non-paying partners and resellers. Expanding Within Our Existing Customer Base Our customer base represents a significant opportunity for further sales expansion. We had over 10,300 and over 8,500 customers as of April 30, 2022 and 2021, respectively. We employ a land-and-expand business model centered around offering products that are easy to adopt and have a short time to value. We believe there is significant opportunity for us to become a strategic partner to our customers in their automation journeys and drive further sales expansion through the following vectors: deploy more robots across different departments; provide more employees with their own robot assistants; increase adoption of platform products; and 26 Table of Contents expand use cases for automation in the enterprise to drive increased usage of robots and capacity consumption of our various products. Our customers often expand the deployment of our platform across large teams and more broadly within the enterprise as they find new use cases for our platform and their employees increasingly interact with and gain confidence in working with robots. The power of our land-and-expand model is evidenced by our dollar-based net retention rate and our customers exceeding significant ARR thresholds, described in the section titled " Key Performance Metric ." We intend to continue to invest in enhancing awareness of our brand and developing more products, features, and functionality, which we believe are important factors to achieve widespread adoption of our platform. Our ability to increase sales to existing customers will depend on a number of factors, including our customers satisfaction with our solution, competition, pricing, and overall changes in our customers IT spending levels. Driving Preference and Share of System Integrators, Value-Added Resellers, and Business Consultants Selling the Value Propositions and Capabilities of Digital Transformation We are focused on maintaining and growing our ecosystem of partners that build, train, and certify skills in our technology as well as deploy our technology on behalf of their customers. We have built a global partner ecosystem of systems integrators, value-added resellers, business consultants, technology partners, and public cloud vendors. Our partner network includes, among others, Accenture LLP, Capgemini SE, Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation, Deloitte, EY, Infosys Limited, International Business Machines Corporation, PwC, Tata Consultancy Services Limited, and Wipro Limited. We provide a tiering recognition through Diamond, Gold, Silver, and Registered levels for partners that meet competency requirements and deliver and maintain a tiered number of satisfied customers. In May 2020, we launched the UiPath Services Network program to recognize an elite network of partners accredited with advanced delivery skills. We also offer a professional services capability that augments our partners efforts where necessary. Our ability to grow our partnership base depends on the competitiveness of our platform and the profitability of our relationship for our partners and potential partners. Sustaining Innovation and Automation Leadership Our success is dependent on our ability to sustain innovation and automation leadership in order to maintain our competitive advantage. We believe that we have built a differentiated automation platform and intend to continually increase the value we provide to our customers by investing in extending the capabilities of our platform. We have made and plan to continue to make significant investments in research and development to bolster our existing technology and enhance usability to improve our customers productivity. In May 2021, we released version 21.4 of the UiPath Platform. Innovations included the all-new Automation Ops, designed to help customers manage and govern high scale deployments of the UiPath Studio family of products and Attended Robots enterprise-wide. New AI-powered capabilities were also introduced to speed the discovery and prioritization of processes to automate, led by the general availability of Task Mining. In November 2021, we released version 21.10 of the UiPath Platform. Innovations in this release included UiPath Integration Service, which delivers API automation to help companies optimize the technologies they already have. Additionally, the introduction of Robot Auto-healing allows for the detection and remediation of robot issues without human intervention, and a host of other new features make our platform simpler, faster, and more gratifying for developers and end users. In May 2022, we released version 22.4 of the UiPath Platform. This release provides new SaaS robots, offers upleveled security and governance, and expands access to automation to macOS. We also collaborate with other leading technology companies to develop integrations that simplify the interoperability of our platform with their technology. Examples of integrations available to our customers include integrations with offerings from Amazon Web Services Inc., Adobe Inc., Alteryx Inc., Atlassian Corp Plc, Box, Inc., Crowdstrike Inc., DocuSign Inc., Microsoft Corporation, Oracle Corporation, Qlik Technologies Inc., Salesforce.com, Inc., SAP SE, ServiceNow, Inc., Snowflake, Inc., and Workday, Inc. These pre-built integrations can accelerate the adoption of our platform within our customers environments and speed the creation of automations that span multiple technologies. We also maintain partnerships with leading cloud vendors, such as Amazon Web Services Inc., Google Inc., and Microsoft Corporation, to both simplify the deployment of our platform and extend our platform to offer customers the benefits of cloud-based AI capabilities. We are focused on maintaining and growing our ecosystem of partners to continue to expand our market presence and drive greater sales efficiencies. 27 Table of Contents In addition, we intend to continue to evaluate strategic acquisitions and investments in businesses and technologies to drive product and market expansion. For example, in March 2021, we acquired Cloud Elements, a provider of a leading API integration platform for SaaS application providers and the digital enterprise. This acquisition brings technology and an experienced team, which we believe will accelerate our technology roadmap in areas such as native integrations and system event automation triggers. Our future success is dependent on our ability to successfully develop, market, and sell existing and new products to both new and existing customers and maintain and expand our relationships with leading technology partners. Continuing to Invest to Grow and Scale Our Business We are focused on driving our growth potential over the long term. We believe that our market opportunity is substantial. We intend to continue to invest to grow our operations globally over time. We have a history of introducing successful new products and capabilities on our platform and we believe these investments will contribute to our long-term growth. Components of Results of Operations Revenue We derive revenue from the sale of software licenses for use of our proprietary software, maintenance and support for our licenses, right to access certain software products we host (i.e., SaaS), and professional services. We offer a comprehensive range of automation solutions via a suite of interrelated software offerings. Customers can license our software and deploy our platform on-premises, in a public or private cloud, or in a hybrid environment. In addition, we offer a managed, multi-tenant, SaaS version of certain products (i.e., our SaaS products), which enables our customers to begin automating without the need to provision infrastructure, install applications or perform additional configurations. We also offer maintenance and support, training, and implementation services to our customers to facilitate their adoption of our platform. In fiscal 2021, we began offering both hybrid solutions and SaaS products. Hybrid solutions are comprised of three performance obligations, consisting of a term license, maintenance and support, and SaaS. During the third quarter of fiscal 2022, maintenance and support revenue was renamed subscription services revenue, and services and other revenue was renamed professional services and other revenue. We believe that that the new captions better reflect the composition of the revenue streams included in these line items on the condensed consolidated statements of operations. Licenses We primarily sell term licenses, which provide customers the right to use software for a specified period of time. From time to time, we also sell perpetual licenses that provide customers the right to use software for an indefinite period of time. For both types of licenses, revenue is recognized at the point in time at which the customer is able to use and benefit from the software, which is generally upon delivery to the customer or upon commencement of the renewal term. Subscription Services Subscription services revenue consists of maintenance and support revenue generated through technical support and the provision of unspecified updates and upgrades on a when-and-if-available basis for both term and perpetual license arrangements. Maintenance and support for perpetual licenses is renewable, generally on an annual basis, at the option of the customer. Maintenance and support represents a stand-ready obligation for which revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement. Subscription services revenue also consists of revenue related to our SaaS products, including those sold as part of our hybrid offerings. Our SaaS products are stand-ready obligations to provide access to our software, and the associated revenue is recognized ratably over the contractual period of the arrangement beginning when or as control of the promised service begins to transfer to the customer. 28 Table of Contents Professional Services and Other Professional services and other revenue consists of fees associated with professional services for process automation, customer education, and training services. Our professional services contracts are structured on a time and materials or fixed price basis and the related revenue is recognized as the services are rendered. Cost of Revenue Licenses Cost of licenses revenue consists of all direct costs to deliver our licenses to customers, amortization of software development costs, direct costs related to third-party software resales, and amortization of acquired developed technology. Subscription Services Cost of subscription services revenue primarily consists of personnel-related expenses of our customer support and technical support teams, including salaries and bonuses, stock-based compensation expense, and employee benefit costs. Cost of subscription services revenue also includes third-party consulting services, hosting costs related to our SaaS products, amortization of acquired developed technology and capitalized software development costs related to SaaS products, and allocated overhead. Overhead is allocated to cost of subscription services revenue based on applicable headcount. We recognize these expenses as they are incurred. We expect cost of subscription services revenue to continue to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as our customer base grows. In the future, we expect further expansion of our cloud-based deployments. As cloud-based software and services become a larger percentage of our total revenue, we expect the cloud offering to impact the timing of our recognition of revenue as well as impact our operating margins due to an increase in hosting fees and cloud infrastructure costs. Professional Services and Other Cost of professional services and other revenue primarily consists of personnel-related expenses of our professional services team, including salaries and bonuses, stock-based compensation expense, and employee benefit costs. Cost of professional services and other revenue also includes expenses related to third-party consulting services and allocated overhead. Overhead is allocated to cost of professional services and other revenue based on applicable headcount. We recognize these expenses as they are incurred. We expect cost of professional services and other revenue to continue to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as our customer base grows. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative expenses. Personnel-related expenses are the most significant component of operating expenses and consist of salaries and bonuses, stock-based compensation expense, and employee benefit costs. Operating expenses also include allocated overhead. During fiscal years 2022 and 2021, certain operating expenses, such as travel and entertainment, decreased, primarily as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. We have recently begun permitting some travel and in-person meetings and events, and expect a resumption of travel and entertainment and related expenses during fiscal year 2023, although the timing and magnitude of these expenses will depend on a number of factors including the trend of the pandemic and potential changes to travel restrictions and stay-at-home orders. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel-related expenses associated with our sales and marketing teams and related sales support teams, including salaries and bonuses, stock-based compensation expense, and employee benefit costs. Sales and marketing expenses also include sales and partner commissions, marketing event costs, advertising costs, travel, trade shows, other marketing materials, and allocated overhead. Similar to travel and entertainment, trade show expenses decreased in fiscal year 2021 and through the first half of fiscal year 2022 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. We have since seen trade show expenses resume. We plan to increase our investment in sales and marketing in absolute dollars over the foreseeable future as we continue to hire additional personnel and invest in sales and marketing programs. We expect that our sales and marketing expense will decrease as a percentage of our total revenue over the long term, although our sales and marketing 29 Table of Contents expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel-related expenses, including salaries and bonuses, stock-based compensation expense, and employee benefits costs for our research and development employees. Research and development costs are expensed as incurred, with the exception of certain software development costs which are eligible for capitalization. We expect that our research and development expenses will increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as we continue to invest in efforts to develop new technology and enhance the functionality and capabilities of our existing products and platform infrastructure. Our research and development expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel-related expenses, including salaries and bonuses, stock-based compensation expense, and employee benefits costs associated with our finance, legal, human resources, compliance, and other administrative teams, as well as accounting and legal professional services fees, other corporate-related expenses, and allocated overhead. Following the completion of the initial public offering ("IPO") in April 2021, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur additional general and administrative expenses as a result of operating as a public company. Accordingly, we expect the dollar amount of our general and administrative expenses to increase for the foreseeable future. We expect that our general and administrative expenses will decrease as a percentage of our total revenue as our revenue grows over the longer term, although our general and administrative expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. Interest Income Interest income consists of interest income earned on our cash deposits, cash and cash equivalents balances, and marketable securities. Other Expense, Net Other expense, net primarily consists of foreign exchange gains and losses. Provision For Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists mainly of income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We maintain a full valuation allowance on our U.S. federal and state, Romanian, and U.K. deferred tax assets as we have concluded that it is more likely than not that these deferred tax assets will not be realized. Our effective tax rate is affected by tax rates in foreign jurisdictions and the relative amounts of income we earn in those jurisdictions, as well as by non-deductible expenses as permanent differences, and by changes in our valuation allowances. 30 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following tables set forth selected condensed consolidated statement of operations data and such data as a percentage of total revenue for each of the periods indicated: Three Months Ended April 30, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Revenue: Licenses $ 117,004 $ 100,216 Subscription services 115,494 77,642 Professional services and other 12,568 8,359 Total revenue 245,066 186,217 Cost of revenue: Licenses (1) 2,537 2,454 Subscription services (1)(2)(3) 21,045 14,179 Professional services and other (2)(3) 21,434 32,377 Total cost of revenue 45,016 49,010 Gross profit 200,050 137,207 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing (1)(2)(3) 189,782 205,751 Research and development (2)(3) 68,690 93,040 General and administrative (1)(2)(3) 57,530 74,415 Total operating expenses 316,002 373,206 Operating loss (115,952) (235,999) Interest income 991 941 Other expense, net (2,811) (3,218) Loss before income taxes (117,772) (238,276) Provision for income taxes 4,789 1,387 Net loss $ (122,561) $ (239,663) (1) Includes amortization of acquired intangible assets as follows: Cost of licenses revenue $ 596 $ 646 Cost of subscription services revenue 330 110 Sales and marketing 414 161 General and administrative 46 Total amortization of acquired intangible assets $ 1,386 $ 917 (2) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Cost of subscription services revenue $ 3,216 $ 6,214 Cost of professional services and other revenue 3,874 18,931 Sales and marketing 50,758 119,293 Research and development 26,623 65,616 General and administrative 16,983 40,781 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 101,454 $ 250,835 (3) Includes employer payroll tax expense related to equity transactions as follows: Cost of subscription services revenue $ 84 $ Cost of professional services and other revenue 79 Sales and marketing 1,427 315 Research and development 481 General and administrative 177 Total employer payroll tax expense related to equity transactions $ 2,248 $ 315 31 Table of Contents Three Months Ended April 30, 2022 2021 (as a percentage of revenue) Revenue: Licenses 48 % 54 % Subscription services 47 % 42 % Professional services and other 5 % 4 % Total revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue: Licenses 1 % 1 % Subscription services 8 % 8 % Professional services and other 9 % 17 % Total cost of revenue 18 % 26 % Gross profit 82 % 74 % Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 77 % 111 % Research and development 28 % 50 % General and administrative 24 % 40 % Total operating expenses 129 % 201 % Operating loss (47) % (127) % Interest income % 1 % Other expense, net (1) % (2) % Loss before income taxes (48) % (128) % Provision for income taxes 2 % 1 % Net loss (50) % (129) % 32 Table of Contents Comparison of the Three Months Ended April 30, 2022 and 2021 Revenue Three Months Ended April 30, 2022 2021 Change Change % (dollars in thousands) Licenses $ 117,004 $ 100,216 $ 16,788 17 % Subscription services 115,494 77,642 37,852 49 % Professional services and other 12,568 8,359 4,209 50 % Total revenue $ 245,066 $ 186,217 $ 58,849 32 % Total revenue increased by $58.8 million, or 32%, for the three months ended April 30, 2022 compared to the three months ended April 30, 2021, primarily due to an increase in subscription services revenue of $37.9 million and an increase in licenses revenue of $16.8 million. As we continued to expand our sales efforts in the United States and internationally, total revenue grew across all regions. Of the growth in total revenue, approximately 31% was attributable to new customers and the remainder to existing customers. Subscription services revenue is recognized ratably over the subscription term; therefore, the increase in subscription services revenue is driven both by sales in prior periods for which we continue to provide maintenance and support and by new sales in the current period. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Three Months Ended April 30, 2022 2021 Change Change % (dollars in thousands) Licenses $ 2,537 $ 2,454 $ 83 3 % Subscription services 21,045 14,179 6,866 48 % Professional services and other 21,434 32,377 (10,943) (34) % Total cost of revenue $ 45,016 $ 49,010 $ (3,994) (8) % Gross Margin 82 % 74 % Total cost of revenue decreased by $4.0 million, or 8%, for the three months ended April 30, 2022 compared to the three months ended April 30, 2021, mainly due to a decrease in cost of professional services and other revenue that was partially offset by an increase in cost of subscription services revenues. The decrease in cost of professional services and other revenue was driven by a decrease of $15.6 million in personnel-related expenses, primarily due to a decrease in stock-based compensation as a result of the satisfaction of IPO-related performance conditions for restricted stock units ("RSUs") during the three months ended April 30, 2021, partially offset by a $4.7 million increase in third-party consulting fees. The increase in cost of subscription services revenue was primarily driven by a $3.8 million increase in personnel-related expenses, which included an increase of $6.8 million in salary-related and bonus expenses, mainly driven by an increase in headcount, partially offset by a decrease in stock-based compensation of $3.0 million, driven by the satisfaction of IPO-related performance conditions for RSUs during the three months ended April 30, 2021. Cost of subscription services revenue was also impacted by an increase in hosting costs of $2.5 million and a $0.5 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense. Our gross margin increased to 82% for the three months ended April 30, 2022 compared to 74% for the three months ended April 30, 2021, primarily due to lower stock-based compensation expense as a result of the satisfaction of IPO-related performance conditions for RSUs during the three months ended April 30, 2021. 33 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended April 30, 2022 2021 Change Change % (dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 189,782 $ 205,751 $ (15,969) (8) % Percentage of revenue 77 % 111 % Sales and marketing expense decreased by $16.0 million, or 8%, for the three months ended April 30, 2022 compared to the three months ended April 30, 2021. The decrease was primarily attributable to a decrease of $41.0 million in personnel-related expenses, which included a decrease of $68.5 million in stock-based compensation, driven by the satisfaction of IPO-related performance conditions for RSUs during the three months ended April 30, 2021, partially offset by an increase of $26.1 million in salary-related and bonus expenses, mainly driven by an increase in headcount, and an increase of $1.4 million in employer payroll tax expense related to equity transactions. Sales and marketing expense was also impacted by an increase of $9.8 million in sales commission expense mainly due to the amortization of previously capitalized deferred contract acquisition costs, an aggregate increase of $12.1 million related to brand marketing, recruiting, travel, and software services expenses, an increase of $1.8 million in impairment charges on property and equipment as a result of an early termination of one of our office leases, and an increase of $1.0 million in rent expense. Research and Development Three Months Ended April 30, 2022 2021 Change Change % (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 68,690 $ 93,040 $ (24,350) (26) % Percentage of revenue 28 % 50 % Research and development expense decreased by $24.4 million, or 26%, for the three months ended April 30, 2022 compared to the three months ended April 30, 2021. The decrease was primarily attributable to a decrease of $28.8 million in personnel-related expenses, which included a decrease of $39.0 million in stock-based compensation, driven by the satisfaction of IPO-related performance conditions for RSUs during the three months ended April 30, 2021, partially offset by an increase of $10.2 million in salary-related and bonus expenses, mainly driven by an increase in headcount. Research and development expense was also impacted by an increase of $3.9 million related to software services and third-party consulting expenses. General and Administrative Three Months Ended April 30, 2022 2021 Change Change % (dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 57,530 $ 74,415 $ (16,885) (23) % Percentage of revenue 24 % 40 % General and administrative expense decreased by $16.9 million, or 23%, for the three months ended April 30, 2022 compared to the three months ended April 30, 2021. The decrease was primarily attributable to a decrease of $21.3 million in personnel-related expenses, which included a decrease of $23.8 million in stock-based compensation, driven by the satisfaction of IPO-related performance conditions for RSUs during the three months ended April 30, 2021, partially offset by an increase of $2.5 million in salary-related expenses, mainly driven by an increase in headcount, an increase of $2.7 million in insurance-related expenses as a result of becoming a public company, an increase of $2.1 million in other tax expense, an increase of $1.7 million in bad-debt expense primarily associated with Russian customers, and an increase of $1.6 million in software service expenses. General and administrative expense was also impacted by a decrease of $2.5 million in third-party consulting services and a decrease of $0.8 million in travel-related expenses. 34 Table of Contents Interest Income Three Months Ended April 30, 2022 2021 Change Change % (dollars in thousands) Interest income $ 991 $ 941 $ 50 5 % Percentage of revenue % 1 % Interest income increased by $0.1 million, or 5%, for the three months ended April 30, 2022 compared to the three months ended April 30, 2021 as a result of the period-over-period increase in our marketable securities. Other Expense, Net Three Months Ended April 30, 2022 2021 Change Change % (dollars in thousands) Other expense, net $ (2,811) $ (3,218) $ 407 (13) % Percentage of revenue (1) % (2) % Other expense, net decreased by $0.4 million, or 13%, for the three months ended April 30, 2022 compared to the three months ended April 30, 2021. The decrease was primarily attributable to greater foreign currency transaction losses incurred in the prior year. Provision For Income Taxes Three Months Ended April 30, 2022 2021 Change Change % (dollars in thousands) Provision for income taxes $ 4,789 $ 1,387 $ 3,402 245 % Percentage of revenue 2 % 1 % Provision for income taxes increased by $3.4 million, or 245%, for the three months ended April 30, 2022 compared to the three months ended April 30, 2021. The increase in tax expense is driven primarily by higher foreign tax expenses resulting from higher year-over-year earnings in certain foreign jurisdictions as we continue to scale internationally. Liquidity and Capital Resources We have financed operations since our inception primarily through customer payments and net proceeds from sales of equity securities. Our principal uses of cash in recent periods have been funding our operations, investing in capital expenditures, and engaging in various business acquisitions. As of April 30, 2022, our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities totaling $1,801.3 million, and we had an accumulated deficit of $1,618.5 million. During the three months ended April 30, 2022, we reported a net loss of $122.6 million, and net cash used in operations of $52.9 million. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our revenue growth rate, our product sales, license renewal activity, the timing and the amount of cash received from customers, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the introduction of new and enhanced products, the continuing market adoption of our products, expenses associated with our international expansion, and the timing and extent of additional capital expenditures to invest in existing and new office spaces. We may, in the future, enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, products, and technologies. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that we require additional financing, we may not be able to raise such financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital or generate cash flows necessary to expand our operations and invest in continued innovation, we may not be able to compete successfully, which would harm our business, operations and financial condition. 35 Table of Contents We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, payments from customers, and borrowing capacity will be sufficient to fund our anticipated cash requirements for the next twelve months and the long term. Credit Facility In October 2020, we entered into a $200.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility (the "Credit Facility") with HSBC Ventures USA Inc., Silicon Valley Bank, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, and Mizuho Bank, LTD, with a maturity date of October 30, 2023. Our obligations under the Credit Facility are secured by substantially all of our assets, except for our intellectual property. The Credit Facility contains certain customary covenants, including, but not limited to, those relating to additional indebtedness, liens, asset divestitures, and affiliate transactions. We may use the proceeds of future borrowings under the Credit Facility for refinancing other indebtedness, working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes, including permitted business acquisitions. Borrowings under the Credit Facility bear interest at a base rate, as defined in the Credit Facility, plus a margin of 2.0% or 3.0% depending on the base rate. The Credit Facility is subject to customary fees for loan facilities of this type, including ongoing commitment fees at a rate of 0.25% per annum on the daily amount available to be drawn. As of April 30, 2022, we had no outstanding debt under the Credit Facility. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended April 30, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Net cash used in operating activities (1) $ (52,884) $ (17,522) Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities $ (15,697) $ 10,873 Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities $ (18,187) $ 1,442,913 (1) Inclusive of: Payments for employer payrolls taxes related to employee equity transactions $ (3,034) $ Net payments of employee tax withholdings on stock option exercises $ (5,757) $ Operating Activities Our largest source of operating cash is cash generation from sales to our customers. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for personnel-related expenses, direct costs to deliver our licenses, and marketing expenses. To date, our operating cash flows have generally been negative and we have supplemented working capital requirements primarily through net proceeds from the sale of equity securities. Net cash used in operating activities for the three months ended April 30, 2022 of $52.9 million was driven by cash payments for operating expenditures, primarily associated with the compensation of our teams, including bonuses paid in the first quarter of fiscal 2023. Other cash operating expenditures included payments for professional services, software, and office rent. These outflows were partially offset by cash collections from our customers, which were approximately 33% higher than during the three months ended April 30, 2021. Net cash used in operating activities for the three months ended April 30, 2021 of $17.5 million was driven by cash payments for operating expenditures, primarily associated with the compensation of our teams, including increased year-end fiscal 2021 sales commissions and bonuses paid in the first quarter of fiscal 2022. Other cash operating expenditures included payments for professional services, software, and office rent. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended April 30, 2022 of $15.7 million was driven by $21.9 million in purchases of marketable securities and $9.7 million in capital expenditures, partially offset by $14.8 million in maturities of marketable securities and $1.1 million in other investing inflows. 36 Table of Contents Net cash provided by investing activities for the three months ended April 30, 2021 of $10.9 million was driven by $113.1 million in sales and maturities of marketable securities. This was partially offset by $94.2 million in purchases of marketable securities, $5.5 million in cash consideration associated with the acquisition of Cloud Elements, which is presented net of cash acquired, and $2.2 million in capital expenditures. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities for the three months ended April 30, 2022 of $18.2 million was primarily driven by payments of tax withholdings on the net settlement of equity awards of $17.3 million and net payments of tax withholdings on sell-to-cover equity award transactions of $10.0 million, partially offset by proceeds from employee stock purchase plan contributions of $6.4 million and proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $2.8 million. Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended April 30, 2021 of $1,442.9 million was primarily driven by $749.8 million in net proceeds from issuance of Series F convertible preferred stock and $692.4 million in net proceeds from our IPO. Material Cash Requirements There were no material changes to our material cash requirements during the three months ended April 30, 2022 from the contractual obligations disclosed in the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, set forth in the 2022 Form 10-K. Critical Accounting Estimates There have been no material changes to our critical accounting estimates as compared to those disclosed in the 2022 Form 10-K. JOBS Act Accounting Election We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (the "JOBS Act"), and, for so long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. In addition, pursuant to Section 107 of the JOBS Act, as an emerging growth company, we have elected to take advantage of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies until the earlier of the date we (1) are no longer an emerging growth company or (2) affirmatively and irrevocably opt out of the extended transition period provided in the JOBS Act. As a result, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 , Summary of Significant Accounting PoliciesRecently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements and Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements , included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information.