Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview The companys revenue and margins in the current quarter were impacted by lower services revenue. This resulted in a net loss attributable to Unisys Corporation common shareholders in the current quarter of $43.2 million, or a loss of $.87 per diluted share, compared with first-quarter 2014 net loss attributable to Unisys Corporation common shareholders of $53.5 million, or $1.15 per diluted share. In connection with organizational initiatives designed to create a more competitive cost structure and rebalance the companys global skill set, the company expects to recognize a pretax restructuring charge currently estimated at approximately $300 million over the next several quarters. The company expects to reduce worldwide headcount by approximately eight percent and will also be reducing its facilities footprint. As a result of these actions, the company expects to generate annualized savings of approximately $200 million by the end of 2016. Results of operations Company results Revenue for the quarter ended March 31, 2015 was $721.2 million compared with $761.7 million for the first quarter of 2014, a decrease of 5% from the prior year. Foreign currency fluctuations had a 6 percentage-point negative impact on revenue in the current period compared with the year-ago period. Services revenue decreased 6% and Technology revenue increased 3% in the current quarter compared with the year-ago period. The increase in the companys technology revenue was due to higher sales of the companys proprietary enterprise software and servers. U.S. revenue increased 10% in the first quarter compared with the year-ago period. International revenue decreased 16% in the current quarter due to declines in all geographic areas. Foreign currency had an 11 percentage-point negative impact on international revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared with the three months ended March 31, 2014. Total gross profit margin was 16.2% in the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared with 17.5% in the three months ended March 31, 2014. The decline principally reflected higher pension expense. Selling, general and administrative expense in the three months ended March 31, 2015 was $128.8 million (17.9% of revenue) compared with $138.5 million (18.2% of revenue) in the year-ago period. Research and development (R&D) expenses in the first quarter of 2015 were $18.2 million compared with $14.4 million in the first quarter of 2014. For the first quarter of 2015, the company reported an operating loss of $30.0 million compared with an operating loss of $19.9 million in the first quarter of 2014. Pension expense was $8.4 million higher in the first quarter of 2015 compared with the first quarter of 2014. For the three months ended March 31, 2015, pension expense was $27.9 million compared with pension expense of $19.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014. For the full year 2015, the company expects to recognize pension expense of approximately $111 million compared with $73.8 million for the full year of 2014. The company records pension income or expense, as well as other employee-related costs such as payroll taxes and medical insurance costs, in operating income in the following income statement categories: cost of revenue; selling, general and administrative expenses; and research and development expenses. The amount allocated to each category is principally based on where the salaries of active employees are charged. Interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2015 was $2.6 million compared with $2.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014. Other income (expense), net was income of $4.9 million in the first quarter of 2015 compared with expense of $9.8 million in 2014. Included in the first quarter of 2015 were foreign exchange gains of $3.4 million. Included in the first quarter of 2014 were foreign exchange losses of $9.1 million, including $5.8 million related to Venezuela. 14 The loss before income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2015 was $27.7 million compared with a loss of $31.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014. The provision for income taxes was $13.3 million in the current quarter compared with $16.0 million in the year-ago period. As discussed in Note (i) of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the company evaluates quarterly the realizability of its deferred tax assets by assessing its valuation allowance and by adjusting the amount of such allowance, if necessary. The company records a tax provision or benefit for those international subsidiaries that do not have a full valuation allowance against their net deferred tax assets. Any profit or loss recorded for the companys U.S. operations has no provision or benefit associated with it due to a full valuation allowance. As a result, the companys provision or benefit for taxes may vary significantly quarter to quarter depending on the geographic distribution of income. Segment results Effective January 1, 2015, the company changed the grouping of certain of its classes of products and services. As a result, certain revenue (principally company technology products) previously reported in the companys Services segment is now reported in its Technology segment. As a result, prior-periods segment revenue and cost of sales, as well as customer revenue by classes of similar products and services, have been reclassified to conform to the current-year period. The company has two business segments: Services and Technology. Revenue classifications within the Services segment are as follows: Cloud & infrastructure services. This represents revenue from work the company performs in the data center and cloud area, technology consulting and technology-based systems integration projects, as well as global service desks and global field services. Application services. This represents revenue from application managed services and application development, maintenance and support work. Business processing outsourcing services. This represents revenue from the management of clients specific business processes. The accounting policies of each business segment are the same as those followed by the company as a whole. Intersegment sales and transfers are priced as if the sales or transfers were to third parties. Accordingly, the Technology segment recognizes intersegment revenue and manufacturing profit on hardware and software shipments to customers under Services contracts. The Services segment, in turn, recognizes customer revenue and marketing profits on such shipments of company hardware and software to customers. The Services segment also includes the sale of hardware and software products sourced from third parties that are sold to customers through the companys Services channels. In the companys consolidated statements of income, the manufacturing costs of products sourced from the Technology segment and sold to Services customers are reported in cost of revenue for Services. Also included in the Technology segments sales and operating profit are sales of hardware and software sold to the Services segment for internal use in Services engagements. The amount of such profit included in operating income of the Technology segment for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 was $1.5 million and $.4 million, respectively. The profit on these transactions is eliminated in Corporate. The company evaluates business segment performance based on operating income exclusive of pension income or expense, restructuring charges and unusual and nonrecurring items, which are included in Corporate. All other corporate and centrally incurred costs are allocated to the business segments based principally on revenue, employees, square footage or usage. 15 Information by business segment is presented below (in millions of dollars): Total Eliminations Services Technology Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 Customer revenue $ 721.2 $ 639.0 $ 82.2 Intersegment $ (6.7 ) 6.7 Total revenue $ 721.2 $ (6.7 ) $ 639.0 $ 88.9 Gross profit percent 16.2 % 14.1 % 49.6 % Operating profit (loss) percent (4.2 )% (1.3 )% 5.2 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 Customer revenue $ 761.7 $ 681.7 $ 80.0 Intersegment $ (6.1 ) .2 5.9 Total revenue $ 761.7 $ (6.1 ) $ 681.9 $ 85.9 Gross profit percent 17.5 % 15.8 % 41.3 % Operating profit (loss) percent (2.6 )% 1.5 % (16.4 )% Gross profit percent and operating income (loss) percent are as a percent of total revenue. Customer revenue by classes of similar products or services, by segment, is presented below (in millions of dollars): Three Months Ended March 31 Percent Change 2015 2014 Services Cloud & infrastructure services $ 378.5 $ 419.4 (9.8 )% Application services 202.4 196.2 3.2 % Business processing outsourcing services 58.1 66.1 (12.1 )% 639.0 681.7 (6.3 )% Technology 82.2 80.0 2.8 % Total $ 721.2 $ 761.7 (5.3 )% In the Services segment, customer revenue was $639.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015, down 6.3% from the three months ended March 31, 2014. Foreign currency translation had a 6 percentage-point negative impact on Services revenue in the current quarter compared with the year-ago period. Revenue from cloud & infrastructure services was $378.5 million in the March 2015 quarter down 9.8% compared with the March 2014 quarter. Unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate changes were the most significant driver behind the decline. Application services revenue increased 3.2% for the three month period ended March 31, 2015 compared with the three month period ended March 31, 2014. New contract wins at the companys U.S. Federal business was a major contributor to the increase. Business processing outsourcing services revenue decreased 12.1% in the current quarter compared with the prior-year quarter. Services gross profit was 14.1% in the first quarter of 2015 compared with 15.8% in the year-ago period. Services operating income (loss) percent was (1.3)% in the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared with 1.5% in the three months ended March 31, 2014. Both gross profit and operating profit margins were impacted by start-up costs on new multi-year engagements, as well as lower project work in existing services accounts. 16 In the Technology segment, customer revenue increased 2.8% to $82.2 million in the current quarter compared with $80.0 million in the year-ago period, due to higher ClearPath revenue. Foreign currency translation had a 10 percentage-point negative impact on Technology revenue in the current quarter compared with the year-ago period. Technology gross profit was 49.6% in the current quarter compared with 41.3% in the year-ago quarter. Technology operating income (loss) percent was 5.2% in the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared with (16.4)% in the three months ended March 31, 2014. The increases reflect higher sales of the companys proprietary enterprise software and servers in the current quarter. New accounting pronouncements See note (l) of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on the companys consolidated financial statements. Financial condition The companys principal sources of liquidity are cash on hand, cash from operations and its revolving credit facility, discussed below. The company and certain international subsidiaries have access to uncommitted lines of credit from various banks. The company believes that it will have adequate sources of liquidity to meet its expected near-term cash requirements. Cash and cash equivalents at March 31, 2015 were $402.0 million compared with $494.3 million at December 31, 2014. As of March 31, 2015, $303.2 million of cash and cash equivalents were held by the companys foreign subsidiaries and branches operating outside of the U.S. In the future, if these funds are needed for the companys operations in the U.S., the company may be required to accrue and pay taxes to repatriate these funds. During the three months ended March 31, 2015, cash used for operations was $43.3 million compared with cash provided by operations of $20.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014. Cash provided by operations during the first quarter of 2015 was positively impacted by a decrease in cash contributions to the companys defined benefit pension plans. During the first quarter of 2015, the company contributed cash of $38.7 million to such plans compared with $55.5 million during the first quarter of 2014. Cash used for investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2015 was $29.1 million compared with cash usage of $41.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2014. Net proceeds of investments were $26.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared with net proceeds of $2.6 million in the prior-year period. Proceeds from investments and purchases of investments represent derivative financial instruments used to reduce the companys currency exposure to market risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. In addition, in the current quarter, the investment in marketable software was $16.7 million compared with $20.7 million in the year-ago period, capital additions of properties were $13.9 million in 2015 compared with $15.2 million in 2014 and capital additions of outsourcing assets were $26.7 million in 2015 compared with $8.7 million in 2014. The higher capital expenditures largely reflected increased investments in new outsourcing agreements. Cash provided by financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2015 was $3.2 million compared with cash used of $2.3 million during the three months ended March 31, 2014. At March 31, 2015, total debt was $223.8 million compared with $224.0 million at December 31, 2014. On April 1, 2015, the company entered into a secured borrowing whereby it received $31.8 million of cash secured by an account receivable. The $31.8 million will be reported as debt in the second quarter. The company has a secured revolving credit facility, expiring in June 2018, which provides for loans and letters of credit up to an aggregate amount of $150 million (with a limit on letters of credit of $100 million). Borrowing limits under the credit agreement are based upon the amount of eligible U.S. accounts receivable. At March 31, 2015, the company had no borrowings and $18.8 million of letters of credit outstanding under the facility. At March 31, 2015, availability under the facility was $120.7 million net of letters of credit issued. Borrowings under the facility will bear interest based on short-term 17 rates. The credit agreement contains customary representations and warranties, including that there has been no material adverse change in the companys business, properties, operations or financial condition. The company is required to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio if the availability under the credit facility falls below the greater of 12.5% of the lenders commitments under the facility and $18.75 million. The credit agreement allows the company to pay dividends on its capital stock in an amount up to $22.5 million per year unless the company is in default and to, among other things, repurchase its equity, prepay other debt, incur other debt or liens, dispose of assets and make acquisitions, loans and investments, provided the company complies with certain requirements and limitations set forth in the agreement. Events of default include non-payment, failure to comply with covenants, materially incorrect representations and warranties, change of control and default under other debt aggregating at least $50 million. The credit facility is guaranteed by Unisys Holding Corporation, Unisys NPL, Inc., Unisys AP Investment Company I and any future material domestic subsidiaries. The facility is secured by the assets of Unisys Corporation and the subsidiary guarantors, other than certain excluded assets. The company may elect to prepay or terminate the credit facility without penalty. At March 31, 2015, the company has met all covenants and conditions under its various lending and funding agreements. The company expects to continue to meet these covenants and conditions. In 2015, the company expects to make cash contributions of approximately $131 million to its worldwide defined benefit pension plans, which is comprised of $78 million primarily for non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans and $53 million for the companys U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan. The company has on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission an effective registration statement, expiring in February of 2018, covering debt or equity securities, which enables the company to be prepared for future market opportunities. The company may, from time to time, redeem, tender for, or repurchase its securities in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions depending upon availability, market conditions and other factors. On March 1, 2014, all of the outstanding shares of 6.25% mandatory convertible preferred stock (2,587,400 shares) were automatically converted (in accordance with its terms) into 6,912,756 shares of the companys common stock. Because March 1, 2014 was not a business day, the mandatory conversion was effected on Monday, March 3, 2014. Factors that may affect future results From time to time, the company provides information containing forward-looking statements, as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Words such as anticipates, believes, expects, intends, plans, projects and similar expressions may identify such forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements rely on assumptions and are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause the companys actual results to differ materially from expectations. Factors that could affect future results include, but are not limited to, those discussed below. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which that statement is made. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date on which the statement is made. Factors that could affect future results include the following: The companys future results will depend upon its ability to effectively anticipate and respond to volatility and rapid technological innovation in its industry. The company operates in a highly volatile industry characterized by rapid technological innovation, evolving technology standards, short product life cycles and continually changing customer demand patterns. Future success will depend in part on the companys ability to anticipate and respond to these market trends and to design, develop, introduce, deliver or obtain new and innovative products, services and software on a timely and cost-effective basis using new delivery models such as cloud computing. The company may not be successful in anticipating or responding to changes in technology, industry standards or customer preferences, and the market may not demand or accept its services and product offerings. In addition, products and services developed by competitors may make the companys offerings less competitive. 18 Future results will also depend on the companys ability to maintain and grow its technology business. The company continues to invest in developing new high-end enterprise server products, cybersecurity software, cloud-based products and other offerings to meet client needs, including the Forward! by Unisys line of fabric servers and the Unisys Stealth family of cybersecurity software. Future results will depend on the companys ability to effectively market and sell these new products while maintaining its installed base for ClearPath and developing next-generation ClearPath products. Future results will depend on the companys ability to improve margins in its services business. The companys ability to grow profitably in this business will depend on the level of demand for projects and the portfolio of solutions the company offers for specific industries. It will also depend on an efficient utilization of services delivery personnel. In addition, profit margins in this business are a function of both the portfolio of solutions sold in a given period and the rates the company is able to charge for services and the chargeability of its professionals. If the company is unable to attain sufficient rates and chargeability for its professionals, profit margins will be adversely affected. The rates the company is able to charge for services are affected by a number of factors, including clients perception of the companys ability to add value through its services; introduction of new services or products by the company or its competitors; pricing policies of competitors; and general economic conditions. Chargeability is also affected by a number of factors, including the companys ability to transition employees from completed projects to new engagements, and its ability to forecast demand for services and thereby maintain an appropriate headcount. The companys future results will depend on driving efficiencies across all of its operations. The company has begun to implement significant cost-reduction measures and continues to focus on measures intended to further improve cost efficiency. Future results will depend on the success of these efforts. The companys future results will depend in part on its ability to attract, motivate and retain experienced and knowledgeable personnel in key positions . The success of the companys business is dependent upon its ability to employ and train individuals with the requisite knowledge, skills and experience to execute the companys business model and achieve its business objectives. The failure of the company to retain key personnel or implement an appropriate succession plan could adversely impact the companys ability to successfully carry out its business strategy and retain other key personnel. The company faces aggressive competition in the information services and technology marketplace, which could lead to reduced demand for the companys products and services and could have an adverse effect on the companys business. The information services and technology markets in which the company operates include a large number of companies vying for customers and market share both domestically and internationally. The companys competitors include consulting and other professional services firms, systems integrators, outsourcing providers, infrastructure services providers, computer hardware manufacturers and software providers. Some of the companys competitors may develop competing products and services that offer better price-performance or that reach the market in advance of the companys offerings. Some competitors also have or may develop greater financial and other resources than the company, with enhanced ability to compete for market share, in some instances through significant economic incentives to secure contracts. Some also may be better able to compete for skilled professionals. Any of these factors could lead to reduced demand for the companys products and services and could have an adverse effect on the companys business. Future results will depend on the companys ability to mitigate the effects of aggressive competition on revenues, pricing and margins and on the companys ability to attract and retain talented people. The companys future results will depend on its ability to retain significant clients. The company has a number of significant long-term contracts with clients, including governmental entities, and its future success will depend, in part, on retaining its relationships with these clients. The company could lose clients for such reasons as contract expiration, conversion to a competing service provider, dissatisfaction with the companys efficiency initiatives, disputes with clients or a decision to in-source services, including contracts with governmental entities as part of the rebid process. The company could also lose clients as a result of their merger, acquisition or business failure. The company may not be able to replace the revenue and earnings from any such lost client. 19 The companys contracts may not be as profitable as expected or provide the expected level of revenues . In a number of the companys long-term services contracts, the companys revenue is based on the volume of products and services provided. As a result, revenue levels anticipated at the contracts inception are not guaranteed. In addition, some of these contracts may permit termination at the customers discretion before the end of the contracts term or may permit termination or impose other penalties if the company does not meet the performance levels specified in the contracts. The companys contracts with governmental entities are subject to the availability of appropriated funds. These contracts also contain provisions allowing the governmental entity to terminate the contract at the governmental entitys discretion before the end of the contracts term. In addition, if the companys performance is unacceptable to the customer under a government contract, the government retains the right to pursue remedies under the affected contract, which remedies could include termination. Certain of the companys services agreements require that the companys prices be benchmarked if the customer requests it and provide that those prices may be adjusted downward if the pricing for similar services in the market has changed. As a result, revenues anticipated at the beginning of the terms of these contracts may decline in the future. Some of the companys services contracts are fixed-price contracts under which the company assumes the risk for delivery of the contracted services and products at an agreed-upon fixed price. Should the company experience problems in performing fixed-price contracts on a profitable basis, adjustments to the estimated cost to complete may be required. Future results will depend on the companys ability to perform these services contracts profitably. Cybersecurity breaches could result in the company incurring significant costs and could harm the companys business and reputation. The companys business includes managing, processing, storing and transmitting proprietary and confidential data, including personal information, intellectual property and proprietary business information, within the companys own IT systems and those that the company designs, develops, hosts or manages for clients. Cybersecurity breaches involving these systems by hackers, other third parties or the companys employees, despite established security controls, could disrupt these systems or result in the loss or corruption of data or the unauthorized disclosure or misuse of information of the company, its clients or others. This could result in litigation and legal liability for the company, lead to the loss of existing or potential clients and adversely affect the markets perception of the security and reliability of the companys products and services. In addition, such breaches could subject the company to fines and penalties for violations of laws and result in the company incurring other significant costs. This may negatively impact the companys reputation and financial results. A significant disruption in the companys IT systems could adversely affect the companys business and reputation. We rely extensively on our IT systems to conduct our business and perform services for our clients. Our systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, telecommunications failures, computer viruses and malicious attacks, cybersecurity breaches and catastrophic events. If our systems are damaged or fail to function properly, we could incur substantial repair or replacement costs, experience data loss and impediments to our ability to conduct our business, and damage the markets perception of our products and services. In addition, a disruption could result in the company failing to meet performance standards and obligations in its client contracts, which could subject the company to liability, penalties and contract termination. This may adversely affect the companys reputation and financial results. The company may face damage to its reputation or legal liability if its clients are not satisfied with its services or products. The success of the companys business is dependent on strong, long-term client relationships and on its reputation for responsiveness and quality. As a result, if a client is not satisfied with the companys services or products, its reputation could be damaged and its business adversely affected. Allegations by private litigants or regulators of improper conduct, as well as negative publicity and press speculation about the company, whatever the outcome and whether or not valid, may harm its reputation. In addition to harm to reputation, if the company fails to meet its contractual obligations, it could be subject to legal liability, which could adversely affect its business, operating results and financial condition. 20 Future results will depend in part on the performance and capabilities of third parties with whom the company has commercial relationships. The company maintains business relationships with suppliers, channel partners and other parties that have complementary products, services or skills. Future results will depend, in part, on the performance and capabilities of these third parties, on the ability of external suppliers to deliver components at reasonable prices and in a timely manner, and on the financial condition of, and the companys relationship with, distributors and other indirect channel partners, which can affect the companys capacity to effectively and efficiently serve current and potential customers and end users. The company has significant pension obligations and may be required to make additional significant cash contributions to its defined benefit pension plans. The company has unfunded obligations under its U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans. In 2014, the company made cash contributions of $183.4 million to its worldwide defined benefit pension plans. Based on current legislation, recent interest rates and expected returns, in 2015 the company estimates that it will make cash contributions to its worldwide defined benefit pension plans of approximately $130.8 million, which is comprised of $52.6 million for the companys U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan and $78.2 million primarily for non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans. Deterioration in the value of the companys worldwide defined benefit pension plan assets, as well as discount rate changes, could require the company to make larger cash contributions to its defined benefit pension plans in the future. In addition, the funding of plan deficits over a shorter period of time than currently anticipated could result in making cash contributions to these plans on a more accelerated basis. Either of these events would reduce the cash available for working capital and other corporate uses and may have an adverse impact on the companys operations, financial condition and liquidity. The companys business can be adversely affected by global economic conditions, acts of war, terrorism or natural disasters. The companys financial results have been impacted by the global economic slowdown in recent years. If economic conditions worsen, the company could see reductions in demand and increased pressure on revenue and profit margins. The company could also see a further consolidation of clients, which could also result in a decrease in demand. The companys business could also be affected by acts of war, terrorism or natural disasters. Current world tensions could escalate, and this could have unpredictable consequences on the world economy and on the companys business. The companys contracts with U.S. governmental agencies may subject the company to audits, criminal penalties, sanctions and other expenses and fines. The company frequently enters into contracts with governmental entities. U.S. government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency and the Department of Labor, routinely audit government contractors. These agencies review a contractors performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. The U.S. government also may review the adequacy of, and a contractors compliance with, contract terms and conditions, its systems and policies, including the contractors purchasing, property, estimating, billing, accounting, compensation and management information systems. Any costs found to be overcharged or improperly allocated to a specific contract or any amounts improperly billed or charged for products or services will be subject to reimbursement to the government. In addition, government contractors, such as the company, are required to disclose credible evidence of certain violations of law and contract overpayments to the federal government. If the company is found to have participated in improper or illegal activities, the company may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government. Any negative publicity related to such contracts, regardless of the accuracy of such publicity, may adversely affect the companys business or reputation. More than half of the companys revenue is derived from operations outside of the United States, and the company is subject to the risks of doing business internationally. More than half of the companys total revenue is derived from international operations. The risks of doing business internationally include foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, currency restrictions and devaluations, changes in political or economic conditions, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, multiple and possibly overlapping and conflicting tax laws, new tax legislation, weaker intellectual property protections in some jurisdictions and additional legal and regulatory compliance requirements applicable to businesses that operate internationally, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and non-U.S. laws and regulations. 21 Financial market conditions may inhibit the companys ability to access capital and credit markets to address its liquidity needs. Financial market conditions may impact the companys ability to borrow, to refinance its outstanding debt, or to utilize surety bonds, letters of credit, foreign exchange derivatives and other financial instruments the company uses to conduct its business. Although the company primarily uses cash on hand to address its liquidity needs, its ability to do so assumes that its operations will continue to generate sufficient cash. The companys services or products may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. The company cannot be sure that its services and products do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, and it may have infringement claims asserted against it or against its clients. These claims could cost the company money, prevent it from offering some services or products, or damage its reputation. Pending litigation could affect the companys results of operations or cash flow. There are various lawsuits, claims, investigations and proceedings that have been brought or asserted against the company, which arise in the ordinary course of business, including actions with respect to commercial and government contracts, labor and employment, employee benefits, environmental matters, intellectual property and non-income tax and employment compensation in Brazil. See Note (h) of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on litigation. The company believes that it has valid defenses with respect to legal matters pending against it. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, however, and it is possible that the companys results of operations or cash flow could be materially affected in any particular period by the resolution of one or more of the legal matters pending against it. The company could face business and financial risk in implementing future dispositions or acquisitions. As part of the companys business strategy, it may from time to time consider disposing of existing technologies, products and businesses that may no longer be in alignment with its strategic direction, including transactions of a material size, or acquiring complementary technologies, products and businesses. Potential risks with respect to dispositions include difficulty finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner; potential loss of employees or clients; dispositions at unfavorable prices or on unfavorable terms, including relating to retained liabilities; and post-closing indemnity claims. Any acquisitions may result in the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness or contingent liabilities. Acquisitions could also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities and an increase in amortization expenses related to intangible assets. Additional potential risks associated with acquisitions include integration difficulties; difficulties in maintaining or enhancing the profitability of any acquired business; risks of entering markets in which the company has no or limited prior experience; potential loss of employees or failure to maintain or renew any contracts of any acquired business; and expenses of any undiscovered or potential liabilities of the acquired product or business, including relating to employee benefits contribution obligations or environmental requirements. Further, with respect to both dispositions and acquisitions, managements attention could be diverted from other business concerns. Adverse credit conditions could also affect the companys ability to consummate dispositions or acquisitions. The risks associated with dispositions and acquisitions could have a material adverse effect upon the companys business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that the company will be successful in consummating future dispositions or acquisitions on favorable terms or at all.