ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (For a discussion of 2018 compared with 2017 , refer to Part II, Item 7 contained in the companys Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018 .) Overview Effective January 1, 2018, the company adopted the requirements of Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) using the modified retrospective method whereby prior periods were not restated. This resulted in an adjustment to 2018 Technology revenue and profit of $53.0 million ($47.7 million, net of tax, or $0.65 per diluted share). The adjustment represents revenue from software license extensions and renewals, which were contracted for in the fourth quarter of 2017 and properly recorded as revenue at that time under the revenue recognition rules then in effect (Topic 605). Topic 606 requires revenue related to software license renewals or extensions to be recorded when the new license term begins, which in the case of the $53.0 million, was January 1, 2018. The company reported 2019 net loss attributable to Unisys Corporation of $17.2 million , or loss of $0.31 per share, compared with 2018 net income of $75.5 million , or income of $1.30 per diluted share. The companys financial results in the current year were impacted by increases in revenue due to new business principally driven by the companys U.S. business. In addition, the company recorded a charge of $20.1 million on the convertible note exchange as well as $28.7 million of cost-reduction and other costs. See Note 14, Debt, and Note 3, Cost-reduction actions, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. On February 5, 2020, the company entered into an asset purchase agreement to sell its U.S. Federal business to Science Applications International Corporation for a cash purchase price of $1.2 billion, subject to a net working capital adjustment. The U.S. Federal business provides certain products and services to U.S. federal government customers. The sale is expected to close in the first half of 2020 and is subject to receipt of regulatory clearance under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 as well as the satisfaction or waiver of other customary closing conditions. The U.S. Federal business, which has operations in both of the companys reporting segments of Services and Technology, generated 2019 revenue and pre-tax income of approximately $725 million and $100 million, respectively. The U.S. Federal business will be reported as discontinued operations in 2020. When the sale is complete, the company expects to report an after-tax gain on the sale of approximately $1 billion. Due to the companys U.S. tax position, no federal income tax is expected to be payable on the sale and, subject to the final purchase price allocation to the assets sold, state income taxes are expected to be minimal. The company primarily intends to use the net proceeds from the sale to redeem its senior secured notes due 2022 and reduce its obligations under its U.S. defined benefit pension plans. In connection with the entry into the asset purchase agreement to sell the U.S. Federal business, the company also adopted a Tax Asset Protection Plan designed to protect the companys tax assets in contemplation of the sale transaction. This plan is similar to tax benefit protection plans adopted by other public companies with significant tax attributes and is designed to protect the companys valuable tax assets by reducing the likelihood of an ownership change through actions involving the companys securities. See Risk Factors-- Risks Related to the Announced Sale of the Companys U.S. Federal Business-- An ownership change could limit the companys ability to utilize net operating losses and certain other tax attributes to offset the gain from the pending sale of the U.S. Federal business for more information. Results of operations Company results Revenue for 2019 was $2.95 billion compared with $2.83 billion for 2018 , an increase of 4.4% principally due to increases within the companys U.S. business offset in part by the impact of the $53.0 million Topic 606 adjustment described above. Excluding this adjustment, revenue increased 6.4%. Foreign currency fluctuations had a 3 -percentage-point negative impact on revenue in the current year compared with the year-ago period. Services revenue increased 7.0% and Technology revenue decreased 9.7% year over year with the prior-year Topic 606 adjustment primarily contributing to the Technology revenue decline. Excluding the Topic 606 adjustment of $53.0 million, Technology revenue increased 2.7%. Foreign currency fluctuations had a 3 -percentage-point negative impact on Services revenue and a 3 -percentage-point negative impact on Technology revenue in the current year compared with the year-ago period. Revenue from international operations in 2019 and 2018 was $1.40 billion and $1.59 billion , respectively. Without the Topic 606 adjustment, 2018 revenue from international operations was $1.54 billion. Foreign currency had a 4 -percentage-point 21 negative impact on international revenue in 2019 compared with 2018 . Revenue from U.S. operations was $1.55 billion in 2019 and $1.24 billion in 2018 . Excluding the Topic 606 adjustment, U.S. revenue was $1.23 billion in 2018. During 2019 , the company recognized cost-reduction charges and other costs of $28.7 million , principally related to a reduction in employees. The charges related to work-force reductions were $22.1 million , principally related to severance costs, and were comprised of: (a) a charge of $4.6 million for 509 employees and $(1.5) million for changes in estimates in the U.S. and (b) a charge of $21.1 million for 255 employees and $(2.1) million for changes in estimates outside the U.S. In addition, the company recorded charges of $6.6 million comprised of $4.6 million for lease abandonment costs, $1.1 million for asset write-offs and $0.9 million for other expenses related to the cost-reduction effort. The charges were recorded in the following statement of income classifications: cost of revenue services, $10.8 million ; cost of revenue - technology, $0.2 million ; selling, general and administrative expenses, $15.5 million ; and research and development expenses, $2.2 million . During 2018 , the company recognized cost-reduction charges and other costs of $19.7 million , principally related to a reduction in employees. The charges related to work-force reductions were $19.0 million , principally related to severance costs, and were comprised of : (a) a charge of $5.2 million for 264 employees and $0.1 million for changes in estimates in the U.S. and (b) a charge of $22.5 million for 325 employees and $(8.8) million for changes in estimates outside the U.S. In addition, the company recorded a charge of $0.7 million for changes in estimates related to idle leased facilities costs. The 2018 charges were recorded in the following statement of income classifications: cost of revenue - services, $18.1 million and selling, general and administrative expenses, $1.6 million . Gross profit as a percent of total revenue, or gross profit percent, was 22.6% in 2019 and 24.3% in 2018 . Gross profit in 2018 was positively impacted by the Topic 606 adjustment described above. Excluding the Topic 606 adjustment, total gross profit percent in the prior year was 22.8%. Gross profit in 2019 was positively impacted by $19.8 million related to the change in useful life of the companys proprietary enterprise software. See Note 1, Summary of significant accounting policies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $396.9 million in 2019 ( 13.5% of revenue) and $370.3 million in 2018 ( 13.1% of revenue). Included in the prior year was a $7.3 million gain on the sale of property in the U.K. Excluding the Topic 606 adjustment of $53.0 million, selling, general and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue was 13.4% in 2018. Research and development (R&D) expenses in 2019 were $31.3 million compared with $31.9 million in 2018 . In 2019 , the company reported an operating profit of $238.2 million compared with an operating profit of $284.1 million in 2018 . Operating profit margin in 2018 was positively impacted by the Topic 606 adjustment described above. Excluding this adjustment, total operating profit in 2018 was $231.1 million. Interest expense was $62.1 million in 2019 and $64.0 million in 2018 . The decline from the prior year was principally due to the convertible notes exchange. See Note 14, Debt, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Other income (expense), net was expense of $136.4 million in 2019 compared with expense of $76.9 million in 2018 . Included in 2019 was postretirement expense of $93.3 million , a loss on debt exchange of $20.1 million and foreign exchange losses of $10.4 million . Included in 2018 was postretirement expense of $80.3 million , a foreign non-income tax settlement gain of $13.9 million and $5.9 million of foreign exchange losses. Pension expense for 2019 was $92.7 million compared with $79.7 million in 2018 . For 2020 , the company expects to recognize pension expense of approximately $90.0 million . The company records the service cost component of pension income or expense, as well as other employee-related costs such as payroll taxes and medical insurance costs, in operating income in the following income statement categories: cost of revenue; selling, general and administrative expenses; and research and development expenses. The amount allocated to each category is based on where the salaries of active employees are charged. All other components of pension income or expense are recorded in other income (expense), net in the consolidated statements of income. Income (loss) before income taxes in 2019 was income of $39.7 million compared with income of $143.2 million in 2018 . The provision for income taxes in 2019 and 2018 was $53.0 million and $64.3 million , respectively. In 2018, the provision for income taxes includes expense of $5.3 million related to the Topic 606 adjustment described above and a benefit of $6.6 million due to the release of a valuation allowance on certain deferred tax assets (net operating losses) as a result of the identification of an additional source of taxable income available in prior periods. The company evaluates quarterly the realizability of its deferred tax assets by assessing its valuation allowance and by adjusting the amount of such allowance, if necessary. The company records a tax provision or benefit for those international subsidiaries that do not have a full valuation allowance against their deferred tax assets. Any profit or loss recorded for the companys U.S. operations will have no provision or benefit associated with it due to the companys valuation allowance, except with respect to refundable tax credits and withholding taxes not creditable against future taxable income. As a result, the companys provision or benefit for taxes may vary significantly period to period depending on the geographic distribution of income. 22 The realization of the companys net deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2019 is primarily dependent on forecasted future taxable income within certain foreign jurisdictions. Any reduction in estimated forecasted future taxable income may require the company to record an additional valuation allowance against the remaining deferred tax assets. Any increase or decrease in the valuation allowance would result in additional or lower income tax expense in such period and could have a significant impact on that periods earnings. Net income attributable to Unisys Corporation common shareholders for 2019 was a loss of $17.2 million , or $0.31 per common share, compared with income of $75.5 million , or $1.30 per diluted common share, in 2018 . Segment results The company has two business segments: Services and Technology. Revenue classifications within the Services and Technology segment are as follows: Cloud and infrastructure services. This represents revenue from helping clients apply cloud and as-a-service delivery models to capitalize on business opportunities, make their end users more productive and manage and secure their IT infrastructure and operations more economically. Application services. This represents revenue from helping clients transform their business processes by developing and managing new leading-edge applications for select industries, offering advanced data analytics and modernizing existing enterprise applications. Business process outsourcing (BPO) services. This represents revenue from the management of critical processes and functions for clients in target industries, helping them improve performance and reduce costs. Technology. This represents revenue from designing and developing software and offering hardware and other related products to help clients improve security and flexibility, reduce costs and improve the efficiency of their data-center environments. The accounting policies of each business segment are the same as those followed by the company as a whole. Intersegment sales and transfers are priced as if the sales or transfers were to third parties. Accordingly, the Technology segment recognizes intersegment revenue and manufacturing profit on software and hardware shipments to customers under Services contracts. The Services segment, in turn, recognizes customer revenue and marketing profits on such shipments of company software and hardware to customers. The Services segment also includes the sale of software and hardware products sourced from third parties that are sold to customers through the companys Services channels. In the companys consolidated statements of income, the manufacturing costs of products sourced from the Technology segment and sold to Services customers are reported in cost of revenue for Services. Also included in the Technology segments sales and operating profit are sales of software and hardware sold to the Services segment for internal use in Services engagements. The amount of such profit included in operating income of the Technology segment for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 was $5.7 million and $4.2 million , respectively. The profit on these transactions is eliminated in Corporate. The company evaluates business segment performance based on operating income exclusive of postretirement income or expense, restructuring charges and unusual and nonrecurring items, which are included in Corporate. All other corporate and centrally incurred costs are allocated to the business segments based principally on revenue, employees, square footage or usage. See Note 19, Segment information, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Information by business segment for 2019 and 2018 is presented below: (millions) Total Corporate Services Technology 2019 Customer revenue $ 2,948.7 $ $ 2,552.7 $ 396.0 Intersegment (15.2 ) 15.2 Total revenue $ 2,948.7 $ (15.2 ) $ 2,552.7 $ 411.2 Gross profit percent 22.6 % 16.6 % 61.8 % Operating profit percent 8.1 % 4.2 % 41.9 % 2018 Customer revenue $ 2,825.0 $ $ 2,386.3 $ 438.7 Intersegment (24.7 ) 24.7 Total revenue $ 2,825.0 $ (24.7 ) $ 2,386.3 $ 463.4 Gross profit percent 24.3 % 16.0 % 69.4 % Operating profit percent 10.1 % 2.8 % 51.3 % Gross profit percent and operating income percent are as a percent of total revenue. 23 Customer revenue by classes of similar products or services, by segment, for 2019 and 2018 is presented below: Year ended December 31 (millions) 2019 2018 Percentage Change Services Cloud & infrastructure services $ 1,567.7 $ 1,363.4 15.0 % Application services 750.4 772.4 (2.8 )% BPO services 234.6 250.5 (6.3 )% Total Services 2,552.7 2,386.3 7.0 % Technology 396.0 438.7 (9.7 )% Total customer revenue $ 2,948.7 $ 2,825.0 4.4 % In the Services segment, customer revenue was $2.6 billion in 2019 and $2.4 billion in 2018 . The growth in revenue was principally due to increases within the companys U.S. business. Foreign currency fluctuations had a 2.6 -percentage-point negative impact on revenue in 2019 compared with 2018 . Revenue from cloud & infrastructure services was $1.6 billion in 2019 , up 15.0% compared with 2018 . Foreign currency fluctuations had a 2.5 -percentage-point negative impact on cloud & infrastructure services revenue in the current period compared with the year-ago period. Application services revenue decreased 2.8% in 2019 compared with 2018 . Foreign currency fluctuations had a 2.2 -percentage-point negative impact on application services revenue in the current period compared with the year-ago period. Business process outsourcing services revenue decreased 6.3% in 2019 compared with 2018 . Foreign currency fluctuations had a 3.8 -percentage-point negative impact on business process outsourcing services revenue in the current period compared with the year-ago period. Services gross profit percent was 16.6% in 2019 compared with 16.0% in 2018 . Services operating profit percent was 4.2% in 2019 compared with 2.8% in 2018 . Current period Services margins reflect benefits derived from reduced costs of services delivery. The prior-year operating profit margin was positively impacted by the gain on the sale of property in the U.K. In the Technology segment, customer revenue decreased 9.7% to $396.0 million in 2019 compared with $438.7 million in 2018 . The decline is principally attributed to the prior-year Topic 606 adjustment of $53.0 million described above. Excluding the Topic 606 adjustment, customer revenue increased 2.7%. Foreign currency translation had a 2.6 -percentage-point negative impact on Technology revenue in 2019 compared with 2018 . Technology gross profit percent was 61.8% in 2019 compared with 69.4% in 2018 . Technology operating profit percent was 41.9% in 2019 compared with 51.3% in 2018 . The decrease in gross profit and operating profit percent in 2019 was primarily due to the prior-year Topic 606 adjustment. Excluding the impact of the Topic 606 adjustment, gross profit percent was 65.4% and operating profit percent was 45.0% in 2018. The decrease in gross profit percent and operating profit percent, excluding the Topic 606 adjustment, is primarily due to a lower mix of higher margin software sales. New accounting pronouncements See Note 2, Recent accounting pronouncements and accounting changes, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on the companys consolidated financial statements. Financial condition The companys principal sources of liquidity are cash on hand, cash from operations and its revolving credit facility, discussed below. The company and certain international subsidiaries have access to uncommitted lines of credit from various banks. The company believes that it will have adequate sources of liquidity to meet its expected cash requirements through at least February 28, 2021. Cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2019 were $538.8 million compared with $605.0 million at December 31, 2018 . As of December 31, 2019 , $303.1 million of cash and cash equivalents were held by the companys foreign subsidiaries and branches operating outside of the U.S. The company may not be able to readily transfer up to one-third of these funds out of the country in which they are located as a result of local restrictions, contractual or other legal arrangements or commercial considerations. Additionally, any transfers of these funds to the U.S. in the future may require the company to accrue or pay withholding or other taxes on a portion of the amount transferred. See Note 6, Income taxes, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements regarding the companys intention to indefinitely reinvest earnings of foreign subsidiaries. 24 During 2019 , cash provided by operations was $123.9 million compared with cash provided by operations of $73.9 million in 2018 . Cash used for investing activities in 2019 was $158.2 million compared with cash usage of $185.0 million in 2018 . Net proceeds from investments in 2019 were $2.8 million compared with net purchases of $14.0 million in 2018 . Proceeds from investments and purchases of investments represent derivative financial instruments used to manage the companys currency exposure to market risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. In addition, capital additions of properties were $38.0 million in 2019 compared with $35.6 million in 2018 , capital additions of outsourcing assets were $48.8 million in 2019 compared with $73.0 million in 2018 and the investment in marketable software was $73.0 million in 2019 compared with $80.7 million in 2018 . The decrease in capital expenditures is attributed in part to the company funding some of the 2019 additions by entering into installment payment and vendor agreements. The prior-year period includes net proceeds of $19.2 million related to the sale of property in the U.K. Cash used for financing activities during 2019 was $38.0 million compared with cash used for financing activities of $4.8 million in 2018 . The increase in cash usage in the current year is principally due to the convertible notes exchange partially offset by proceeds received from the issuance of debt as described below. At December 31, 2019 , total debt was $579.6 million compared with $652.8 million at December 31, 2018 . The decrease is primarily due to the convertible notes exchange offset in part by the issuance of debt described below. On August 2, 2019, the company entered into separate, privately negotiated exchange agreements pursuant to which it (i) issued an aggregate of 10,593,930 shares of its common stock, and (ii) paid cash in an aggregate amount of $59.4 million, such cash amount included $3.1 million of accrued and unpaid interest on the exchanged Convertible Senior Notes due 2021 (the 2021 Notes) up to, but excluding, the settlement date, in exchange for $129.3 million in aggregate principal amount of its outstanding 2021 Notes. The transactions closed on August 6, 2019. Upon closing, $84.2 million aggregate principal amount of 2021 Notes remain outstanding. In connection with the transactions, the company unwound a pro rata portion of the capped call transactions that it entered into with the initial purchasers and/or affiliates of the initial purchasers of the 2021 Notes and received proceeds of $7.2 million. Following the convertible note exchange, the capped call transactions remaining cover approximately 8.6 million shares of the companys common stock. As a result of the exchange, the company recognized a charge of $20.1 million. On March 27, 2019, the company entered into an Installment Payment Agreement (IPA) with a syndicate of financial institutions to finance the acquisition of certain software licenses necessary for the provision of services to a client. The IPA was in the amount of $27.7 million, of which $4.8 million matures on March 30, 2022 and $22.9 million matures on December 30, 2023. Interest accrues at an annual rate of 7.0% and the company is required to make monthly principal and interest payments on each agreement in arrears. On September 5, 2019, the company entered into a vendor agreement in the amount of $19.3 million to finance the acquisition of certain software licenses used to provide services to our clients. Interest accrues at an annual rate of 5.47% and the company is required to make annual principal and interest payments in advance with the last payment due on March 1, 2024. The company has a secured revolving credit facility (the Credit Agreement) that provides for loans and letters of credit up to an aggregate amount of $145.0 million (with a limit on letters of credit of $30.0 million). The Credit Agreement includes an accordion feature allowing for an increase in the facility up to $150.0 million . Availability under the credit facility is subject to a borrowing base calculated by reference to the companys receivables. At December 31, 2019 , the company had no borrowings and $5.9 million of letters of credit outstanding, and availability under the facility was $139.1 million net of letters of credit issued. The Credit Agreement expires October 5, 2022, subject to a springing maturity (i) on the date that is 91 days prior to the maturity date of the companys convertible notes due 2021 unless, on such date, certain conditions are met; or (ii) on the date that is 60 days prior to the maturity date of the companys secured notes due 2022 unless, by such date, such secured notes have not been redeemed or refinanced. The credit facility is guaranteed by Unisys Holding Corporation, Unisys NPL, Inc., Unisys AP Investment Company I and any future material domestic subsidiaries. The facility is secured by the assets of the company and the subsidiary guarantors, other than certain excluded assets, under a security agreement entered into by the company and the subsidiary guarantors in favor of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as agent for the lenders under the credit facility. The company is required to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio if the availability under the credit facility falls below the greater of 10% of the lenders commitments under the facility and $15.0 million . The Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, including that there has been no material adverse change in the companys business, properties, operations or financial condition. The Credit Agreement includes limitations on the ability of the company and its subsidiaries to, among other things, incur other debt or liens, dispose of assets and make acquisitions, loans and investments, repurchase its equity, and prepay other debt. Events of default include non-payment, failure 25 to comply with covenants, materially incorrect representations and warranties, change of control and default under other debt aggregating at least $50.0 million . At December 31, 2019 , the company has met all covenants and conditions under its various lending and funding agreements. The company expects to continue to meet these covenants and conditions through, at least, February 28, 2021. At December 31, 2019 , the company had outstanding standby letters of credit and surety bonds totaling approximately $258 million related to performance and payment guarantees. On the basis of experience with these arrangements, the company believes that any obligations that may arise will not be material. As described more fully in Note 3, Cost-reduction actions, Note 4, Leases and commitments and Note 14, Debt, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, at December 31, 2019 , the company had certain cash obligations, which are due as follows: (millions) Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 4-5 years After 5 years Long-term debt (including current portion) $ 589.3 $ 13.5 $ 552.1 $ 19.1 $ 4.6 Interest payments on debt 136.1 55.3 78.4 2.0 0.4 Operating leases 169.0 77.2 62.5 23.0 6.3 Work-force reductions 49.8 47.5 2.3 Total $ 944.2 $ 193.5 $ 695.3 $ 44.1 $ 11.3 As described in Note 16, Employee plans, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, in 2020 , the company expects to make cash contributions of approximately $278.9 million to its worldwide defined benefit pension plans, which are comprised of $238.8 million for the companys U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans and $40.1 million primarily for international defined benefit pension plans. Although estimates for future cash contributions are likely to change based on a number of factors including market conditions and changes in discount rates, based on conditions as of December 31, 2019 , the company anticipates that its required contributions for 2020 through 2024 will be approximately $1.2 billion in the aggregate. The company currently anticipates that it may need to obtain additional funding in order to make these contributions. There is no assurance that the company will be able to obtain such funding. On September 27, 2019, the company applied for waivers with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to defer a portion of the required contributions to its two U.S qualified defined benefit pension plans, which if granted would reduce total required cash contributions by approximately $115 million in calendar year 2020. If the company's application is approved by the IRS, the company anticipates that these deferred contributions will be paid over a five-year period. The company filed the application for these waivers under Section 412(c) of the Internal Revenue Code. The IRS considers funding waiver applications based on the facts and circumstances applicable to the request. There is no specified time frame in which the IRS must make a decision. The IRS may choose not to grant the application, or to grant it for an amount less than the amount requested. The company maintains a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission that covers the offer and sale of up to $700.0 million of debt or equity securities. Subject to the companys ongoing compliance with securities laws, the company may offer and sell debt and equity securities from time to time under the shelf registration statement. In addition, from time to time the company has explored, and expects to continue to explore, a variety of debt and equity sources to fund its liquidity and capital needs. The company may, from time to time, redeem, tender for, or repurchase its securities in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions depending upon availability, market conditions and other factors. Critical accounting policies and estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Certain accounting policies, methods and estimates are particularly important because of their significance to the financial statements and because of the possibility that future events affecting them may differ from managements current judgments. The company bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and on other assumptions that it believes are reasonable under the circumstances; however, to the extent there are material differences between these estimates, judgments and assumptions and actual results, the financial statements will be affected. Although there are a number of accounting policies, methods and estimates affecting the companys financial statements as described in Note 1, Summary of significant accounting policies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the following critical accounting policies reflect the significant estimates, judgments and assumptions. The development and selection of these critical accounting policies have been determined by management of the company and the related disclosures have been reviewed with the Audit and Finance Committee of the Board of Directors. 26 Revenue recognition Many of the companys sales agreements contain standard business terms and conditions; however, some agreements contain multiple performance obligations or non-standard terms and conditions. As discussed in Note 1, Summary of significant accounting policies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the company enters into arrangements, which may include any combination of hardware, software or services. As a result, significant contract interpretation is sometimes required to determine the appropriate accounting, including whether the performance obligations specified in an arrangement should be treated as separate performance obligations for revenue recognition purposes, and when to recognize revenue for each performance obligation. The company must apply its judgment to determine the timing of the satisfaction of performance obligations as well as the transaction price and the amounts allocated to performance obligations including estimating variable consideration, adjusting the consideration for the effects of the time value of money and assessing whether an estimate of variable consideration is constrained. Revenue and profit under systems integration contracts are recognized over time as the company transfers control of goods or services. The company measures its progress toward satisfaction of its performance obligations using the cost-to-cost method, or when services have been performed, depending on the nature of the project. For contracts accounted for using the cost-to-cost method, revenue and profit recognized in any given accounting period are based on estimates of total projected contract costs. The estimates are continually reevaluated and revised, when necessary, throughout the life of a contract. The company follows this method because reasonably dependable estimates of the revenue and costs applicable to various elements of a contract can be made. The financial reporting of these contracts depends on estimates, which are assessed continually during the term of the contracts and therefore, recognized revenues and profit are subject to revisions as the contract progresses to completion. Revisions in profit estimates are reflected in the period in which the facts that give rise to the revision become known. Accordingly, favorable changes in estimates result in additional revenue and profit recognition, and unfavorable changes in estimates result in a reduction of recognized revenue and profit. When estimates indicate that a loss will be incurred on a contract upon completion, a provision for the expected loss is recorded in the period in which the loss becomes evident. As work progresses under a loss contract, revenue continues to be recognized, and a portion of the contract costs incurred in each period is charged to the contract loss reserve. Outsourcing Typically, the initial terms of the companys outsourcing contracts are between 3 and 5 years. Revenue under these contracts is recognized when the company performs the services or processes transactions in accordance with contractual performance standards. Customer prepayments (even if nonrefundable) are deferred (classified as a liability) and recognized systematically as revenue over the initial contract term. Costs on outsourcing contracts are charged to expense as incurred. However, direct costs incurred related to the inception of an outsourcing contract (principally initial customer setup) are deferred and charged to expense over the initial contract term. In addition, the costs of equipment and software, some of which are internally developed, are capitalized and depreciated over the shorter of their life or the initial contract term. Recoverability of outsourcing assets is subject to various business risks. Quarterly, the company compares the carrying value of the outsourcing assets with the undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the outsourcing assets to determine if the assets are impaired. If impaired, the outsourcing assets are reduced to an estimated fair value on a discounted cash flow approach. The company prepares its cash flow estimates based on assumptions that it believes to be reasonable but are also inherently uncertain. Actual future cash flows could differ from these estimates. Income Taxes Accounting rules governing income taxes require that deferred tax assets and liabilities be recognized using enacted tax rates for the effect of temporary differences between the book and tax bases of recorded assets and liabilities. These rules also require that deferred tax assets be reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or the entire deferred tax asset will not be realized. At December 31, 2019 and 2018 , the company had deferred tax assets in excess of deferred tax liabilities of $1,617.8 million and $1,636.9 million , respectively. For the reasons cited below, at December 31, 2019 and 2018 , management determined that it is more likely than not that $93.1 million and $89.4 million , respectively, of such assets will be realized, resulting in a valuation allowance of $1,524.7 million and $1,547.5 million , respectively. The company evaluates the realizability of its deferred tax assets by assessing its valuation allowance and by adjusting the amount of such allowance, if necessary. The factors used to assess the likelihood of realization are the companys historical profitability, forecast of future taxable income and available tax-planning strategies that could be implemented to realize the net deferred tax assets. The company uses tax-planning strategies to realize or renew net deferred tax assets to avoid the potential loss of future tax benefits. Failure to achieve forecasted taxable income might affect the ultimate realization of the net deferred tax assets. Factors that may affect the companys ability to achieve sufficient forecasted taxable income include, but are not 27 limited to, the following: increased competition, a decline in sales or margins, loss of market share, delays in product availability or technological obsolescence. See Item 1A. Risk Factors. Internal Revenue Code Sections 382 and 383 provide annual limitations with respect to the ability of a corporation to utilize its net operating loss (as well as certain built-in losses) and tax credit carryforwards, respectively (Tax Attributes), against future U.S. taxable income, if the corporation experiences an ownership change. In general terms, an ownership change may result from transactions increasing the ownership of certain stockholders in the stock of a corporation by more than 50 percentage points over a three-year period. The company regularly monitors ownership changes (as calculated for purposes of Section 382). The company has determined that, for purposes of the rules of Section 382 described above, an ownership change occurred in February 2011. Any future transaction or transactions and the timing of such transaction or transactions could trigger additional ownership changes under Section 382. As a result of the February 2011 ownership change, utilization for certain of the companys Tax Attributes, U.S. net operating losses and tax credits, is subject to an overall annual limitation of $70.6 million . The cumulative limitation as of December 31, 2019 is approximately $470.3 million . This limitation will be applied first to any recognized built in losses, then to any net operating losses, and then to any other Tax Attributes. Any unused limitation may be carried over to later years. Based on presently available information and the existence of tax planning strategies, the company does not expect to incur a U.S. cash tax liability in the near term. The company maintains a full valuation allowance against the realization of all U.S. deferred tax assets as well as certain foreign deferred tax assets in excess of deferred tax liabilities. See Note 6, Income taxes, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The companys provision for income taxes and the determination of the resulting deferred tax assets and liabilities involve a significant amount of management judgment and are based on the best information available at the time. The company operates within federal, state and international taxing jurisdictions and is subject to audit in these jurisdictions. These audits can involve complex issues, which may require an extended period of time to resolve. As a result, the actual income tax liabilities in the jurisdictions with respect to any fiscal year are ultimately determined long after the financial statements have been published. Accounting rules governing income taxes also prescribe a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The company maintains reserves for estimated tax exposures including penalties and interest. Income tax exposures include potential challenges of intercompany pricing and other tax matters. Exposures are settled primarily through the settlement of audits within these tax jurisdictions, but can also be affected by changes in applicable tax law or other factors, which could cause management of the company to believe a revision of past estimates is appropriate. Management believes that an appropriate liability has been established for estimated exposures; however, actual results may differ materially from these estimates. The liabilities are reviewed quarterly for their adequacy and appropriateness. See Note 6, Income taxes, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Pensions Accounting rules governing defined benefit pension plans require that amounts recognized in financial statements be determined on an actuarial basis. The measurement of the companys pension obligations, costs and liabilities is dependent on a variety of assumptions selected by the company and used by the companys actuaries. These assumptions include estimates of the present value of projected future pension payments to plan participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as demographic experience. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: discount rates, retirement rates, inflation, expected return on plan assets and mortality rates. As permitted for purposes of computing pension expense, the company uses a calculated value of plan assets (which is further described below). This allows the effects of the performance of the pension plans assets on the companys computation of pension income or expense to be amortized over future periods. A substantial portion of the companys pension plan assets relates to its qualified defined benefit plans in the United States. A significant element in determining the companys pension income or expense is the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. The company sets the expected long-term rate of return based on the expected long-term return of the various asset categories in which it invests. The company considers the current expectations for future returns and the actual historical returns of each asset class. Also, because the companys investment policy is to actively manage certain asset classes where the potential exists to outperform the broader market, the expected returns for those asset classes are adjusted to reflect the expected additional returns. For 2020 , the company has assumed that the expected long-term rate of return on U.S. plan assets will be 6.50% , and on the companys non-U.S. plan assets will be 3.50% . A change of 25 basis points in the expected long-term rate of return for the companys U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans causes a change of approximately $ 8 million and $7 million , respectively, in 2020 pension expense. The assumed long-term rate of return on assets is applied to a calculated value of plan assets, which recognizes changes in the fair value of plan assets in a systematic manner over four years. This produces the expected return on plan assets that is included in pension income or expense. The difference between this expected return and the actual return on plan assets is deferred. The net deferral of past asset gains or losses affects the calculated value of plan 28 assets and, ultimately, future pension income or expense. At December 31, 2019 , for the companys U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans, the calculated value of plan assets was $3.33 billion and the fair value was $3.28 billion . At the end of each year, the company determines the discount rate to be used to calculate the present value of plan liabilities. The discount rate is an estimate of the current interest rate at which the pension liabilities could be effectively settled at the end of the year. In estimating this rate, the company looks to rates of return on high-quality, fixed-income investments that (a) receive one of the two highest ratings given by a recognized ratings agency and (b) are currently available and expected to be available during the period to maturity of the pension benefits. At December 31, 2019 , the company determined this rate to be 3.53% for its U.S. defined benefit pension plans, a decrease of 97 basis points from the rate used at December 31, 2018 , and 1.82% for the companys non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans, a decrease of 73 basis points from the rate used at December 31, 2018 . A change of 25 basis points in the U.S. and non-U.S. discount rates causes a change in 2020 pension expense of approximately $2 million and $400 thousand , respectively, and a change of approximately $114 million and $123 million , respectively, in the benefit obligation. These estimates are intended to be illustrative based on a single 25 basis point change. The sensitivity to rate changes is not linear and additional changes in rates may result in a different impact on the pension liability. The net effect of changes in the discount rate, as well as the net effect of other changes in actuarial assumptions and experience, has been deferred, as permitted. Funding requirements for its U.S. qualified pension plans are calculated by the plans actuaries based on certain assumptions including, as permitted under the Bi-partisan Budget Act of 2015, a discount rate constrained to be within 10% of the 25-year average of the relevant rates. The effect of this limitation is that the funding discount rate is higher than the GAAP discount rate applied for balance sheet purposes, and the liability is therefore lower. In addition, this constraint mitigates the effect of changes in market interest rates on the funding discount rate and the funding liability. Changes to the benefit obligation caused by a 25 basis point change noted above are related to the balance sheet obligation and are not necessarily indicative of the impact on the funding liability. Gains and losses are defined as changes in the amount of either the projected benefit obligation or plan assets resulting from experience different from that assumed and from changes in assumptions. Because gains and losses may reflect refinements in estimates as well as real changes in economic values and because some gains in one period may be offset by losses in another and vice versa, the accounting rules do not require recognition of gains and losses as components of net pension cost of the period in which they arise. At a minimum, amortization of an unrecognized net gain or loss must be included as a component of net pension cost for a year if, as of the beginning of the year, that unrecognized net gain or loss exceeds 10 percent of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the calculated value of plan assets. If amortization is required, the minimum amortization is that excess above the 10 percent divided by the average remaining life expectancy of the plan participants. For the companys U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans and the companys non-U.S. pension plans, that period is approximately 16 and 24 years, respectively. At December 31, 2019 , the estimated unrecognized loss for the companys U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans and the companys non-U.S. pension plans was $2.59 billion and $0.97 billion , respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2019 , the company recognized consolidated pension expense of $92.7 million , compared with $79.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 . For 2020 , the company expects to recognize pension expense of approximately $90.0 million . See Note 16, Employee plans, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill Accounting rules governing goodwill require a company test goodwill for impairment at least annually, as well as whenever there are events or changes in circumstances (triggering events) which suggest that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. When determining the fair value of a reporting unit, as appropriate for the individual reporting unit, the company uses both an income and market approach. The methodology used to determine the fair values using the income and market approaches, as described below, are weighted to determine the fair value for each reporting unit. The income approach is a forward-looking approach to estimating fair value and relies primarily on internal forecasts. Within the income approach, the method used is the discounted cash flow method. The company starts with a forecast of all expected net cash flows associated with the reporting unit, which includes the application of a terminal value, and then a reporting unit-specific discount rate is applied to arrive at a net present value amount. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions inherent in this approach include the amount and timing of projected net cash flows, long-term growth rate and the discount rate. Cash flow projections are based on managements estimates of economic and market conditions, which drive key assumptions of revenue growth rates, operating margins, capital expenditures and working capital requirements. The discount rate in turn is based on various market factors and specific risk characteristics of each reporting unit. The market approach relies primarily on external information for estimating the fair value. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions inherent in this approach include the selection of appropriate guideline companies and the selected performance metric used in this approach. 29 Estimating the fair value of reporting units requires the use of estimates and significant judgments about key assumptions. There are a number of factors including potential events and changes in circumstances that could change in future periods, including: projected operating results; valuation multiples exhibited by the company and by companies considered comparable to the reporting units; and other macro-economic factors that could impact the discount rate. It is reasonably possible that the judgments and estimates described above could change in future periods. Goodwill by reporting unit at December 31, 2019 , was as follows (dollars in millions): Reporting unit Carrying Value Cloud and infrastructure $ 32.2 Application services 26.0 Business process outsourcing 10.3 Technology 108.7 Total $ 177.2 As a result of the impairment review, the company concluded that none of its goodwill was impaired as of December 31, 2019 , and does not believe that any of its reporting units are at risk of failing the impairment test since all reporting unit fair values were substantially in excess of carrying value as of the last impairment test. 30