ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (For a discussion of 2022 compared with 2021, refer to Part II, Item 7 contained in the companys Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022.) Overview In 2023, the company recorded a net loss attributable to Unisys Corporation of $430.7 million, or $6.31 per diluted share, compared with a loss of $106.0 million, or $1.57 per diluted share, in 2022. Included in the 2023 results were defined benefit pension plan settlement losses of $348.9 million compared with zero in 2022. During 2023, the company purchased two group annuity contracts, with pension plan assets, for approximately $516 million to transfer projected benefit obligations related to approximately 12,550 retirees of the companys U.S. defined benefit pension plans. As a result of these actions, the company recorded pre-tax settlement losses of $348.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. Additionally in 2023, the company recorded cost-reduction charges and other costs of $9.3 million compared with $54.9 million in 2022. Results of operations Company results Revenue for 2023 was $2.02 billion compared with $1.98 billion for 2022, an increase of 1.8%. Foreign currency fluctuations had a negligible impact on revenue in 2023 compared with 2022. Revenue from international operations for both 2023 and 2022 was $1.13 billion. Foreign currency had a negligible impact on international revenue in 2023 compared with 2022. Revenue from U.S. operations was $889.0 million for 2023 compared with $854.9 million for 2022, an increase of 4.0%. During 2023, the company recognized cost-reduction charges and other costs of $9.3 million. The net charges related to workforce reductions were $8.3 million, principally related to severance costs, and were comprised of: (a) a charge of $15.2 million and (b) a credit of $6.9 million for changes in estimates. In addition, the company recorded net charges of $1.0 million comprised of charges of $4.7 million primarily related to professional fees and other expenses related to cost-reduction efforts and a credit of $3.7 million for net foreign currency gains related to exiting foreign countries. See Note 4, Cost-reduction actions, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for details of the cost reduction activities. During 2022, the company recognized cost-reduction charges and other costs of $54.9 million. The net charges related to workforce reductions were $7.5 million, principally related to severance costs, and were comprised of: (a) a charge of $7.1 million and (b) a charge of $0.4 million for changes in estimates. In addition, the company recorded charges of $47.4 million comprised of $35.8 million for asset impairments, $8.7 million for other expenses related to cost-reduction efforts and $2.9 million for net foreign currency losses related to exiting foreign countries. The cost reduction charges (credits) were recorded in the following statement of income (loss) classifications: Year ended December 31, 2023 2022 Cost of revenue Services $ 4.9 $ 19.1 Technology 0.7 7.6 Selling, general and administrative 6.9 24.7 Research and development 0.5 0.6 Other (expenses), net (3.7) 2.9 Total $ 9.3 $ 54.9 Gross profit and gross profit margin were $551.3 million and 27.4% in 2023, respectively, and $529.6 million and 26.7% in 2022, respectively. The increase in gross profit and gross profit margin in 2023 were primarily due lower cost reduction charges in 2023 and gross profit improvement in the Cloud, Applications & Infrastructure Solutions (CA&I) segment, partially offset by lower gross profit in Enterprise Computing Solutions (ECS) segment. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $450.3 million in 2023 (22.3% of revenue) and $453.2 million in 2022 (22.9% of revenue). 28 Research and development (R&D) expenses in 2023 were $24.1 million compared with $24.2 million in 2022. In 2023, the company reported an operating profit of $76.9 million compared with an operating profit of $52.2 million in 2022. The increase in 2023 was primarily driven by higher gross profit as discussed above. Interest expense was $30.8 million in 2023 compared with $32.4 million in 2022. Other (expense), net was expense of $393.9 million in 2023 compared with expense of $82.4 million in 2022. Other (expense), net in 2023 includes $348.9 million of pension settlement losses. See Note 6, Other (expense), net, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for details of other (expense), net. Pension expense in 2023 was $391.3 million compared with $47.1 million in 2022. Pension expense in 2023 included $348.9 million of settlement losses primarily related to the companys U.S. defined benefits plans. See Note 17, Employee plans, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for details of the settlement losses. The loss before income taxes in 2023 was $347.8 million compared with a loss of $62.6 million in 2022. Included in the loss in 2023 were $348.9 million of settlement losses related to the companys defined benefit pension plans. The provision for income taxes in 2023 was $79.3 million compared with a provision of $42.3 million in 2022. The change in the tax provision is described below. The company evaluates quarterly the realizability of its deferred tax assets by assessing its valuation allowance and by adjusting such amount, if necessary. The company records a tax provision or benefit for those international subsidiaries that do not have a full valuation allowance against their deferred tax assets. Any profit or loss recorded for the companys U.S. operations will have no provision or benefit associated with it due to the companys valuation allowance, except with respect to refundable tax credits and withholding taxes not creditable against future taxable income. As a result, the companys provision or benefit for taxes may vary significantly period to period depending on the geographic distribution of income. The realization of the companys net deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2023, is primarily dependent on the ability to generate sustained taxable income in various jurisdictions. Judgment is required to estimate forecasted future taxable income, which may be impacted by future business developments, actual results, strategic operational and tax initiatives, legislative, and other economic factors and developments. Any increase or decrease in the valuation allowance would result in additional or lower income tax expense in that period and could have a significant impact on that periods earnings. During 2023, the company determined that a portion of its non-U.S. net deferred tax assets required an additional valuation allowance. The net change in the valuation allowance impacting the effective tax rate in 2023 was approximately $2.1 million, primarily in Latin America. During 2022, the company determined that a portion of its non-U.S. net deferred tax assets no longer required a valuation allowance. The net change in the valuation allowances impacting the effective tax rate in 2022 was approximately $9.8 million of a tax benefit, primarily in the United Kingdom and other foreign jurisdictions. In 2021, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development introduced a framework to implement a global minimum corporate tax of 15%, referred to as Pillar Two, effective January 1, 2024, and onward. While it is uncertain whether the U.S. will enact legislation to adopt Pillar Two, certain countries in which the company operates have adopted legislation, and other countries are in the process of introducing legislation to implement this minimum tax directive. Pillar Two is not expected to have a material effect on the companys global effective tax rate and its consolidated financial statements. Net loss attributable to Unisys Corporation for 2023 was $430.7 million, or $6.31 per diluted share, compared with a net loss of $106.0 million, or $1.57 per diluted share in 2022. Included in the loss in 2023 was $348.9 million of after-tax settlement losses related to the companys defined benefit pension plans. Segment results The companys reportable segments are as follows: Digital Workplace Solutions (DWS), which provides modern and traditional workplace solutions; Cloud, Applications & Infrastructure Solutions (CA&I), which provides digital platform, applications and infrastructure solutions; and Enterprise Computing Solutions (ECS), which provides solutions that harness secure, continuous high-intensity computing and enable digital services through software-defined operating environments. The accounting policies of each segment are the same as those followed by the company as a whole. The company evaluates segment performance based on gross profit exclusive of the service costs component of postretirement income or expense, restructuring charges, amortization of purchased intangibles and unusual and nonrecurring items, which are included in other gross profit. 29 Corporate assets are principally cash and cash equivalents, prepaid postretirement assets and deferred income taxes. The expense or income related to corporate assets and centrally incurred costs are allocated to the business segments. See Note 20, Segment information, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Information by reportable segment is presented below: (millions) Total Segments DWS CA&I ECS 2023 Revenue $ 1,725.1 $ 546.1 $ 531.0 $ 648.0 Gross profit percent 32.2 % 14.0 % 15.4 % 61.2 % 2022 Revenue $ 1,699.9 $ 509.9 $ 520.3 $ 669.7 Gross profit percent 32.4 % 14.0 % 9.1 % 64.5 % DWS revenue was $546.1 million in 2023 and $509.9 million in 2022. The increase in revenue in 2023 was primarily driven by new business with existing clients. Foreign currency fluctuations had a negligible impact on DWS revenue in 2023 compared with 2022. Gross profit percent was 14.0% in both 2023 and 2022. CA&I revenue was $531.0 million in 2023 and $520.3 million in 2022. Foreign currency fluctuations had a negligible impact on CA&I revenue in 2023 compared with 2022. Gross profit percent was 15.4% in 2023 and 9.1% in 2022. The increase in revenue and gross profit percent in 2023 compared with 2022 was primarily due to certain prior year contract exits and new business with existing clients. ECS revenue was $648.0 million in 2023 and $669.7 million in 2022. Foreign currency fluctuations had a negligible impact on ECS revenue in 2023 compared with 2022. Gross profit percent was 61.2% in 2023 and 64.5% in 2022. The decrease in revenue and gross profit percent was driven by the timing of software license renewals. New accounting pronouncements See Note 2, Recent accounting pronouncements and accounting changes, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on the companys consolidated financial statements. Financial condition The companys principal sources of liquidity are cash on hand, cash from operations and its revolving credit facility, discussed below. The company and certain international subsidiaries have access to uncommitted lines of credit from various banks. The company believes that it will have adequate sources of liquidity to meet its expected cash requirements through at least the next twelve months. Cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2023 were $387.7 million compared with $391.8 million at December 31, 2022. As of December 31, 2023, $232.2 million of cash and cash equivalents were held by the companys foreign subsidiaries and branches operating outside of the U.S. The company may not be able to readily transfer approximately one-third of these funds out of the country in which they are located as a result of local restrictions, contractual or other legal arrangements or commercial considerations. Additionally, any transfers of these funds to the U.S. in the future may require the company to accrue or pay withholding or other taxes on a portion of the amount transferred. See Note 7, Income taxes, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements regarding the companys intention to indefinitely reinvest earnings of foreign subsidiaries. During 2023, cash provided by operating activities was $74.2 million compared with cash provided by operations of $12.7 million during 2022. The increase in operating cash in 2023 was primarily due to improvements in working capital. Cash used for investing activities during 2023 was $69.6 million compared with cash used for investing activities of $131.4 million during 2022. Net proceeds from investments were $11.2 million in 2023 compared with net purchases of $44.3 million in 2022. Proceeds from investments and purchases of investments represent derivative financial instruments used to manage the companys currency exposure to market risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. In addition, capital additions of properties were $21.3 million in 2023 compared with $31.0 million in 2022, capital additions of outsourcing assets were $11.4 million in 2023 compared with $8.6 million in 2022 and the investment in marketable software was $46.0 million in 2023 compared with $46.3 million in 2022. 30 Cash used for financing activities during 2023 was $17.3 million compared with cash used for financing activities of $21.6 million during 2022. In March 2023, the company purchased a group annuity contract, with plan assets, for approximately $263 million to transfer projected benefit obligations related to approximately 8,650 retirees of one of the companys U.S. defined benefit pension plans. This action resulted in a pre-tax settlement loss of $181.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. In November 2023, the company purchased a group annuity contract, with plan assets, for approximately $253 million to transfer projected benefit obligations related to approximately 3,900 retirees of one of the companys U.S. defined benefit pension plans. This action resulted in a pre-tax settlement loss of $167.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. After considering these most recent group annuity contract purchases, the company has successfully reduced its global defined benefit pension obligations since December 2020 by approximately $2.0 billion, including approximately $1.3 billion in the U.S. The company will continue to evaluate opportunities for additional reduction of its global defined benefit pension obligations in future periods depending on overall market conditions. Due to the companys significant postretirement plans accumulated other comprehensive losses, future group annuity contract purchases could result in material non-cash settlement losses. At the end of each year, the company estimates its future cash contributions to its U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans based on year-end pension data and assumptions. In 2023, we made cash contributions of $42.4 million, primarily for our international defined benefit pension plans. Based on current legislation, global regulations, recent interest rates and expected returns, the company estimates future cash contributions of approximately $21 million in 2024, primarily for our international defined benefit pension plans. The company estimates that cash contributions to its U.S. defined benefit pension plans will begin to increase in 2025, increasing the total estimated contributions for the companys U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans to approximately $110 million in 2025 and approximately $770 million in the aggregate from 2026 through 2033. If the company is not able to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, we may need to obtain additional funding in order to make these contributions. Any material deterioration in the value of the companys U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan assets, as well as changes in pension legislation, volatility in the capital markets, discount rate changes, asset return changes, or changes in economic or demographic trends, could require the company to make cash contributions to its U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans in different amounts and on a different schedule than previously contemplated. At December 31, 2023, total debt was $504.2 million compared with $513.1 million at December 31, 2022. See Note 15, Debt,of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more detailed discussion of the companys debt financing agreements including maturities by fiscal year. The company has commitments under operating leases for certain facilities and equipment used in its operations. As of December 31, 2023, the companys operating lease liabilities were $44.7 million. The company also has a number of finance leases for equipment, with lease liabilities totaling $0.3 million as of December 31, 2023. See Note 5, Leases and commitments, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information pertaining to future minimum lease payments relating to the companys operating and finance lease obligations. Additionally, as described in Note 4, Cost-reduction actions, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the company expects to make payments of approximately $9.4 million in 2024 related to the companys workforce reduction actions. In March 2021, the company completed the conversion of $84.2 million aggregate principal amount of Convertible Senior Notes due 2021 (the 2021 Notes) that remained outstanding for a combination of cash and shares of the companys common stock. As a result of the conversion of the outstanding 2021 Notes, the company delivered to the holders (i) aggregate cash payments totaling approximately $86.5 million, which included an aggregate cash payment for outstanding principal of approximately $84.2 million, an aggregate cash payment for accrued interest of approximately $2.3 million and a nominal cash payment in lieu of fractional shares, and (ii) the issuance of 4,537,123 shares of the companys common stock. The issuance of the common stock was made in exchange for the 2021 Notes pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements provided by Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The company has a secured revolving credit facility (the Amended and Restated ABL Credit Facility), which matures on October 29, 2025, and provides for revolving loans and letters of credit up to an aggregate amount of $145.0 million (with a limit on letters of credit of $40.0 million), with an accordion feature provision allowing for the aggregate amount available under the credit facility to be increased up to $175.0 million upon the satisfaction of certain specified conditions. The Amended and Restated ABL Credit Facility was amended on June 2, 2023, primarily to replace the reference rate from the London Interbank Offered Rate to the Secured Overnight Financing Rate. Availability under the credit facility is subject to a borrowing base calculated by reference to the companys receivables. At December 31, 2023, the company had no borrowings and $7.1 million of letters of credit outstanding, and availability under the facility was $88.6 million net of letters of credit issued. Any borrowings under the facility will be subject to variable interest rates. 31 The Amended and Restated ABL Credit Facility is subject to a springing maturity, under which the Amended and Restated ABL Credit Facility will immediately mature 91 days prior to any date on which contributions to pension funds in the United States in an amount in excess of $100.0 million are required to be paid unless the company is able to meet certain conditions, including that the company has the liquidity (as defined in the Amended and Restated ABL Credit Facility) to cash settle the amount of such pension payments, no default or event of default has occurred under the Amended and Restated ABL Credit Facility, the companys liquidity is above $130.0 million and the company is in compliance with the then applicable fixed charge coverage ratio on a pro forma basis. The Amended and Restated ABL Credit Facility is guaranteed by Unisys Holding Corporation, Unisys NPL, Inc. and Unisys AP Investment Company I, each of which is a U.S. corporation that is directly or indirectly owned by the company (the subsidiary guarantors). The facility is secured by the assets of the company and the subsidiary guarantors, other than certain excluded assets, under a security agreement entered into by the company and the subsidiary guarantors in favor of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as agent for the lenders under the credit facility. The company is required to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio if the availability under the Amended and Restated ABL Credit Facility falls below the greater of 10% of the lenders commitments under the facility and $14.5 million. The Amended and Restated ABL Credit Facility contains customary representations and warranties, including, but not limited to, that there has been no material adverse change in the companys business, properties, operations or financial condition. The Amended and Restated ABL Credit Facility includes restrictions on the ability of the company and its subsidiaries to, among other things, incur other debt or liens, dispose of assets and make acquisitions, loans and investments, repurchase its equity, and prepay other debt. These restrictions are subject to several important limitations and exceptions. Events of default include non-payment, failure to comply with covenants, materially incorrect representations and warranties, change of control and default under other debt aggregating at least $50.0 million, subject to relevant cure periods, as applicable. At December 31, 2023, the company had met all covenants and conditions under its various lending and funding agreements. The company expects to continue to meet these covenants and conditions through at least the next twelve months. At December 31, 2023, the company had outstanding standby letters of credit and surety bonds totaling approximately $232 million related to performance and payment guarantees. On the basis of experience with these arrangements, the company believes that any obligations that may arise will not be material. From time to time the company may explore a variety of additional debt and equity sources to fund its liquidity and capital needs. The company may, from time to time, redeem, tender for, or repurchase its securities in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions depending upon availability, market conditions and other factors. The company does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that are material or reasonably likely to become material to its financial condition or results of operations. Critical accounting policies and estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Certain accounting policies, methods and estimates are particularly important because of their significance to the financial statements and because of the possibility that future events affecting them may differ from managements current judgments. The company bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and on other assumptions that it believes are reasonable under the circumstances; however, to the extent there are material differences between these estimates, judgments and assumptions and actual results, the financial statements will be affected. Although there are a number of accounting policies, methods and estimates affecting the companys financial statements as described in Note 1, Summary of significant accounting policies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the following critical accounting policies reflect the significant estimates, judgments and assumptions. The development and selection of these critical accounting policies have been determined by management of the company and the related disclosures have been reviewed with the Audit and Finance Committee of the Board of Directors. Revenue recognition Many of the companys sales agreements contain standard business terms and conditions; however, some agreements contain multiple performance obligations or non-standard terms and conditions. As discussed in Note 1, Summary of significant accounting policies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the company enters into arrangements that may include any combination of hardware, software or services. As a result, significant contract interpretation is sometimes required to determine the appropriate accounting, including how many performance obligations are present in an arrangement, whether 32 they should be treated as separate performance obligations and when to recognize revenue and under what method for each performance obligation. Income Taxes Accounting rules governing income taxes require that deferred tax assets and liabilities be recognized using enacted tax rates for the effect of temporary differences between the book and tax bases of recorded assets and liabilities. These rules also require that deferred tax assets be reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or the entire deferred tax asset will not be realized. At December 31, 2023 and 2022, the company had deferred tax assets in excess of deferred tax liabilities of $1,263.2 million and $1,218.9 million, respectively. For the reasons cited below, at December 31, 2023 and 2022, management determined that it is more likely than not that $113.1 million and $108.4 million, respectively, of such assets will be realized, resulting in a valuation allowance of $1,150.1 million and $1,110.5 million, respectively. The company evaluates the realizability of its deferred tax assets by assessing its valuation allowance and by adjusting such amount, if necessary. The realization of the companys deferred tax assets is primarily dependent on the ability to generate sustained taxable income in various jurisdictions. Judgment is required to estimate forecasted future taxable income, which may be impacted by future business developments, actual results, strategic operational and tax initiatives, legislative, and other economic factors and developments. See Risk Factors (Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K). The company records a tax provision or benefit for those international subsidiaries that do not have a full valuation allowance against their deferred tax assets. Any profit or loss recorded for the companys U.S. operations will have no provision or benefit associated with it due to the companys valuation allowance, except with respect to refundable tax credits and withholding taxes not creditable against future taxable income. As a result, the companys provision or benefit for taxes may vary significantly from period to period depending on the geographic distribution of income. Internal Revenue Code Sections 382 and 383 provide annual limitations with respect to the ability of a corporation to utilize its net operating loss (as well as certain built-in losses) and tax credit carryforwards, respectively (Tax Attributes), against future U.S. taxable income, if the corporation experiences an ownership change. In general terms, an ownership change may result from transactions increasing the ownership of certain stockholders in the stock of a corporation by more than 50 percentage points over a three-year period. The company regularly monitors ownership changes (as calculated for purposes of Section 382). The company has determined that, for purposes of the rules of Section 382 described above, an ownership change occurred in 2011. Any future transaction or transactions and the timing of such transaction or transactions could trigger additional ownership changes under Section 382. As a result of the ownership change in 2011, utilization for certain of the companys Tax Attributes, U.S. net operating losses and tax credits, is subject to an overall annual limitation of $70.6 million. The cumulative limitation as of December 31, 2023 is approximately $488 million. This limitation will be applied to any net operating losses and then to any other Tax Attributes. Any unused limitation may be carried over to later years. Based on presently available information and the existence of tax planning strategies, the company does not expect to incur a U.S. federal cash tax liability in the near term. The company maintains a full valuation allowance against the realization of all U.S. deferred tax assets as well as certain foreign deferred tax assets in excess of deferred tax liabilities. See Note 7, Income taxes, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The companys provision for income taxes and the determination of the resulting deferred tax assets and liabilities involve a significant amount of management judgment and are based on the best information available at the time. The company operates within federal, state and international taxing jurisdictions and is subject to audit in these jurisdictions. These audits can involve complex issues, which may require an extended period of time to resolve. As a result, the actual income tax liabilities in the jurisdictions with respect to any fiscal year are ultimately determined long after the financial statements have been published. Pensions Accounting rules governing defined benefit pension plans require that amounts recognized in financial statements be determined on an actuarial basis. The measurement of the companys pension obligations, costs and liabilities is dependent on a variety of assumptions selected by the company and used by the companys actuaries. These assumptions include estimates of the present value of projected future pension payments to plan participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as demographic experience. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: discount rates, retirement rates, inflation, expected return on plan assets and mortality rates. As permitted for purposes of computing pension expense, the company uses a calculated value of plan assets (which is further described below). This allows the effects of the performance of the pension plans assets on the companys computation of pension income or expense to be amortized over future periods. A substantial portion of the companys pension plan assets relates to its qualified defined benefit plans in the United States. 33 Funding requirements for its U.S. qualified pension plans are calculated by the plans actuaries based on certain assumptions as permitted under current regulations. Changes to the benefit obligation caused by a 25 basis point change noted below are related to the balance sheet obligation and are not necessarily indicative of the impact on the funding liability. At the end of each year, the company determines the discount rate to be used to calculate the present value of plan liabilities. Inherent in deriving the discount rate are significant assumptions with respect to the timing and magnitude of expected benefit payment obligations. The discount rate is an estimate of the current interest rate at which the pension liabilities could be effectively settled at the end of the year. In estimating this rate, the company looks to rates of return on high-quality, fixed-income investments that (a) receive one of the two highest ratings given by a recognized ratings agency and (b) are currently available and expected to be available during the period to maturity of the pension benefits. At December 31, 2023, the company determined this rate to be 5.70% for its U.S. defined benefit pension plans, a decrease of 34 basis points from the rate used at December 31, 2022, and 4.24% for the companys non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans, a decrease of 56 basis points from the rate used at December 31, 2022. A change of 25 basis points in the U.S. and non-U.S. discount rates causes a change in 2024 pension expense of approximately $500 thousand and $800 thousand, respectively, and a change of approximately $42 million and $48 million, respectively, in the benefit obligation. These estimates are intended to be illustrative based on a single 25 basis point change. The sensitivity to rate changes is not linear and additional changes in rates may result in a different impact on the pension liability. The net effect of changes in the discount rate, as well as the net effect of other changes in actuarial assumptions and experience, has been deferred, as permitted. A significant element in determining the companys pension income or expense is the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. The company sets the expected long-term rate of return based on the expected long-term return of the various asset categories in which it invests. The company considers the current expectations for future returns and the actual historical returns of each asset class. Also, because the companys investment policy is to actively manage certain asset classes where the potential exists to outperform the broader market, the expected returns for those asset classes are adjusted to reflect the expected additional returns. For 2024, the company has assumed that the expected long-term rate of return on U.S. plan assets will be 7.00%, and on the companys non-U.S. plan assets will be 4.82%. A change of 25 basis points in the expected long-term rate of return for the companys U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans causes a change of approximately $5 million and $4 million, respectively, in 2024 pension expense. The assumed long-term rate of return on assets is applied to a calculated value of plan assets, which recognizes changes in the fair value of plan assets in a systematic manner over four years. This produces the expected return on plan assets that is included in pension income or expense. The difference between this expected return and the actual return on plan assets is deferred. The net deferral of past asset gains or losses affects the calculated value of plan assets and, ultimately, future pension income or expense. At December 31, 2023, for the companys U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans, the calculated value of plan assets was $2.08 billion and the fair value was $1.82 billion. Gains and losses are defined as changes in the amount of either the projected benefit obligation or plan assets resulting from experience different from that assumed and from changes in assumptions. Because gains and losses may reflect refinements in estimates as well as real changes in economic values and because some gains in one period may be offset by losses in another and vice versa, the accounting rules do not require recognition of gains and losses as components of net pension expense of the period in which they arise. At a minimum, amortization of an unrecognized net gain or loss must be included as a component of net pension expense for a year if, as of the beginning of the year, that unrecognized net gain or loss exceeds 10 percent of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the calculated value of plan assets. If amortization is required, the minimum amortization is that excess above the 10 percent divided by the average remaining life expectancy of the plan participants. For the companys U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans and the companys non-U.S. pension plans, that period is approximately 14 and 21 years, respectively. At December 31, 2023, the estimated unrecognized loss for the companys U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans and the companys non-U.S. pension plans was $1.02 billion and $400 million, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2023, the company recognized consolidated pension expense of $391.3 million (which includes $348.9 million of settlement losses) compared with $47.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. For 2024, the company expects to recognize pension expense of approximately $57.7 million. See Note 17, Employee plans, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill The company reviews goodwill for impairment annually in the fourth quarter using data as of September 30 of that year, as well as whenever there are events or changes in circumstances (triggering events), which indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The company initially assesses qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. This qualitative assessment considers all relevant factors specific to the reporting units, including macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, overall financial performance, changes in share price and relevant entity-specific events. 34 If, after completing the qualitative assessment, the company determines it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then the company proceeds to perform a subsequent quantitative goodwill impairment test. Alternatively, the company may elect to bypass the qualitative assessment and perform the quantitative impairment test. The quantitative goodwill impairment test compares each reporting units fair value to its carrying value. If the reporting units fair value exceeds its carrying value, no further procedures are required. However, if a reporting units fair value is less than its carrying value, then an impairment charge is recorded in the amount of the excess. When the company performs the quantitative goodwill impairment test for a reporting unit, it estimates the fair value of the reporting unit using both the income approach and the market approach. The methodology used to determine the fair values using the income and market approaches, as described below, are weighted to determine the fair value for each reporting unit. The income approach is a forward-looking approach to estimating fair value and relies primarily on internal forecasts. Within the income approach, the method used is the discounted cash flow method. The company starts with a forecast of all expected net cash flows associated with the reporting unit, which includes the application of a terminal value, and then a reporting unit-specific discount rate is applied to arrive at a net present value amount. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions inherent in this approach include the amount and timing of projected net cash flows, long-term growth rate and the discount rate. Cash flow projections are based on managements estimates of economic and market conditions, which drive key assumptions of revenue growth rates and operating margins. The discount rate, in turn, is based on various market factors and specific risk characteristics of each reporting unit. The market approach relies primarily on external information for estimating the fair value. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions inherent in this approach include the selection of appropriate guideline companies and the selected performance metric used in this approach. Estimating the fair value of reporting units requires the use of estimates and significant judgments about key assumptions. There are a number of factors, including potential events and changes in circumstances that could change in future periods, including: projected operating results; valuation multiples exhibited by the company and by companies considered comparable to the reporting units; and other macro-economic factors that could impact the discount rate. It is reasonably possible that the judgments and estimates described above could change in future periods, which could have a significant impact on the fair value of the related reporting units. During the fourth quarter of 2023, the company performed a quantitative goodwill impairment test for each reporting unit. The quantitative assessment indicated that each reporting units fair value exceeded its carrying value, as such no impairment charge was recognized as of December 31, 2023. We estimated the fair value of the reporting units using a combination of discounted cash flows and market-based valuation methodologies as noted above. These methodologies involve significant assumptions that are subject to variability. Based on the annual impairment analysis performed during the fourth quarter of 2023, all reporting units had a fair value in excess of book value. The reporting units that were closest to impairment were the CA&I and DWS reporting units with fair value in excess of book value, including goodwill, of 10% and 16%, respectively. All other reporting units had a fair value substantially in excess of book value. The company continuously monitors and evaluates relevant events and circumstances that could unfavorably impact the significant assumptions noted above, including changes to U.S. treasury rates and equity risk premiums, tax rates, recent market valuations from transactions by comparable companies, volatility in the companys market capitalization, and general industry, market and macro-economic conditions. It is possible that future changes in such circumstances or in the inputs and assumptions used in estimating the fair value of the reporting units, could require the company to record a non-cash impairment charge. Goodwill by reporting unit at December 31, 2023, was as follows: Reporting unit Carrying Amount DWS $ 140.8 CA&I 38.0 ECS 98.3 Other 10.3 Total $ 287.4 35