Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Unisys 2015 Annual Report to Stockholders which is incorporated herein by reference. Backlog In the Services segment, firm order backlog at December 31, 2015 was $4.3 billion, compared to $4.8 billion at December 31, 2014. Approximately $1.8 billion (42%) of 2015 backlog is expected to be filled in 2016. Although we believe that this backlog is firm, we may, for commercial reasons, allow the orders to be cancelled, with or without penalty. In addition, funded government contracts included in this backlog are generally subject to termination, in whole or part, at the convenience of the government or if funding becomes unavailable. In such cases, we are generally entitled to receive payment for work completed plus allowable termination or cancellation costs. Because of the relatively short cycle between order and shipment in our Technology segment, we believe that backlog information for this segment is not material to the understanding of our business. Competition Our business is affected by rapid change in technology in the information services and technology industries and aggressive competition from many domestic and foreign companies. Principal competitors 2 are systems integrators, consulting and other professional services firms, outsourcing providers, infrastructure services providers, computer hardware manufacturers and software providers. We compete primarily on the basis of service, product performance, technological innovation, and price. We believe that our continued focused investment in engineering and research and development, coupled with our sales and marketing capabilities, will have a favorable impact on our competitive position. For more information on the competitive risks we face, see Factors that may affect future results in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Unisys 2015 Annual Report to Stockholders which is incorporated herein by reference. Research and Development Unisys-sponsored research and development costs were $76.4 million in 2015, $68.8 million in 2014, and $69.5 million in 2013. Environmental Matters Our capital expenditures, earnings and competitive position have not been materially affected by compliance with federal, state and local laws regulating the protection of the environment. Capital expenditures for environmental control facilities are not expected to be material in 2016 and 2017. Employees At December 31, 2015, we employed approximately 23,000 employees serving clients around the world. International and Domestic Operations Financial information by geographic area is set forth in Note 15, Segment information, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in the Unisys 2015 Annual Report to Stockholders, and such information is incorporated herein by reference. For more information on the risks of doing business internationally, see Factors that may affect future results in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Unisys 2015 Annual Report to Stockholders which is incorporated herein by reference. Available Information Our Investor web site is located at www.unisys.com/investor. Through our web site, we make available, free of charge, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after this material is electronically filed with or furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). We also make available on our web site our Guidelines on Significant Corporate Governance Issues, the charters of the Audit and Finance Committee, Compensation Committee, and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of our board of directors, and our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct. This information is also available in print to stockholders upon request. We do not intend for information on our web site to be part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 3 EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Information concerning the executive officers of Unisys as of February 15, 2016 is set forth below. Name Age Position with Unisys Peter A. Altabef 56 President and Chief Executive Officer Tarek El-Sadany 52 Senior Vice President, Technology, and Chief Technology Officer Janet Brutschea Haugen 57 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Eric Hutto 51 Senior Vice President and President, Enterprise Solutions Neil Gissler 50 Senior Vice President, Services and Delivery Gerald P. Kenney 64 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary David A. Loeser 61 Senior Vice President, Worldwide Human Resources Venkatapathi R. Puvvada 55 Senior Vice President; President, Federal Systems Jeffrey E. Renzi 55 Senior Vice President and President, Global Sales Scott A. Battersby 57 Vice President and Treasurer Michael M. Thomson 47 Vice President and Corporate Controller There is no family relationship among any of the above-named executive officers. The By-Laws provide that the officers of Unisys shall be elected annually by the Board of Directors and that each officer shall hold office for a term of one year and until a successor is elected and qualified, or until the officers earlier resignation or removal. Mr. Altabef has been President and Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors since January 2015. Prior to joining Unisys, Mr. Altabef was the President and Chief Executive Officer, and a member of the board of directors, of MICROS Systems, Inc. from 2013 through September 2014, when MICROS Systems, Inc. was acquired by Oracle Corporation. He previously served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Perot Systems Corporation from 2004 until 2009, when Perot Systems was acquired by Dell, Inc. Thereafter, Mr. Altabef served as President of Dell Services (a unit of Dell Inc.) until his departure in 2011. Mr. Altabef also serves on the Board of Advisors of Merit Energy Company, LLC, and the Advisory Board of Petrus Trust Company, L.T.A. He previously served as Senior Advisor to 2M Companies, Inc. in 2012, and served as a director of Belo Corporation from 2011 through 2013. Mr. Altabef has been an officer since January 2015. Mr. El-Sadany has been Senior Vice President, Technology, and Chief Information Officer since June 2015. Prior to joining Unisys, Mr. El-Sadany was Chief Operating Officer of Remedy Informatics, a provider of healthcare and life sciences predictive informatics solutions (2012-2014). Prior to Remedy, he served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Egypt National Post and Chief Executive Officer of the Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Center of Egypt (2008-2012). Other positions held by Mr. El-Sadany include Senior Vice President of Development and Head of Operations at Iris Financial Solutions (2006-2008), Vice President of Global Product Support Services at Oracle Corporation (2003-2005), and Founder, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Technology Officer of DatAcme Corporation (2001-2003). Mr. El-Sadany has been an officer since June 2015. 4 Ms. Haugen has been Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since 2000. Prior to that time, she served as Vice President and Controller and Acting Chief Financial Officer (1999-2000) and Vice President and Controller (1996-1999). Ms. Haugen has been an officer since 1996. Mr. Hutto has been Senior Vice President and President, Enterprise Solutions since September 2015, after joining Unisys in April 2015 as Vice President and General Manager, U.S. and Canada, Enterprise Solutions. Prior to joining Unisys, Mr. Hutto held senior leadership positions with Dell Services (a unit of Dell Inc.) (2006-2015), serving most recently as Global Vice President/General Manager, Infrastructure, Cloud and Consulting and Vice President/General Manager, Americas. Mr. Hutto has been an officer since September 2015. Mr. Gissler has been Senior Vice President, Services since April 2015. Prior to joining Unisys, Mr. Gissler was with Accenture since 1987, serving most recently as the Global Technology Consulting lead (2013-2014) and as Managing Director, Technology Growth Platform, North America (2009-2012). Mr. Gissler has been an officer since April 2015. Mr. Gissler will be leaving Unisys effective March 31, 2016. Mr. Kenney has been Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since 2013. Prior to joining Unisys, he had been with NEC Corporation of America, the North American subsidiary of global technology company NEC Corporation, since 1999, serving most recently as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary (2004-2013). Mr. Kenney has been an officer since 2013. Mr. Loeser has been Senior Vice President, Worldwide Human Resources since 2013. Prior to joining Unisys, Mr. Loeser was Executive Vice President, Human Resources for Mitel, a global provider of business communications and collaboration software and services (2012-2013). Before Mitel, he held strategic management and human resources executive positions with several multinational companies including Hostess Foods, Celanese, Quaker State, PepsiCo, Continental Airlines, Chevron, and CompuCom. Mr. Loeser has been an officer since 2013. Mr. Puvvada has been Senior Vice President and President, Federal Systems since February 2015. Mr. Puvvada had been serving as acting President of Federal Systems since 2014. Prior to that time, he served as group Vice President for Unisys federal civilian agency business since 2010. From 2005 to 2010, he was Managing Partner and Chief Technology Officer for Unisys Federal Systems. Previously, Mr. Puvvada held various management positions since joining Unisys in 1992. Mr. Puvvada has been an officer since February 2015. Mr. Renzi has been Senior Vice President and President, Global Sales since 2014. Prior to joining Unisys, Mr. Renzi was Senior Vice President, Sales & Marketing, at Arise Virtual Solutions (2012-2013). From 2009 to 2012, Mr. Renzi held key sales and service management roles at Dell Corporation. From 2003 to 2009, Mr. Renzi served as Executive Vice President, Global Sales and Marketing, Alliances & Procurement, at Perot Systems. Prior to Perot Systems, he held a variety of sales leadership and individual sales contributor roles at Electronic Data Systems from 1989 to 2003. Mr. Renzi has been an officer since 2014. Mr. Battersby has been Vice President and Treasurer since 2000. Prior to that time, he served as Vice President of Corporate Strategy and Development (1998-2000) and Vice President and Assistant Treasurer (1996-1998). Mr. Battersby has been an officer since 2000. Mr. Thomson was elected Vice President and Corporate Controller in December 2015 after starting with Unisys in November 2015. Prior to joining Unisys, Mr. Thomson served as Controller of Towers Watson from 2010 until October 2015, and he previously held the same position at Towers Perrin from December 2007 until the consummation of the 2010 merger between Watson Wyatt and Towers Perrin. He also served as principal accounting officer of Towers Watson from 2012 until October 2015. Prior to that, Mr. Thomson worked for Towers Perrin as Director of Financial Systems from 2001 to 2004 and then 5 Assistant Controller from 2004 to 2007. Prior to joining Towers Perrin, Mr. Thomson was with RCN Corporation, where he served as Director of Financial Reporting & Financial Systems from 1997 to 2001. Mr. Thomson has been an officer since December 2015. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Discussion of risk factors is set forth under the heading Factors that may affect future results in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Unisys 2015 Annual Report to Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference. CAUTIONARY STATEMENT PURSUANT TO THE U.S. PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 Risks and uncertainties that could cause our future results to differ materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements include: our ability to effectively anticipate and respond to volatility and rapid technological innovation in our industry; our ability to improve margins in our services business; our ability to sell new products while maintaining our installed base in our technology business; our ability to access financing markets to refinance our outstanding debt; our ability to realize anticipated cost savings and to successfully implement our cost reduction initiatives to drive efficiencies across all of our operations; our significant pension obligations and requirements to make significant cash contributions to our defined benefit pension plans; our ability to attract, motivate and retain experienced and knowledgeable personnel in key positions; the risks of doing business internationally when a significant portion of our revenue is derived from international operations; the potential adverse effects of aggressive competition in the information services and technology marketplace; our ability to retain significant clients; our contracts may not be as profitable as expected or provide the expected level of revenues; cybersecurity breaches could result in significant costs and could harm our business and reputation; a significant disruption in our IT systems could adversely affect our business and reputation; we may face damage to our reputation or legal liability if our clients are not satisfied with our services or products; the performance and capabilities of third parties with whom we have commercial relationships; the adverse effects of global economic conditions, acts of war, terrorism or natural disasters; 6 contracts with U.S. governmental agencies may subject us to audits, criminal penalties, sanctions and other expenses and fines; the potential for intellectual property infringement claims to be asserted against us or our clients; the possibility that pending litigation could affect our results of operations or cash flow; and the business and financial risk in implementing future dispositions or acquisitions. Other factors discussed in this report, although not listed here, also could materially affect our future results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES As of December 31, 2015, we had nine major facilities in the United States with an aggregate floor space of approximately 1.4 million square feet, located primarily in Minnesota, Pennsylvania, Virginia, Utah, California and Texas. We owned one of these facilities, with aggregate floor space of approximately 0.3 million square feet; eight of these facilities, with approximately 1.1 million square feet of floor space, were leased to us. Approximately 1.1 million square feet of the U.S. facilities were in current operation and approximately 0.3 million square feet were subleased to others. As of December 31, 2015, we had ten major facilities outside the United States with an aggregate floor space of approximately 1.1 million square feet, located primarily in the United Kingdom, India, Australia, Brazil, Hungary and New Zealand. We owned one of these facilities, with approximately 0.2 million square feet of floor space; nine of these facilities, with approximately 0.9 million square feet of floor space, were leased to us. Approximately 0.8 million square feet of the facilities outside the United States were in current operation and approximately 0.3 million square feet were subleased to others. Our major facilities include offices, data centers, call centers, engineering centers and sales centers. We believe that our facilities are suitable and adequate for current and presently projected needs. We continuously review our anticipated requirements for facilities and will from time to time acquire additional facilities, expand existing facilities, and dispose of existing facilities or parts thereof, as necessary. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Information with respect to litigation is set forth in Note 14, Litigation and contingencies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in the Unisys 2015 Annual Report to Stockholders, and such information is incorporated herein by reference. 7 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 8 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Unisys Common Stock (trading symbol UIS) is listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange and London Stock Exchange. Information on the high and low sales prices for Unisys Common Stock is set forth under the heading Quarterly financial information in the Unisys 2015 Annual Report to Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference. At December 31, 2015, there were approximately 49.9 million shares outstanding and approximately 6,200 stockholders of record. Unisys has not declared or paid any cash dividends on its Common Stock since 1990, and we do not anticipate declaring or paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA A summary of selected financial data is set forth under the heading Five-year summary of selected financial data in the Unisys 2015 Annual Report to Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is set forth under the heading Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Unisys 2015 Annual Report to Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference.