Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Please read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included under Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements are statements that attempt to forecast or anticipate future developments in our business, financial condition or results of operations. When reviewing the discussion below, you should keep in mind the substantial risks and uncertainties that could impact our business. In particular, we encourage you to review the risks and uncertainties described in "Part IIOther Information, Item 1A. Risk Factors" included elsewhere in this report. These risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements contained in this report or implied by past results and trends. Forward-looking statements, like all statements in this report, speak only as of their date (unless another date is indicated), and we undertake no obligation to update or revise these statements in light of future developments. See the section titled "Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" in this report. Overview Unity is the worlds leading platform for creating and operating interactive, RT3D content. Our platform provides a comprehensive set of software solutions to create, run, and monetize interactive, real-time 2D and 3D content for mobile phones, tablets, PCs, consoles, and augmented and virtual reality devices. Our platform consists of two distinct, but connected and synergistic, sets of solutions: Create Solutions and Operate Solutions. Impact of Macroeconomic Trends Recent negative macroeconomic factors, such as inflation and corresponding higher interest rates, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar, and the softening of the advertising market could negatively impact our business, particularly our Operate Solutions. We are managing costs in light of these factors and continuing to monitor their potential direct and indirect impacts. The impact of these macroeconomic trends remains uncertain, and we cannot reasonably estimate the impact on our future results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition. For additional details, refer to the section titled "Risk Factors." Key Metrics As further discussed in Item 2 of Part I, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, we monitor the following key metrics to help us evaluate the health of our business, identify trends affecting our growth, formulate goals and objectives, and make strategic decisions. Customers Contributing More Than $100,000 of Revenue We had 1,075 and 973 customers contributing more than $100,000 of revenue in the trailing 12 months as of September 30, 2022 and 2021, respectively. While we continue to demonstrate our ability to grow our revenues with existing customers year over year, and our strong and growing penetration of larger enterprises, including AAA gaming studios and large organizations in industries beyond gaming, our rate of growth slowed due to challenges in Operate Solutions. While these customers represented the substantial majority of revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 and 2021, respectively, no one customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenue for either period. Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate Our ability to drive growth and generate incremental revenue depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and grow our relationships with our Create and Operate Solutions customers and to increase their use of our platform. We track our performance by measuring our dollar-based net expansion rate, which compares our Create and Operate Solutions revenue from the same set of customers across comparable periods, calculated on a trailing 12-month basis. 19 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. As of September 30, 2022 September 30, 2021 Dollar-based net expansion rate 111 % 142 % Our dollar-based net expansion rate as of September 30, 2022 and 2021, was driven primarily by the sales of additional subscriptions and services to our existing Create Solutions customers, consumption among our existing Operate Solutions customers, and cross-selling our solutions to all of our customers. The decrease in dollar-based net expansion rate, compared to the comparable prior year period, is attributable to Operate Solutions and follows a similar trend to the revenue decrease seen from those solutions. The chart below illustrates that our dollar-based net expansion rate has been declining over the last year. Despite this decline, we are still maintaining strong relationships with our existing customers. 20 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. Results of Operations The following table summarizes our historical consolidated statements of operations data for the periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2022 2021 2022 2021 Revenue $ 322,881 $ 286,328 $ 940,050 $ 794,662 Cost of revenue 111,903 63,517 302,572 179,976 Gross profit 210,978 222,811 637,478 614,686 Operating expenses Research and development 248,380 178,413 685,380 486,644 Sales and marketing 109,639 97,425 314,486 242,106 General and administrative 92,585 73,723 246,065 272,772 Total operating expenses 450,604 349,561 1,245,931 1,001,522 Loss from operations (239,626) (126,750) (608,453) (386,836) Interest expense (1,135) (3,369) (600) Interest income and other expense, net 2,208 (64) 91 1,571 Loss before income taxes (238,553) (126,814) (611,731) (385,865) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 11,468 (11,662) 20,003 (14,911) Net loss (250,021) (115,152) (631,734) (370,954) The following table sets forth the components of our condensed consolidated statements of operations data as a percentage of revenue for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2022 2021 2022 2021 Revenue 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 35 22 32 23 Gross margin 65 78 68 77 Operating expenses Research and development 77 62 73 61 Sales and marketing 34 34 33 30 General and administrative 29 26 26 34 Total operating expenses 140 122 132 125 Loss from operations (74) (44) (65) (49) Interest expense Interest income and other expense, net 1 Loss before income taxes (73) (44) (65) (49) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 4 (4) 2 (2) Net loss (77) % (40) % (67) % (47) % 21 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. Revenue We derive revenue from Create Solutions, Operate Solutions, and Strategic Partnerships and Other. Create Solutions We generate Create Solutions revenue primarily through the sale of subscription arrangements for the use of our products and related support services. We offer subscription plans at various price points and recognize revenue over a service period that generally ranges from one to three years. We typically bill our customers on a monthly, quarterly or annual basis, depending on the size of the contract. We generate additional Create Solutions revenue from the sale of professional services to our subscription customers. These services primarily consist of consulting, integration, training and custom application and workflow development, and may be billed in advance or on a time and materials basis. We generate Create revenue from a mix of customers both within and outside of gaming, with an increasing proportion generated from customers outside of gaming. Operate Solutions We generate Operate Solutions revenue through a combination of revenue-share and consumption-based business models that we manage as a portfolio of products and services. Our monetization products are primarily based on a revenue-share model and account for a majority of our Operate Solutions revenue. We recognize monetization revenue when an end user installs an application after seeing an advertisement (contracted on a cost-per-install basis), and when an advertisement starts (contracted on a cost-per-impression basis). Our revenue represents the amount we retain from the transaction we facilitate through our Unified Auction, a real-time bidding exchange that gives our customers access to Unity's network of over 60+ diverse demand sources. Actions by operating system platform providers or application stores such as Apple or Google may affect the manner in which we or our customers collect, use and share data from end-user devices. We also provide cloud-based services to support the ongoing operation of games and applications. These include application hosting services, as well as end-user engagement tools and voice chat services. These services are generally sold based on consumption and billed monthly in arrears. Some of our consumption-based contracts include a minimum fixed-fee consumption amount. We expect that our Operate Solutions beyond monetization, including cloud operations and hosting services, such as Multiplay, will grow as a percentage of our revenue as we further scale newer products and services for gaming customers as well as customers in other industries. The results of our Operate Solutions were impacted by the data quality and accuracy challenges we initially observed in the first quarter of 2022. Our interventions to address these challenges through the third quarter of 2022 have been effective. However, external factors, including the competitive landscape, recent negative macroeconomic conditions, and the softening of the advertising market and reduced advertiser spend lead us to believe that the growth of our Operate Solutions revenue will be adversely impacted into 2023. Strategic Partnerships and Other We generate Strategic Partnerships revenue primarily from partnership contracts with hardware, operating system, device, game console, and other technology providers. Typically, we recognize revenue from these contracts as services are performed. In addition, certain partners pay us royalties based on the sales of applications sold on their platform that incorporate or use our customized software. We generate Other revenue primarily from our share of sales from our Asset Store, a marketplace and scaled aggregator for software, content, and tools used in the creation of real-time interactive games and applications, and from our Verified Solutions Partners, which sell software and tools certified for quality and compatibility with our platform. 22 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. Our total revenue is summarized as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended September 30, September 30, 2022 2021 2022 2021 Create Solutions $ 128,629 $ 83,743 $ 365,918 $ 226,744 Operate Solutions 171,699 185,021 514,218 514,515 Strategic Partnerships and Other 22,553 17,564 59,914 53,403 Total revenue $ 322,881 $ 286,328 $ 940,050 $ 794,662 The increase in total revenue in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022, compared to the comparable prior year periods, was primarily due to an increase in new customers as well as growth among existing customers within Create Solutions. Revenue from Operate Solutions declined in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022 as we recovered from the challenges with our Operate Solutions services observed in earlier quarters of 2022 and further adversely impacted by external factors, including the competitive landscape, negative macroeconomic conditions, and reduced advertiser spend. Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit, and Gross Margin Cost of revenue consists primarily of hosting expenses, personnel costs (including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation) for employees associated with our product support and professional services organizations, allocated overhead (including facilities, information technology ("IT"), and security costs), third-party license fees, and credit card fees, as well as amortization of related capitalized software and depreciation of related property and equipment. Gross profit, or revenue less cost of revenue, has been and will continue to be affected by various factors, including our product mix, the costs associated with third-party hosting services, and the extent to which we expand and drive efficiencies in our hosting costs, professional services, and customer support organizations. We expect our gross profit to increase in absolute dollars in the long term, but we expect our gross profit as a percentage of revenue, or gross margin, to fluctuate from period to period. Cost of revenue for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022 increased, compared to the comparable prior year periods, primarily due to higher personnel-related expenses associated with increased headcount, as well as an increase of $7.7 million and $22.9 million, respectively, in amortization expenses related to intangible assets acquired through our business acquisitions and an increase of $8.8 million and $23.0 million, respectively, related to professional service fees. Gross profit for the three months ended September 30, 2022 decreased, compared to the comparable prior year period, primarily due the decline in Operate Solutions revenue, the aforementioned expense increases in cost of revenue, and a shift in revenue mix to lower margin services. Gross profit for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 increased, compared to the comparable prior year period, primarily due to an increase in revenue in our Create Solutions. 23 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses. The most significant component of our operating expenses is personnel-related costs, including salaries and wages, sales commissions, bonuses, benefits, stock-based compensation, and payroll taxes. Although personnel-related costs contributed to the majority of the increase in expense period over period, we are slowing down our hiring efforts and focusing on containing the growth rate of other expenses in an effort to manage costs in light of the worsening macroeconomic environment. Research and Development Research and development expenses primarily consist of personnel-related costs for the design and development of our platform, third-party software services, professional services, and allocated overhead. We expense research and development expenses as they are incurred. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars and may fluctuate as a percentage of revenue from period to period as we expand our teams to develop new products, expand features and functionality with existing products, and enter new markets. Research and development expense for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022 increased, compared to the comparable prior year periods, primarily due to higher personnel-related expenses as headcount increased to support continued product innovation, as well as an increase of $14.5 million and $44.6 million, respectively, in amortization expense related to intangible assets acquired through our business acquisitions. The increase in the nine months ended September 30, 2022, is further driven, to a lesser extent, by higher hosting expenses and travel and conference expenditures due to the softening of COVID-19 restrictions. Sales and Marketing Our sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs, advertising and marketing programs, including digital account-based marketing, user events such as developer-centric conferences and our annual Unite user conferences; and allocated overhead. We expect that our sales and marketing expense will increase in absolute dollars as we hire additional personnel, increase our account-based marketing, direct marketing and community outreach activities, invest in additional tools and technologies, and continue to build brand awareness. Our expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of revenue from period to period. Sales and marketing expense for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022 increased, compared to the comparable prior year periods, primarily due to higher personnel-related expenses as headcount increased to support the growth of our sales and marketing teams, as well as an increase of $4.1 million and $15.5 million, respectively, in amortization expense related to intangible assets acquired through our business acquisitions. The increase in the nine months ended September 30, 2022 was further driven, to a lesser extent, by increased travel and conference expenditures due to the softening of COVID-19 restrictions. General and Administrative Our general and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel-related costs for finance, legal, human resources, IT, and administrative employees; professional fees for external legal, accounting, and other professional services; and allocated overhead. We expect that our general and administrative expenses will increase in absolute dollars and may fluctuate as a percentage of revenue from period to period as we scale to support the growth of our business. General and administrative expense for the three months ended September 30, 2022 increased, compared to the comparable prior year period, primarily due to higher personnel-related expenses as headcount increased, as well as an increase in expenses associated with the formation of Unity China and acquisition-related expenses. 24 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. General and administrative expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 decreased, compared to the comparable prior year period, primarily due to a one-time charge of $49.8 million for the termination of a future lease contract and the incremental compensation expense of $10.5 million associated with the separation of our former Chief Financial Officer recognized in the nine months ended September 30, 2021. The decrease was partially offset primarily by higher personnel-related expenses as headcount increased. Interest Expense Interest expense consists primarily of interest expense associated with our amortization of convertible debt issuance costs. Interest expense for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022 increased, compared to the comparable prior year periods, due to our debt issuance costs amortization. Interest Income and Other Expense, Net Interest income and other expense , net , consists primarily of interest income earned on our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, amortization of premium arising at acquisition of marketable securities, foreign currency remeasurement gains and losses, and foreign currency transaction gains and losses. As we have expanded our global operations, our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currencies has increased, and we expect this to continue. Interest income and other expense, net, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022 increased, compared to the comparable prior year periods, primarily due to interest income earned and amortization of premium related to our deposit accounts, time deposits, and investments. Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists primarily of income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions where we conduct business. We have a valuation allowance against certain of our deferred tax assets, including net operating loss ("NOL") carryforwards and tax credits related primarily to research and development. Our overall effective income tax rate in future periods may be affected by the geographic mix of earnings in the countries in which we operate. Our future effective tax rate may also be affected by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles in the jurisdictions in which we conduct business. See Note 10, "Income Taxes," of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Provision for income taxes for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022 increased, compared to the comparable prior year periods, primarily due to the tax expense recognized as a result of a base-erosion and anti-abuse tax ("BEAT") mainly arising as a result of mandatory research and development capitalization under the IRC Section 174. Also, for the quarter ended September 30, 2021, a tax benefit from stock-based compensation activities in the U.K. was recognized, while for the period ended September 30, 2022 we maintained a valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets in the U.K. The quarter ended September 30, 2021 also included an income tax benefit recognized in the quarter as a result of a partial release of a valuation allowance against our U.S. deferred tax assets in connection with business combinations. Non-GAAP Financial Measures To supplement our consolidated financial statements prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP we use certain non-GAAP financial measures, as described below, to evaluate our ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes. We believe the following non-GAAP measures are useful in evaluating our operating performance. We are presenting these non-GAAP financial measures because we believe, when taken collectively, they may be helpful to investors because they provide consistency and comparability with past financial performance. In the future, we may also exclude non-recurring expenses and other expenses that do not reflect our overall operating results. 25 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. However, non-GAAP financial measures have limitations in their usefulness to investors because they have no standardized meaning prescribed by GAAP and are not prepared under any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate similarly-titled non-GAAP financial measures differently or may use other measures to evaluate their performance, all of which could reduce the usefulness of our non-GAAP financial measures as tools for comparison. As a result, our non-GAAP financial measures are presented for supplemental informational purposes only and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for our consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP Gross Profit and Non-GAAP Loss from Operations We define non-GAAP gross profit as gross profit excluding stock-based compensation expense, employer tax related to employee stock transactions, and amortization of acquired intangible assets expense. We define non-GAAP loss from operations as loss from operations excluding stock-based compensation expense, employer tax related to employee stock transactions, amortization of acquired intangible assets expense, costs incurred in connection with the formation of Unity China, and acquisition-related costs. We use non-GAAP gross profit and non-GAAP loss from operations in conjunction with traditional GAAP measures to evaluate our financial performance. We believe that non-GAAP gross profit and non-GAAP loss from operations provide our management and investors consistency and comparability with our past financial performance and facilitates period-to-period comparisons of operations, as these metrics exclude expenses that we do not consider to be indicative of our overall operating performance. Non-GAAP gross profit and non-GAAP loss from operations have limitations as analytical tools, and you should not consider them in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are: they exclude expense associated with our equity compensation plan, although equity compensation has been, and will continue to be, an important part of our compensation strategy; non-GAAP gross profit and non-GAAP loss from operations excludes the expense of amortization of acquired intangible assets, and although these are non-cash expenses, the assets being amortized may have to be replaced in the future and non-GAAP gross profit and non-GAAP loss from operations does not reflect cash expenditure for such replacements; non-GAAP loss from operations excludes costs incurred in connection with the formation of Unity China; non-GAAP loss from operations excludes costs incurred from our acquisitions; and the expenses and other items that we exclude in our calculation of non-GAAP gross profit and non-GAAP loss from operations may differ from the expenses and other items, if any, that other companies may exclude from this measure or similarly titled measures, which reduces their usefulness as comparative measures. 26 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. The following table presents a reconciliation of our non-GAAP gross profit to our GAAP gross profit, the most directly comparable measure as determined in accordance with GAAP, for the periods presented (in thousands): Three Months Ended September 30, 2022 2021 GAAP gross profit $ 210,978 $ 222,811 Add: Stock-based compensation expense 18,097 7,780 Employer tax related to employee stock transactions 655 975 Amortization of intangible assets expense 7,713 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 237,443 $ 231,566 GAAP gross margin 65 % 78 % Non-GAAP gross margin 74 % 81 % The year-over-year change in non-GAAP gross margin was primarily due to product mix of revenues, including a lower mix from Operate, and an increase of personnel-related costs to support Weta Digital. The following table presents a reconciliation of our non-GAAP loss from operations to our GAAP loss from operations, the most directly comparable measure as determined in accordance with GAAP, for the periods presented (in thousands): Three Months Ended September 30, 2022 2021 GAAP loss from operations $ (239,626) $ (126,750) Add: Stock-based compensation expense 154,479 97,317 Employer tax related to employee stock transactions 3,808 10,214 Amortization of intangible assets expense 33,419 7,144 Costs incurred in connection with the formation of Unity China 909 Acquisition-related costs 9,576 5,923 Non-GAAP loss from operations $ (37,435) $ (6,152) The year-over-year change in our non-GAAP loss from operations was primarily due to the slower revenue growth, outpaced by our operating expenses, which were driven by an increase in headcount across the entire company to support investments in the business. Non-GAAP Net Loss and Non-GAAP Net Loss per Share We define non-GAAP net loss and non-GAAP net loss per share as net loss and net loss per share excluding stock-based compensation expense, employer tax related to employee stock transactions, amortization of acquired intangible assets expense, costs incurred in connection with the formation of Unity China, and acquisition-related costs as well as the related tax effects of these items. We use non-GAAP net loss and non-GAAP net loss per share in conjunction with traditional GAAP measures to evaluate our financial performance. We believe that these non-GAAP measures provide our management and investors consistency and comparability with our past financial performance and facilitates period-to-period comparisons of operations. 27 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. Non-GAAP net loss and non-GAAP net loss per share have limitations as analytical tools, and you should not consider them in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are: they exclude expense associated with our equity compensation plan, although equity compensation has been, and will continue to be, an important part of our compensation strategy; they exclude the expense of amortization of acquired intangible assets, and although these are non-cash expenses, the assets being amortized may have to be replaced in the future and non-GAAP loss from operations does not reflect cash expenditure for such replacements; they exclude the costs incurred in connection with the formation of Unity China; they exclude the costs incurred from our acquisitions; as further described below, we must make certain assumptions in order to determine the income tax effect adjustment for non-GAAP net loss, which assumptions may not prove to be accurate; and the expenses and other items that we exclude in our calculation of non-GAAP net loss and non-GAAP net loss per share may differ from the expenses and other items, if any, that other companies may exclude from this measure or similarly titled measures, which reduces their usefulness as comparative measures. Income Tax Effects of Non-GAAP Adjustments We utilize a fixed annual projected tax rate in our computation of non-GAAP income tax effects to provide better consistency across interim reporting periods. In projecting this non-GAAP tax rate, we utilize a financial projection that excludes the direct impact of the non-GAAP adjustments described above, and eliminates the effects of those items which can vary in size and frequency. The projected rate considers other factors such as our current operating structure, existing tax positions in various jurisdictions, and key legislation in major jurisdictions where we operate. For the year ended December 31, 2021, the non-GAAP tax rate was (22)%. For the year ending December 31, 2022, we have determined the projected non-GAAP tax rate to be (10)%. We will periodically re-evaluate this tax rate, as necessary, for significant events, relevant tax law changes, material changes in the forecasted geographic earnings mix, and any significant acquisitions. 28 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. The following table presents a reconciliation of our non-GAAP net loss and non-GAAP net loss per share to our GAAP net loss and GAAP net loss per share, respectively, which are the most directly comparable measures as determined in accordance with GAAP, for the periods presented (in thousands, except per share data ): Three Months Ended September 30, 2022 2021 GAAP net loss $ (250,021) $ (115,152) Add: Stock-based compensation expense 154,479 97,317 Employer tax related to employee stock transactions 3,808 10,214 Amortization of intangible assets expense 33,419 7,144 Costs incurred in connection with the formation of Unity China 909 Acquisition-related costs 9,576 5,923 Income tax effect of non-GAAP adjustments 7,832 (13,030) Non-GAAP net loss $ (39,998) $ (7,584) GAAP net loss per share attributable to our common stockholders, basic and diluted $ (0.84) $ (0.41) Total impact on net loss per share, basic and diluted, from non-GAAP adjustments 0.70 0.38 Non-GAAP net loss per share attributable to our common stockholders, basic and diluted $ (0.14) $ (0.03) Weighted-average common shares used in GAAP net loss per share computation, basic and diluted 299,062 283,714 Weighted-average common shares used in non-GAAP net loss per share computation, basic and diluted 299,062 283,714 Free Cash Flow We define free cash flow as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities less cash used for purchases of property and equipment. We believe that free cash flow is a useful indicator of liquidity as it measures our ability to generate cash, or our need to access additional sources of cash, to fund operations and investments. Free cash flow has limitations as an analytical tool, and you should not consider it in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are: it is not a substitute for net cash provided by (used in) operating activities; other companies may calculate free cash flow or similarly titled non-GAAP measures differently or may use other measures to evaluate their performance, all of which could reduce the usefulness of free cash flow as a tool for comparison; and the utility of free cash flow is further limited as it does not reflect our future contractual commitments and does not represent the total increase or decrease in our cash balance for any given period. 29 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. The following table presents a reconciliation of free cash flow to net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, the most directly comparable measure as determined in accordance with GAAP, for the periods presented (in thousands): Nine Months Ended September 30, 2022 2021 Net cash used in operating activities $ (10,370) $ (71,940) Less: Purchases of property and equipment (42,344) (27,959) Free cash flow $ (52,714) $ (99,899) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ 141,564 $ (508,963) Net cash provided by financing activities $ 56,484 $ 53,150 The year-over-year change in free cash flow was primarily due to the receipt of four years of license fees of approximately $200.0 million from Weta FX, which was connected to the acquisition of certain assets from Weta Digital, partially offset by the payment in 2022 of the corporate bonus for the year ended December 31, 2021, our net loss, prepayments of software licenses, and an increase in working capital as our business grows. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 30, 2022, our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities totaling $1.7 billion, which were primarily held for working capital purposes. Our cash equivalents and marketable securities are invested primarily in fixed income securities, including government and investment-grade debt securities and money market funds. Our material cash requirements from known contractual and other obligations consists of our convertible notes, obligations under operating leases for office space, and contractual obligations for hosting services to support our business operations. On November 7, 2022, we completed the acquisition of ironSource, Ltd. (the "ironSouce Merger"). In connection with the ironSource Merger, we entered into an investment agreement with Silver Lake Alpine II, L.P., and Silver Lake Partners VI, L.P. and Sequoia Capital Fund, L.P. (the "Investors") relating to the issuance and sale to the Investors of $1.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of our 2.0% Convertible Senior Notes due 2027 (the "2027 Notes"). The closing of the issuance and sale of the 2027 Notes (the "PIPE") occurred promptly following the closing of the ironSource Merger. The proceeds from the issuance and sale of the 2027 Notes are expected to be used to partially fund the repurchase of shares of our common stock pursuant to a 24-month, $2.5 billion stock repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors effective upon the closing of the ironSource Merger. We may repurchase shares at our discretion in the open market, pursuant to accelerated repurchase agreements and/or in accordance with Rule 10b-18 under the Exchange Act and all other applicable federal and state securities laws and regulations and in accordance with Delaware General Corporation Law. The program may be modified, suspended or discontinued at any time. The amount and timing of repurchases are subject to a variety of factors, including liquidity, cash flow, and market conditions. Since our inception, we have generated losses from our operations and we expect to continue to incur operating losses on a GAAP basis for the foreseeable future due to the investments we will continue to make in research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative. As a result, we may require additional capital to execute our strategic initiatives to grow our business. 30 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. We believe our existing sources of liquidity will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. We believe we will meet longer-term expected future cash requirements and obligations through a combination of cash flows from operating activities, available cash balances, and potential future equity or debt transactions. Our future capital requirements, however, will depend on many factors, including our growth rate; the timing and extent of spending to support our research and development efforts; capital expenditures to build out new facilities and purchase hardware and software; the expansion of sales and marketing activities; and our continued need to invest in our IT infrastructure to support our growth. In addition, we may enter into additional strategic partnerships as well as agreements to acquire or invest in complementary products, teams and technologies, including intellectual property rights, which could increase our cash requirements. As a result of these and other factors, we may choose or be required to seek additional equity or debt financing sooner than we currently anticipate. If additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when required, or if we cannot expand our operations or otherwise capitalize on our business opportunities because we lack sufficient capital, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be adversely affected. Our changes in cash flows were as follows (in thousands): Nine Months Ended September 30, 2022 2021 Net cash used in operating activities $ (10,370) $ (71,940) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 141,564 (508,963) Net cash provided by financing activities 56,484 53,150 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash (4,185) 58 Net change in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ 183,493 $ (527,695) Cash Used in Operating Activities During the nine months ended September 30, 2022 , net cash used in operating activities was primarily due to payment in 2022 of the corporate bonus for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2021, our net loss, prepayments of software licenses, and an increase in working capital as our business grows, partially offset by the receipt of the prepayment of four years of license fees connected to the acquisition of certain assets from Weta Digital. Our cash flows fluctuate from period to period due to revenue seasonality, timing of billings, collections, and publisher payments. Historical cash flows are not necessarily indicative of our results in any future period. Cash Provided by Investing Activities During the nine months ended September 30, 2022 , net cash provided by investing activities consisted of net cash provided by marketable securities offset by cash used in acquisitions, non-marketable investments, and capital expenditures. Cash Provided by Financing Activities During the nine months ended September 30, 2022, net cash provided by financing activities consisted solely of proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our employee equity plans. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Management's discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These principles require us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses, and related disclosures. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and our actual results, our future financial statements will be affected. 31 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates from those disclosed in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, filed with the SEC on February 22, 2022.