Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Please read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included under Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements are statements that attempt to forecast or anticipate future developments in our business, financial condition or results of operations. When reviewing the discussion below, you should keep in mind the substantial risks and uncertainties that could impact our business. In particular, we encourage you to review the risks and uncertainties described in "Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors" included elsewhere in this report. These risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements contained in this report or implied by past results and trends. Forward-looking statements, like all statements in this report, speak only as of their date (unless another date is indicated), and we undertake no obligation to update or revise these statements in light of future developments. See the section titled "Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factor Summary" in this report. Overview Unity is the worlds leading platform for creating and growing interactive, real-time 3D ("RT3D") content. Our comprehensive set of software solutions supports them through the entire development lifecycle as they build, run, and grow immersive, real-time 2D and 3D content for mobile phones, tablets, PCs, consoles, and augmented and virtual reality devices. Our platform consists of two distinct, but connected and synergistic, sets of solutions: Create Solutions and Grow Solutions. Impact of Macroeconomic Trends Recent negative macroeconomic factors, such as inflation, corresponding heightened interest rates and limited credit availability, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar, and continued softness of the advertising market have negatively impacted our business and may continue to do so. The impact of these macroeconomic trends remains uncertain, and we cannot reasonably estimate the impact on our future results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition. For additional details, refer to the section titled "Risk Factors." Key Metrics As further discussed in Item 2 of Part I, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, we monitor the following key metrics to help us evaluate the health of our business, identify trends affecting our growth, formulate goals and objectives, and make strategic decisions. Customers Contributing More Than $100,000 of Revenue We had 1,322 and 1,083 customers contributing more than $100,000 of revenue in the trailing 12 months as of March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, demonstrating our ability to grow our revenues with existing customers, and our strong and growing penetration of larger enterprises, including AAA gaming studios and large organizations in industries beyond gaming. We also experienced an increase of these customers as a result of the ironSource Merger. While these customers represented the substantial majority of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, no one customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenue for either period. Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate Our ability to drive growth and generate incremental revenue depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and grow our relationships with our Create and Grow Solutions customers and to increase their use of our platform. We track our performance by measuring our dollar-based net expansion rate, which compares our Create and Grow Solutions revenue from the same set of customers across comparable periods, calculated on a trailing 12-month basis. 17 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. As of March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022 Dollar-based net expansion rate 107 % 135 % Our dollar-based net expansion rate as of March 31, 2023 and 2022, was driven primarily by the sales of additional subscriptions and services to our existing Create Solutions customers and cross-selling our solutions to all of our customers. The decrease in dollar-based net expansion rate, compared to the comparable prior year period, is attributable to Grow Solutions and follows a similar trend to the revenue decrease seen from those solutions prior to the ironSource Merger due to softness in the advertising market. The chart below illustrates that our dollar-based net expansion rate has been declining over the last year with a slight rebound in the fourth quarter due to the ironSource Merger. Despite this decline, we are still maintaining strong relationships with our existing customers. 18 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. Results of Operations The following table summarizes our historical consolidated statements of operations data for the periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Revenue $ 500,361 $ 320,126 Cost of revenue 161,964 93,833 Gross profit 338,397 226,293 Operating expenses Research and development 280,480 221,040 Sales and marketing 216,127 103,939 General and administrative 96,774 72,475 Total operating expenses 593,381 397,454 Loss from operations (254,984) (171,161) Interest expense (6,129) (1,111) Interest income and other expense, net 13,615 941 Loss before income taxes (247,498) (171,331) Provision for income taxes 6,205 6,224 Net loss (253,703) (177,555) The following table sets forth the components of our condensed consolidated statements of operations data as a percentage of revenue for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 32 29 Gross margin 68 71 Operating expenses Research and development 56 69 Sales and marketing 43 32 General and administrative 19 23 Total operating expenses 118 124 Loss from operations (51) (53) Interest expense (1) Interest income and other expense, net 3 Loss before income taxes (49) (53) Provision for income taxes 1 2 Net loss (50) % (55) % 19 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. Revenue Create Solutions We generate Create Solutions revenue primarily through our suite of Create Solutions subscriptions, enterprise support, professional services and cloud and hosting services. Our subscriptions provide customers access to technologies that allow them to edit, run, and iterate interactive, RT3D and 2D experiences that can be created once and deployed to a variety of platforms. Enhanced support services are provided to our enterprise customers and are sold separately from the Create Solutions subscriptions. Professional services are provided to our customers and include consulting, platform integration, training, and custom application and workflow development. Cloud and hosting services are provided to our customers to simplify and enhance the way our users access and harness our solutions. Grow Solutions We generate Grow Solutions revenue primarily through our monetization solutions, user acquisition offerings, and Supersonic, a game publishing service. Our monetization solutions allow publishers, original equipment manufacturers, and mobile carriers to sell available advertising inventory on their mobile applications or hardware devices to advertisers for in-application or on-device placements. Our revenue represents the amount we retain from the transaction we are facilitating through our Unified Auction and mediation platform. Supersonic provides game developers with the infrastructure and expertise to launch their mobile games and manage their growth; this is achieved through marketability testing tools, live games management tools and game design support, and optimizing the implementation of the customer's commercial model. Through Supersonic, we generate revenue from in-app advertising in published games and in some cases, in app purchase revenue. Our total revenue is summarized as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Create Solutions $ 187,369 $ 164,544 Grow Solutions 312,992 155,582 Total revenue $ 500,361 $ 320,126 The increase in total revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to the comparable prior year period, was primarily due to the acquisition and inclusion of revenue from ironSource within Grow Solutions. Revenue from Create Solutions increased primarily due to growth in new customers, as well as growth among existing customers. Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit, and Gross Margin Cost of revenue consists primarily of hosting expenses, personnel costs (including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation) for employees associated with our product support and professional services organizations, allocated overhead (including facilities, information technology ("IT"), and security costs), third-party license fees, and credit card fees, as well as amortization of intangible assets, related capitalized software and depreciation of related property and equipment. Gross profit, or revenue less cost of revenue, has been and will continue to be affected by various factors, including our product mix, the costs associated with third-party hosting services, and the extent to which we expand and drive efficiencies in our hosting costs, professional services, and customer support organizations. We expect our gross profit to increase in absolute dollars in the long term, but we expect our gross profit as a percentage of revenue, or gross margin, to fluctuate from period to period. 20 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. Cost of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2023 increased, compared to the comparable prior year period, primarily due to higher personnel-related expenses associated with increased headcount including those associated with ironSource Merger, as well as an increase of approximately $27 million in amortization expenses related to intangible assets acquired through our business acquisitions. We also experienced an increase of approximately $9 million in hosting and other third party related expenses primarily due to the inclusion of ironSource, as well as higher expenses to support increased usage of our solutions. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses. The most significant component of our operating expenses is personnel-related costs, including salaries and wages, sales commissions, bonuses, benefits, stock-based compensation, and payroll taxes. Although personnel-related costs contributed to the majority of the increase in expense period over period primarily due to the increased headcount resulting from the ironSource Merger, we have been evaluating our headcount needs, slowing down our hiring efforts, reducing the number of managerial layers, and focusing on containing the growth rate of other expenses. For example, we incurred approximately $14 million in costs associated with headcount reductions during the quarter ended March 31, 2023 and in May, we announced that we estimate an additional amount of approximately $26 million to be substantially incurred in the second quarter of 2023. Research and Development Research and development expenses primarily consist of personnel-related costs for the design and development of our platform, third-party software services, professional services, and allocated overhead. We expense research and development expenses as they are incurred. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars and may fluctuate as a percentage of revenue from period to period as we expand our teams to develop new products, expand features and functionality with existing products, and enter new markets. Research and development expense for the three months ended March 31, 2023 increased, compared to the comparable prior year period, primarily due to higher personnel-related expenses as headcount increased due to the ironSource Merger and to support continued product innovation. The increase was further driven, to a lesser extent, by higher hosting expenses. Sales and Marketing Our sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs, advertising and marketing programs, including user acquisition costs and digital account-based marketing, user events such as developer-centric conferences and our annual Unite user conferences; and allocated overhead. We expect that our sales and marketing expense will increase in absolute dollars as we hire additional personnel, increase our account-based marketing, direct marketing and community outreach activities, invest in additional tools and technologies, and continue to build brand awareness. Our expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of revenue from period to period. Sales and marketing expense for the three months ended March 31, 2023 increased, compared to the comparable prior year period, primarily due to an increase in amortization expense related to intangible assets acquired through our business acquisitions of approximately $38 million. We also experienced higher personnel-related and user acquisition costs due to the ironSource Merger, as well as increased headcount to support the growth of our sales and marketing teams. General and Administrative Our general and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel-related costs for finance, legal, human resources, IT, and administrative employees; professional fees for external legal, accounting, and other professional services; and allocated overhead. We expect that our general and administrative expenses will increase in absolute dollars and may fluctuate as a percentage of revenue from period to period as we scale to support the growth of our business. 21 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. General and administrative expense for the three months ended March 31, 2023 increased, compared to the comparable prior year period, primarily due to higher personnel-related expenses as headcount increased as a result of the ironSource Merger, which was partially offset by a decrease in professional fees. Interest Expense Interest expense consists primarily of interest expense associated with our convertible debt and amortization of debt issuance costs. Interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2023 increased, compared to the comparable prior year period, due to accrued interest on our 2027 notes and debt issuance costs amortization. Interest Income and Other Expense, Net Interest income and other expense, net, consists primarily of interest income earned on our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, amortization of premium arising at acquisition of short-term investments, foreign currency remeasurement gains and losses, and foreign currency transaction gains and losses. As we have expanded our global operations, our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currencies has increased, and we expect this to continue. Interest income and other expense, net, for the three months ended March 31, 2023 increased, compared to the comparable prior year period, primarily due to interest and dividend income earned on our money market investments and time deposit accounts. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists primarily of income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions where we conduct business. We have a valuation allowance against certain of our deferred tax assets, including net operating loss ("NOL") carryforwards and tax credits related primarily to research and development. Our overall effective income tax rate in future periods may be affected by the geographic mix of earnings in the countries in which we operate. Our future effective tax rate may also be affected by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles in the jurisdictions in which we conduct business. See Note 9, "Income Taxes," of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Provision for income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2023 decreased primarily due to tax benefits recognized for the three months ended March 31, 2023 from certain tax restructuring efforts during the period that enhanced our ability to offset deferred tax liabilities in the U.S. in future periods, thereby partially reducing the need for a valuation allowance. Non-GAAP Financial Measures To supplement our consolidated financial statements prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP we use certain non-GAAP financial measures, as described below, to evaluate our ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes. We believe the following non-GAAP measures are useful in evaluating our operating performance. We are presenting these non-GAAP financial measures because we believe, when taken collectively, they may be helpful to investors because they provide consistency and comparability with past financial performance. However, non-GAAP financial measures have limitations in their usefulness to investors because they have no standardized meaning prescribed by GAAP and are not prepared under any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate similarly-titled non-GAAP financial measures differently or may use other measures to evaluate their performance, all of which could reduce the usefulness of our non-GAAP financial measures as tools for comparison. As a result, our non-GAAP financial measures are presented for supplemental informational purposes only and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for our consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP. 22 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. Beginning in the first quarter of 2023, we have replaced non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP loss from operations, non-GAAP net loss, and non-GAAP net loss per share with adjusted gross profit and adjusted EBITDA. These measures have also been presented for the prior year period in a comparable manner. Adjusted Gross Profit and Adjusted EBITDA We define adjusted gross profit as GAAP gross profit excluding expenses associated with stock-based compensation, amortization of acquired intangible assets, depreciation, and restructurings and reorganizations. We define adjusted EBITDA as net income or loss excluding benefits or expenses associated with stock-based compensation, amortization of acquired intangible assets, depreciation, acquisitions, restructurings and reorganizations, interest, income tax, and other non-operating activities, which primarily consist of foreign exchange rate gains or losses. We use adjusted gross profit and adjusted EBITDA in conjunction with traditional GAAP measures to evaluate our financial performance. We believe that adjusted gross profit and adjusted EBITDA provide our management and investors consistency and comparability with our past financial performance and facilitates period-to-period comparisons of operations, as these metrics exclude expenses that we do not consider to be indicative of our overall operating performance. The following table presents a reconciliation of our adjusted gross profit to our GAAP gross profit, the most directly comparable measure as determined in accordance with GAAP, for the periods presented (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 GAAP gross profit $ 338,397 $ 226,293 Add: Stock-based compensation expense 18,849 8,794 Amortization of intangible assets expense 34,265 7,555 Depreciation expense 2,364 1,238 Restructuring and reorganization costs 119 Adjusted gross profit $ 393,994 $ 243,880 GAAP gross margin 68 % 71 % Adjusted gross margin 79 % 76 % The following table presents a reconciliation of our adjusted EBITDA to net loss, the most directly comparable measure as determined in accordance with GAAP, for the periods presented (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Net loss $ (253,703) $ (177,555) Stock-based compensation expense 163,028 103,427 Amortization of intangible assets expense 97,920 32,702 Depreciation expense 11,640 8,770 Acquisition-related costs 729 1,081 Restructuring and reorganization costs 14,130 2,330 Interest expense 6,129 1,111 Interest income and other expense, net (13,615) (941) Income tax expense 6,205 6,224 Adjusted EBITDA $ 32,463 $ (22,851) 23 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. Free Cash Flow We define free cash flow as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities less cash used for purchases of property and equipment. We believe that free cash flow is a useful indicator of liquidity as it measures our ability to generate cash, or our need to access additional sources of cash, to fund operations and investments. The following table presents a reconciliation of free cash flow to net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, the most directly comparable measure as determined in accordance with GAAP, for the periods presented (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ (5,099) $ 101,300 Less: Purchases of property and equipment (14,350) (14,929) Free cash flow $ (19,449) $ 86,371 Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2023, our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments totaling $1.6 billion, which were primarily held for working capital purposes. Our cash equivalents and short-term investments are invested primarily in fixed income securities, while we are continuing to monitor recent developments with respect to liquidity concerns at, and failures of, banks and other financial institutions, we are not currently experiencing any limitations or restrictions on our ability to access these balances. Our material cash requirements from known contractual and other obligations consists of our convertible notes, obligations under operating leases for office space, and contractual obligations for hosting services to support our business operations. See Part I, Item I, Note 7 "Commitments and Contingencies" for additional discussion of our principal contractual commitments. In connection with the ironSource Merger in November 2022, we issued the 2027 Notes, the proceeds of which were used to fund repurchases under our share repurchase program. We previously issued $1.7 billion in aggregate principal amount of 0% convertible senior notes due 2026 in November 2021 (together with the 2027 Notes, the "Notes"). See Part I, Item I, Note 6, "Borrowings" for additional discussion of the Notes. In July 2022, our board of directors approved our Share Repurchase Program, which authorized the repurchase of up to $2.5 billion of shares of our common stock in open market transactions through November 2024. As of March 31, 2023, $1.0 billion remains available for future share repurchases under this program. We did not repurchase any shares under the Share Repurchase Program during the quarter ended March 31, 2023. Since our inception, we have generated losses from our operations as reflected in our accumulated deficit of $2.5 billion as of March 31, 2023. We expect to continue to incur operating losses on a GAAP basis for the foreseeable future due to the investments we will continue to make in research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative. As a result, we may require additional capital to execute our strategic initiatives to grow our business. 24 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. We believe our existing sources of liquidity will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. We believe we will meet longer-term expected future cash requirements and obligations through a combination of cash flows from operating activities, available cash balances, and potential future equity or debt transactions. Our future capital requirements, however, will depend on many factors, including our growth rate; the timing and extent of spending to support our research and development efforts; capital expenditures to build out new facilities and purchase hardware and software; the expansion of sales and marketing activities; and our continued need to invest in our IT infrastructure to support our growth. In addition, we may enter into additional strategic partnerships as well as agreements to acquire or invest in complementary products, teams and technologies, including intellectual property rights, which could increase our cash requirements. As a result of these and other factors, we may choose or be required to seek additional equity or debt financing sooner than we currently anticipate. In addition, depending on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions, and other factors, we may also from time to time seek to retire or purchase our outstanding debt, including the Notes, through cash purchases and/or exchanges for equity securities, in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. If additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us, or at all, including as a result of macroeconomic conditions such as rising interest rates, volatility in the capital markets and liquidity concerns at, or failures of, banks and other financial institutions. If we are unable to raise additional capital when required, or if we cannot expand our operations or otherwise capitalize on our business opportunities because we lack sufficient capital, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be adversely affected. Our changes in cash flows were as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ (5,099) $ 101,300 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 88,111 (35,460) Net cash provided by financing activities 21,971 30,216 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash 3,151 37 Net change in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ 108,134 $ 96,093 Cash Used in Operating Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2023, net cash used in operating activities was primarily due to our net loss and changes in working capital, including payment in 2023 of the corporate bonus for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2022. Our cash flows fluctuate from period to period due to revenue seasonality, timing of billings, collections, and publisher payments. Historical cash flows are not necessarily indicative of our results in any future period. Cash Provided by Investing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2023, net cash provided by investing activities consisted primarily of proceeds received due to maturities of short-term investments. Cash Provided by Financing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2023, net cash provided by financing activities consisted solely of proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our employee equity plans. 25 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Management's discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These principles require us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses, and related disclosures. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and our actual results, our future financial statements will be affected. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates from those disclosed in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, filed with the SEC on February 27, 2023.