Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Please read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included under Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements are statements that attempt to forecast or anticipate future developments in our business, financial condition, or results of operations. When reviewing the discussion below, you should keep in mind the substantial risks and uncertainties that could impact our business. In particular, we encourage you to review the risks and uncertainties described in "Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors" included elsewhere in this report. These risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements contained in this report or implied by past results and trends. Forward-looking statements, like all statements in this report, speak only as of their date (unless another date is indicated), and we undertake no obligation to update or revise these statements in light of future developments. See the section titled "Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" in this report. This section of this Form 10-K generally discusses 2024 and 2023 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2024 and 2023. Discussion of 2022 and year-over-year comparisons between 40 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. fiscal 2023 and 2022 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found under the heading "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation" in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023, that was filed with the SEC on February 29, 2024, and are incorporated by reference herein. Overview Unity offers a suite of tools to create, market and grow games and interactive experiences across all major platforms from mobile, PC, and console, to extended reality (XR). Our platform consists of two complementary sets of solutions: Create Solutions and Grow Solutions, which together comprise our Strategic Portfolio surrounding the Unity Engine and related consumption services, and Monetization. Recent Developments in Our Business Starting in the fourth quarter of 2023, we began to reset our product and service offerings to focus on our core businesses, which we refer to as our "Strategic Portfolio": the Unity Engine and related consumption services, and Monetization, while narrowing our investments in new businesses to those most attractive, mainly Industries beyond gaming. We also exited businesses where we do not believe that we can provide unique value to customers or generate a sound return to investors. Specifically, we have limited our Professional Services business to a few selected strategic engagements, we are shifting our multiplayer business to support the demands of live multiplayer games beyond infrastructure, and we have stopped the independent development of professional artistry tools, which we will instead consider integrating into the Unity Editor. During the year ended December 31, 2024 we recognized approximately $90 million of revenue associated with these non-strategic portfolios and we expect that these amounts will decline throughout 2025. In the year ended December 31, 2024, we began to substantially reduce our workforce and our office footprint. This resulted in approximately $214 million in employee separation costs, primarily related to the acceleration and modifications of equity awards, and $53 million of non-employee charges associated with these reductions. We are continuing to evaluate our facility needs, and expect more changes in 2025. In the third quarter of 2023, we announced changes to our pricing model for our Create Solutions. We experienced a high volume of negative customer feedback including a boycott and a slow down of signing new contracts and renewals as a result of these changes. In the third quarter of 2024, before the pricing changes took effect, we announced the cancellation of those pricing changes, the reversion to a subscription-based model, and price increases, for gaming customers. While the initial customer response to this announcement has been positive and we expect this change to benefit our business over the long term, the ultimate impact remains uncertain. For additional details, refer to the section titled "Risk Factors." Key Metrics We monitor the following key metrics to help us evaluate the health of our business, identify trends affecting our growth, formulate goals and objectives, and make strategic decisions. In light of our portfolio reset, we have revised and restated these metrics to include inputs from our Strategic Portfolio only. Customers Contributing More Than $100,000 of Revenue We focus on the number of customers that generated more than $100,000 of revenue in our Strategic Portfolio, in the trailing 12 months, as this segment of our customer base represents the majority of our revenue. We define a customer as an individual or entity that generated revenue during the measurement period. A single organization with multiple divisions, segments, or subsidiaries is generally counted as a single customer, even though we may enter into commercial agreements with multiple parties within that organization. We had 1,254, 1,222, and 1,202 such customers in the trailing 12 months 41 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. as of December 31, 2024, 2023, and 2022, respectively. The year over year increase was largely a result of our subscriptions growth. While these customers represented the substantial majority of revenue for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023, and 2022, respectively, no one customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenue for any of those years. Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate Our ability to drive growth and generate incremental revenue depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and grow our relationships with our Create and Grow Solutions customers and to increase their use of our platform. We track our performance by measuring our dollar-based net expansion rate, which compares our Create and Grow Solutions revenue, excluding Strategic Partnerships and Supersonic, from the same set of customers across comparable periods, calculated on a trailing 12-month basis. Our dollar-based net expansion rate as of a period end is calculated as current period revenue divided by prior period revenue. Prior period revenue is the trailing 12-month revenue measured as of such prior period end and includes revenue from all customers that contributed revenue during such trailing 12-month period. Current period revenue is the trailing 12-month revenue from these same customers as of the current period end. Our dollar-based net expansion rate includes the effect of any customer renewals, expansion, contraction, and churn but excludes revenue from new customers in the current period. As of December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Dollar-based net expansion rate 96 % 100 % 111 % Our dollar-based net expansion rate as of December 31, 2024 was driven primarily by decreases in Grow Solutions revenue, due to competition in the advertising market, and to a lesser extent decreases in professional services revenue within Create Solutions, offset by growth in subscriptions revenue. Our dollar-based net expansion rate as of December 31, 2023, was driven primarily by decreases in Grow Solutions revenue, due to competition in the advertising market, offset by growth in subscriptions revenue, and professional services revenue, within Create Solutions. Our dollar-based net expansion rate as of December 31, 2022, was driven primarily by increases in Grow Solutions revenue, due in part to the ironSource merger, and growth in subscriptions revenue, and professional services revenue, within Create Solutions. The decrease in dollar-based net expansion rate, compared to the comparable prior year periods, is attributable to declines in Grow Solutions, and professional services revenue, as noted above. 42 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. The chart below illustrates that our dollar-based net expansion rate has been declining over the last year. Results of Operations The following table summarizes our consolidated statements of operations data for the periods indicated (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Revenue $ 1,813,255 $ 2,187,317 $ 1,391,024 Cost of revenue 480,853 733,722 442,500 Gross profit 1,332,402 1,453,595 948,524 Operating expenses Research and development 924,830 1,053,588 959,491 Sales and marketing 752,649 834,625 497,956 General and administrative 410,072 398,176 373,290 Total operating expenses 2,087,551 2,286,389 1,830,737 Loss from operations (755,149) (832,794) (882,213) Interest expense (23,542) (24,580) (7,404) Interest income and other income (expense), net 111,558 59,529 7,192 Loss before income taxes (667,133) (797,845) (882,425) Provision for (benefit from) Income taxes (2,846) 28,477 37,063 Net loss $ (664,287) $ (826,322) $ (919,488) 43 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. The following table sets forth the components of our consolidated statements of operations data as a percentage of revenue for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Revenue 100 % 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 27 34 32 Gross profit 73 66 68 Operating expenses Research and development 51 48 69 Sales and marketing 41 38 36 General and administrative 23 18 27 Total operating expenses 115 104 132 Loss from operations (42) (38) (63) Interest expense (1) (1) (1) Interest income and other income (expense), net 6 2 1 Loss before income taxes (37) (37) (63) Provision for (benefit from) Income taxes 1 3 Net loss (37) % (38) % (66) % Revenue Create Solutions We generate Create Solutions revenue primarily through our suite of Create Solutions subscriptions inclusive of enterprise support, professional services, and consumption services. Our subscriptions provide customers access to technologies that allow them to edit, run, and iterate interactive, RT3D and 2D experiences that can be created once and deployed to a variety of platforms. Enhanced support services are provided to our enterprise customers and are generally sold separately from the Create Solutions subscriptions. Professional services are provided to our customers and include consulting, platform integration, training, and custom application and workflow development. Cloud and hosting services are provided to our customers to simplify and enhance the way our users access and harness our solutions. Grow Solutions We generate Grow Solutions revenue primarily through our monetization solutions and game publishing services. Our monetization solutions allow publishers, original equipment manufacturers, and mobile carriers to sell available advertising inventory on their mobile applications or hardware devices to advertisers for in-application or on-device placements. Our revenue represents the amount we retain from the transaction we are facilitating through our Unified Auction and mediation platform. Our game publishing services provide game developers with the infrastructure and expertise to launch their mobile games and manage their growth; this is achieved through marketability testing tools, live games management tools and game design support, and optimizing the implementation of the customer's commercial model. Through these publishing services, we generate revenue from in-app advertising in published games and in some cases, in-app purchase revenue. Our Grow Solutions revenue did benefit from seasonality in 2024, with the fourth quarter being the strongest quarter for our Grow Solutions primarily as a result of an increase in players during the holidays and device sales during the fourth quarter holiday season. 44 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. Our total revenue is summarized as follows (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Create Solutions $ 613,966 $ 859,174 $ 716,078 Grow Solutions 1,199,289 1,328,143 674,946 Total revenue $ 1,813,255 $ 2,187,317 $ 1,391,024 Total revenue decreased in the year ended December 31, 2024, compared to the comparable prior year period, primarily due to a decrease in Create Solutions revenue, primarily due to the termination of the subscription agreement with Wt FX Limited, which includes approximately $99 million of incremental revenue in the fourth quarter of 2023 from terminating Wt FX Limited's subscription rights in exchange for a perpetual license; and a decrease in professional services revenue, and consumption services revenue, both caused by the portfolio reset. The decrease in Create Solutions revenue was partially offset by increases in subscription revenue. The decrease in total revenue was further driven by a decrease in Grow Solutions revenue, which was negatively impacted by competition. To be more competitive we are focused on enhancing our machine learning stack and data infrastructure capabilities, which we believe will take some time to manifest in sustainable increased performance. In the near term, we are transitioning to use the new machine learning stack, and we expect that this transition will negatively impact our Grow Solutions revenue, and improve gradually as our model improves and learns over time. The decrease in Grow Solutions revenue was further driven by the return of customer incentives, issued by ironSource prior to the merger, for which we received approximately $72 million of revenue in 2023, and no material amounts in 2024. We do not expect to receive any material amounts related to these customer incentives in any future periods. Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit, and Gross Margin Cost of revenue consists primarily of personnel costs (including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation) for employees and subcontractors associated with our product support and professional services organizations, hosting expenses, the amortization of intangible assets, and costs of related facilities. Gross profit, or revenue less cost of revenue, has been and will continue to be affected by various factors, including our product mix, the costs associated with third-party hosting services and the extent to which we expand and drive efficiencies in our hosting costs, professional services, and customer support organizations. We expect our gross profit to increase in absolute dollars in the long term but decrease in the short term as we reset our product portfolio to focus on the Unity Engine and related consumption services, and Monetization solutions. We expect our gross profit as a percentage of revenue, or gross margin, to fluctuate from period to period. Cost of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2024 decreased, compared to the comparable prior year period, primarily due to a decrease in amortization expenses related to intangible assets acquired through our business combinations, which includes $105 million of incremental expenses in the fourth quarter of 2023 from fully amortizing intangible assets related to the Wt FX Limited contract that was terminated, a decrease in personnel costs, driven by our reductions in headcount, and a decrease in our hosting expenses in line with decreases in related revenue. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses. The most significant component of our operating expenses is personnel-related costs, including salaries and wages, sales commissions, bonuses, benefits, stock-based compensation, and payroll taxes. 45 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. As part of our efforts to restructure and streamline our organizational structure, in 2023 we began workforce reductions, and began to reduce our number of corporate offices. We incurred restructuring and reorganization expenses of approximately $70 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, of which $52 million related to reductions in our workforce, largely within research and development expense, and $18 million related to our intent to exit certain leased facilities, primarily impairment charges on operating lease assets in general and administrative expense. Further, in January 2024, we committed to a plan to eliminate approximately 25% of our workforce, and we mutually agreed to the departure of the founders of ironSource Ltd. Following these announcements and substantially in the first quarter of 2024, we incurred incremental employee separation costs of approximately $214 million in the year ended December 31, 2024, largely driven by the acceleration and modification of equity awards, including $15 million within cost of revenue, $48 million within research and development expense, $58 million within sales and marketing expense, and $93 million within general and administrative expense. In addition, we incurred approximately $53 million of non-employee charges associated with this restructuring in 2024, largely within research and development expense. Research and Development Research and development expenses primarily consist of personnel-related costs for the design and development of our platform, IT hosting and SaaS expenses, and amortization expenses related to intangible assets. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars in the long term, as we expand our teams to develop new solutions, expand features and functionality with existing solutions, and enter new markets, but decrease in the short term as we reset our Strategic Portfolio. We expect research and development expenses to fluctuate as a percentage of revenue from period to period. Research and development expense for the year ended December 31, 2024 decreased, compared to the comparable prior year period, primarily due to a decrease in personnel costs driven by our reductions in headcount in the first quarter of 2024. Sales and Marketing Our sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs, amortization expenses related to intangible assets, and advertising and marketing programs, including user acquisition costs and digital account-based marketing, user events such as developer-centric conferences and our annual Unite user conferences. We expect that our sales and marketing expense will increase in absolute dollars in the long term, as we hire additional personnel, increase our account-based marketing, direct marketing and community outreach activities, invest in additional tools and technologies, and continue to build brand awareness, but decrease in the short term as we reset our Strategic Portfolio. We expect sales and marketing expenses to fluctuate as a percentage of revenue from period to period. Sales and marketing expense for the year ended December 31, 2024 decreased, compared to the comparable prior year period, primarily due to a decrease in personnel costs, driven by our reductions in headcount in the first quarter of 2024, and a decrease in amortization expenses related to intangible assets. General and Administrative Our general and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel-related costs for finance, legal, human resources, IT and administrative employees; allocated overhead, and professional fees for external legal, accounting, and other professional services. We expect that our general and administrative expenses will increase in absolute dollars in the long term, as we scale to support the growth of our business but decrease in the short term as we reset our Strategic Portfolio. We expect general and administrative expenses to fluctuate as a percentage of revenue from period to period. General and administrative expense for the year ended December 31, 2024 increased, compared to the comparable prior year period, primarily due to higher personnel-related costs, driven by employee separation costs in the first quarter of 2024. 46 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. Interest Expense Interest expense consists primarily of interest expense associated with our convertible debt and amortization of debt issuance costs. Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2024 decreased, compared to the comparable prior year period, in line with our outstanding debt obligations. Interest Income and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest income and other income (expense), net, consists primarily of gains on the repurchase of convertible debt, interest income earned on our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, and foreign currency gains and losses. As we have expanded our global operations, our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currencies has increased, and we expect this to continue. Interest income and other income (expense), net, for the year ended December 31, 2024 increased, compared to the comparable prior year period, primarily due to gains on the repurchase of convertible debt of $61.4 million in the first quarter of 2024. Provision for (benefit from) Income taxes Provision for (benefit from) income taxes consists primarily of income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions where we conduct business. We have a valuation allowance against certain of our deferred tax assets, including NOL carryforwards and tax credits related primarily to research and development. Our overall effective income tax rate in future periods may be affected by the geographic mix of earnings in the countries in which we operate. Our future effective tax rate may also be affected by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles in the jurisdictions in which we conduct business. See Note 13, "Income Taxes," of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The benefit from income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2024 changed as compared to the provision for income taxes in the comparable prior year period, primarily due to a tax benefit from our foreign losses in connection with employee separation costs recorded in the first quarter of 2024 and our continued restructuring efforts in the first quarter of 2024 that enhanced our ability to offset deferred tax liabilities in the U.S. in future periods, thereby partially reducing the need for a valuation allowance. Non-GAAP Financial Measures To supplement our consolidated financial statements prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP, we use certain non-GAAP financial measures, as described below, to evaluate our ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes. We believe the following non-GAAP measures are useful in evaluating our operating performance. We are presenting these non-GAAP financial measures because we believe, when taken collectively, they may be helpful to investors because they provide consistency and comparability with past financial performance. However, non-GAAP financial measures have limitations in their usefulness to investors because they have no standardized meaning prescribed by GAAP and are not prepared under any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate similarly-titled non-GAAP financial measures differently or may use other measures to evaluate their performance, all of which could reduce the usefulness of our non-GAAP financial measures as tools for comparison. As a result, our non-GAAP financial measures are presented for supplemental informational purposes only and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for our consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted Gross Profit and Adjusted EBITDA We define adjusted gross profit as GAAP gross profit excluding expenses associated with stock-based compensation, amortization of acquired intangible assets, depreciation, and restructurings and reorganizations. We define adjusted gross margin as adjusted gross profit as a percentage of revenue. We define adjusted EBITDA as net income or loss excluding benefits or expenses associated with stock- 47 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. based compensation, amortization of acquired intangible assets, depreciation, acquisitions, restructurings and reorganizations, insurance reimbursement for legal expenses, interest, income tax, and other non-operating activities, which primarily consist of foreign exchange rate gains or losses. We use adjusted gross profit and adjusted EBITDA in conjunction with traditional GAAP measures to evaluate our financial performance. We believe that adjusted gross profit and adjusted EBITDA provide our management and investors consistency and comparability with our past financial performance and facilitates period-to-period comparisons of operations, as these metrics exclude expenses that we do not consider to be indicative of our overall operating performance. Adjusted gross profit and adjusted EBITDA have limitations as analytical tools, and you should not consider them in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are: they exclude expense associated with our equity compensation plans, although equity compensation has been, and will continue to be, an important part of our compensation strategy; adjusted gross profit and adjusted EBITDA excludes the expense of amortization of acquired intangible assets and depreciation of property and equipment, and although these are non-cash expenses, the assets being amortized may have to be replaced in the future and adjusted gross profit and adjusted EBITDA does not reflect cash expenditure for such replacements; adjusted EBITDA excludes costs incurred from our acquisitions; adjusted gross profit and adjusted EBITDA excludes costs incurred from restructuring activities; adjusted EBITDA excludes costs incurred from legal settlements that we anticipate recovering through insurance, and subsequent recoveries of those amounts; the expenses and other items that we exclude in our calculation of adjusted gross profit and adjusted EBITDA may differ from the expenses and other items, if any, that other companies may exclude from this measure or similarly titled measures, which reduces their usefulness as comparative measures. The following table presents a reconciliation of our adjusted gross profit to our GAAP gross profit, the most directly comparable measure as determined in accordance with GAAP, for the periods presented (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 GAAP gross profit $ 1,332,402 $ 1,453,595 Add: Stock-based compensation expense 43,566 80,213 Amortization of intangible assets expense 108,580 243,690 Depreciation expense 9,613 10,480 Restructuring and reorganization costs 15,154 13,510 Adjusted gross profit $ 1,509,315 $ 1,801,488 GAAP gross margin 73 % 66 % Adjusted gross margin 83 % 82 % 48 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. The following table presents a reconciliation of our adjusted EBITDA to net loss, the most directly comparable measure as determined in accordance with GAAP, for the periods presented (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 GAAP net loss $ (664,287) $ (826,322) Stock-based compensation expense 469,128 648,696 Amortization of intangible assets expense 353,371 515,489 Depreciation expense 55,609 48,427 Acquisition-related costs 888 Restructuring and reorganization costs 266,855 70,373 Insurance reimbursement for legal settlement (3,250) Interest expense 23,542 24,580 Interest income and other income (expense), net (111,558) (59,529) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes (2,846) 28,477 Adjusted EBITDA $ 389,814 $ 447,829 Free Cash Flow We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less cash used for purchases of property and equipment. We believe that free cash flow is a useful indicator of liquidity as it measures our ability to generate cash, or our need to access additional sources of cash, to fund operations and investments. Free cash flow has limitations as an analytical tool, and you should not consider it in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are: it is not a substitute for net cash provided by operating activities; other companies may calculate free cash flow or similarly titled non-GAAP measures differently or may use other measures to evaluate their performance, all of which could reduce the usefulness of free cash flow as a tool for comparison; and the utility of free cash flow is further limited as it does not reflect our future contractual commitments and does not represent the total increase or decrease in our cash balance for any given period. The following table presents a reconciliation of free cash flow to net cash provided by operating activities, the most directly comparable measure as determined in accordance with GAAP, for the periods presented (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 315,553 $ 234,700 Less: Purchases of property and equipment (29,549) (55,921) Free cash flow $ 286,004 $ 178,779 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (42,409) $ 44,040 Net cash used in financing activities $ (338,307) $ (174,015) 49 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2024, our principal sources of liquidity were cash and cash equivalents totaling $1.5 billion, which were primarily held for working capital purposes. Our cash equivalents are invested primarily in government money market funds and time deposits. Our material cash requirements from known contractual and other obligations consist of our convertible notes, obligations under operating leases for office space, and contractual obligations for hosting services to support our business operations. See Item 8 of Part II, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 10 Commitments and Contingencies" for additional discussion of our principal contractual commitments. In connection with the ironSource Merger in November 2022, we issued $1.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of the 2027 Notes, the proceeds of which were used to fund repurchases under our share repurchase program. We previously issued approximately $1.7 billion in aggregate principal amount of the 2026 Notes in November 2021, of which approximately $480 million in aggregate principal was repurchased in March 2024 for approximately $415 million. See Note 9, "Borrowings," for additional discussion of the Notes. In July 2022, our board of directors approved our share repurchase program, which authorized the repurchase of up to $2.5 billion of shares of our common stock in open market transactions, which expired in November 2024. Since our inception, we have generated losses from our operations as reflected in our accumulated deficit of $3.7 billion as of December 31, 2024. We expect to continue to incur operating losses on a GAAP basis for the foreseeable future due to the investments we will continue to make in research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative. As a result, we may require additional capital to execute our strategic initiatives to grow our business. We believe our existing sources of liquidity will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. We believe we will meet longer-term expected future cash requirements and obligations through a combination of cash flows from operating activities, available cash balances, and potential future equity or debt transactions. Our future capital requirements, however, will depend on many factors, including our growth rate; the timing and extent of spending to support our research and development efforts; capital expenditures to build out new facilities and purchase hardware and software; the expansion of sales and marketing activities; and our continued need to invest in our IT infrastructure to support our growth. In addition, we may enter into additional strategic partnerships as well as agreements to acquire or invest in complementary offerings, teams and technologies, including intellectual property rights, which could increase our cash requirements. As a result of these and other factors, we may choose or be required to seek additional equity or debt financing sooner than we currently anticipate. In addition, depending on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions, and other factors, we may also from time to time seek to retire or purchase our outstanding debt, including the Notes, through cash purchases and/or exchanges for equity securities, in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. If additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us, or at all, including as a result of macroeconomic conditions such as high interest rates, volatility in the capital markets and liquidity concerns at, or failures of, banks and other financial institutions. If we are unable to raise additional capital when required, or if we cannot expand our operations or otherwise capitalize on our business opportunities because we lack sufficient capital, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be adversely affected. 50 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. Our changes in cash flows were as follows (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 315,553 $ 234,700 $ (59,431) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (42,409) 44,040 723,228 Net cash used in financing activities (338,307) (174,015) (226,634) Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash (11,223) (6,146) 1,926 Net change in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ (76,386) $ 98,579 $ 439,089 Cash Provided by Operating Activities During the year ended December 31, 2024, net cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to a decrease in our net loss, adjusted for certain non-cash items, which include depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation, gain on convertible notes, impairments, and other, offset by a decrease in operating assets and liabilities. Our cash flows can fluctuate from period to period due to revenue seasonality, timing of billings, collections, and publisher payments, and historical cash flows are not necessarily indicative of our results in any future period. Cash Used in Investing Activities During the year ended December 31, 2024, net cash used in investing activities consisted primarily of purchases of property and equipment, and purchases of intangible assets. Cash Used in Financing Activities During the year ended December 31, 2024, net cash used in financing activities consisted of repayments of convertible notes, offset by the proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our employee equity plans. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Management's discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These principles require us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses, and related disclosures. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and our actual results, our future financial statements will be affected. The critical accounting estimates, assumptions and judgements that we believe have the most significant impact on our consolidated financial statements are described below. Revenue Recognition Subscriptions to our Create Solutions provide customers with software, embedded cloud functionality, and software updates. Significant judgment is required to determine the level of integration and interdependencies among the individual promises included in our Create Solutions subscriptions. This determination influences whether the software is a distinct and separate performance obligation that should be recognized at a point in time or whether the software should be combined with other promises and recognized over time. Given that the software and software updates are highly interdependent and interrelated, we have concluded that the two promises would be combined as a single performance obligation and recognized over time. We consider the embedded cloud functionality to be a separate performance obligation, however, its pattern of performance aligns with the software and software updates, which enables us to treat the subscription agreements as one performance obligation that is recognized ratably over the term of the agreement. 51 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. For advertisements placed through our Grow Solutions networks, we evaluate whether we are the principal, where revenue would be reported on a gross basis, or the agent, where revenue would be reported on a net basis. This evaluation of whether to present revenue on a gross or net basis requires significant judgment. We present revenue on a net basis for sales where we are facilitating the transaction between advertisers and publishers and do not have control over in-app placement. Alternatively, we present revenue on a gross basis for advertising sales where we are the publisher and have control of the in-app placement. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes and income tax assets and liabilities, including evaluating uncertainties in the application of accounting principles and complex tax laws. We use the asset and liability method under Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 740, Income Taxes, when accounting for income taxes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. Deferred tax expense or benefit is the result of changes in the deferred tax asset and liability. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the net amount that we believe is more likely than not to be realized. We consider all available evidence, both positive and negative, including historical levels of income, expectations and risks associated with estimates of future taxable income, and ongoing tax planning strategies in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. We recognize tax benefits from uncertain tax positions only if we believe that it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the position. Although we believe that we have adequately reserved for our uncertain tax positions (including net interest and penalties), we can provide no assurance that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be materially different. We make adjustments to these reserves in accordance with the income tax accounting guidance when facts and circumstances change, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts recorded, such differences will affect the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made and could have a material impact on our financial condition and operating results. We recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits within income tax expense in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations.