Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Please read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included under Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. When reviewing the discussion below, you should keep in mind the substantial risks and uncertainties that could impact our business. In particular, we encourage you to review the risks and uncertainties described in Part IIOther Information, Item 1A. Risk Factors included elsewhere in this report. These risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements contained in this report or implied by past results and trends. Forward-looking statements are statements that attempt to forecast or anticipate future developments in our business, financial condition or results of operations. See the section titled Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements in this report. These statements, like all statements in this report, speak only as of their date (unless another date is indicated), and we undertake no obligation to update or revise these statements in light of future developments. Overview Unity is the worlds leading platform for creating and operating interactive, real-time 3D ("RT3D") content. Our platform provides a comprehensive set of software solutions to create, run, and monetize interactive, real-time 2D and 3D content for mobile phones, tablets, PCs, consoles, and augmented and virtual reality devices. Our platform consists of two distinct, but connected and synergistic, sets of solutions: Create Solutions and Operate Solutions. Our Create Solutions are used by content creatorsdevelopers, artists, designers, engineers, and architectsto create interactive, real-time 2D and 3D content. Content can be created once and deployed to more than 20 platforms, including Windows, Mac, iOS, Android, PlayStation, Xbox, Nintendo Switch, and the leading augmented and virtual reality platforms, among others. Our Operate Solutions offer customers the ability to grow and engage their end-user base, as well as run and monetize their content with the goal of optimizing end-user acquisition and operational costs, while increasing the lifetime value of their end users. We launched our first game development engine in 2004, bringing together a set of tools, such as rendering, lighting, physics, sound, animation, and user interface, that were designed to address the challenges faced by most game developers. Prior to Unity, developers primarily created these tools individually and repetitively across different target platforms, which was an expensive and time-consuming process. Unity made game development easier and faster. In the three months ended March 31, 2021, we built upon our history of innovation by achieving a number of milestones that secured our position as the leading platform for creating and operating interactive, real-time 3D content including those identified below. Our new customers in the first quarter span a wide range of industries. We saw new customers in household appliances, automotive, healthcare, aerospace, and government as well as a multinational retailer. One such customer - VirtraMed - will standardize development on Unity for both existing and future products. VirtraMed allows surgeons, physicians, and medical educators to train in risk-free virtual environments and simulations for different diagnostic and therapeutic procedures. Fortune 50 DIY retailer to employ Unity RT3D. Each week over 300,000 Lowes employees serve over 20 million customers from over 2,000 locations in the United States and Canada. Lowes is a long-standing user of Unity technology, but this quarter, its Lowes Innovation Labs unit engaged with our Accelerate Solutions group to test the ability of RT3D to optimize workflows and processes for their associates. 24 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. KING released its first title built solely on Unity. In March 2021, the makers of the game Candy Crush, KING, released the latest in the Crash Bandicoot franchise, Crash Bandicoot on the Run, built entirely on Unity. As its first 3D mobile title, KINGs highly ambitious goals demanded that they be intentional about choosing a game engine. They chose Unity to bring a beloved franchise to mobile with console-quality graphics and playable on a broad array of devices. We aim to power the next generation of in-car experiences. We are collaborating with HERE Technologies to build the next generation of in-car experiences through embedded, automotive human machine interfaces with real-time 3D graphics capabilities. The collaboration aims to deliver a new range of high end, dynamic mapping and infotainment experiences such as autonomous driving, simulations, city planning and digital twin through a combination of automotive-grade map data and services with Unitys RT3D platform. We delivered on our commitment to game developers with the release of updated products and innovation. Following the product commitments made in Summer 2020, we continued to deliver on our promise of stability and ease of use with the 2020 Long Term Support version of the editor. Concurrently, we released the 2021.1 Tech Stream geared towards users who are early on in development with experimental versions of new and innovative features giving developers the freedom and flexibility to explore these new capabilities. We continue to invest in research and development and to pursue selective acquisitions and partnerships in order to enhance and expand our platform. Impact of COVID-19 While our total revenue, cash flows, and overall financial condition have not been adversely impacted to date, the COVID-19 pandemic has caused general business disruption worldwide beginning in January 2020. The full extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic, including any new strains or mutations, will directly or indirectly impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and cannot be accurately predicted. Although we may continue to experience a modest adverse impact on our sales of Create Solutions, our pipeline of customer opportunities for our Create Solutions was largely back to normal levels by the end of 2020, as well as our Strategic Partnerships. Additionally, we have seen an increase in demand for our portfolio of products and services within Operate Solutions following the implementation of shelter-in-place orders to mitigate the outbreak of COVID-19, which has resulted in higher levels of end-user engagement in Operate Solutions and an increase in revenue, along with a decrease in operating expense due to materially reduced travel and spending on events and facilities. However, this increased demand for our Operate Solutions and expense reduction will likely moderate over time, particularly as vaccines are becoming widely available, and as shelter-in-place orders and other related measures and community practices evolve. Further, as certain of our customers or partners experience downturns or uncertainty in their own business operations or revenue resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, they may decrease or delay their spending, request pricing concessions, or seek renegotiations of their contracts, any of which may result in decreased revenue for us. In addition, we may experience customer losses, due to factors including bankruptcy or our customers ceasing operations, which may result in an inability to collect receivables from these customers. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we are also requiring or have required substantially all of our employees to work remotely to minimize the risk of the virus to our employees and the communities in which we operate. We are currently planning for our employees to return to in-person offices later this year, however our plans may change if the number of COVID-19 cases rises where our offices are located, and we may take further actions as may be required by government authorities or that we determine are in the best interests of our employees, customers, and business partners. 25 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. The global impact of the COVID-19 pandemic continues to rapidly evolve, and we will continue to monitor the situation and the effects on our business and operations closely. We do not yet know the full extent of potential impacts on our business or operations or on the global economy as a whole, particularly as the COVID-19 pandemic persists. The rollout of vaccines and the reduction of COVID-19 cases globally could affect the seasonality of our business or boost global GDP growth, which could positively impact our business. However, the return of more in-person activities will result in an increase in our expenses and could result in a range of impacts to our customers, which could impact our business. Given the uncertainty, we cannot reasonably estimate the impact on our future results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition. For additional details, refer to the section titled Risk Factors. Key Metrics We monitor the following key metrics to help us evaluate the health of our business, identify trends affecting our growth, formulate goals and objectives, and make strategic decisions. Customers Contributing More Than $100,000 of Revenue We have a history of strong growth in our customer base. We focus on the number of customers that generated more than $100,000 of revenue in the trailing 12 months, as this segment of our customer base represents the majority of our revenue and revenue growth. We expect that trend to continue. We define a customer as an individual or entity that generated revenue during the measurement period. A single organization with multiple divisions, segments, or subsidiaries is generally counted as a single customer, even though we may enter into commercial agreements with multiple parties within that organization. We had 837 and 668 of such customers in the trailing 12 months as of March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, demonstrating our ability to grow our revenues with existing customers, and our strong and growing penetration of larger enterprises, including AAA gaming studios and large organizations in industries beyond gaming. While these customers represented the substantial majority of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, no one customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenue for either period. Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate Our ability to drive growth and generate incremental revenue depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and grow our relationships with our Create and Operate Solutions customers and to increase their use of our platform. We track our performance by measuring our dollar-based net expansion rate, which compares our Create and Operate Solutions revenue from the same set of customers across comparable periods, calculated on a trailing 12-month basis. Our dollar-based net expansion rate as of a period end is calculated as current period revenue divided by prior period revenue. Prior period revenue is the trailing 12-month revenue measured as of such prior period end and includes revenue from all customers that contributed revenue during such trailing 12-month period. Current period revenue is the trailing 12-month revenue from these same customers as of the current period end. Our dollar-based net expansion rate includes the effect of any customer renewals, expansion, contraction, and churn but excludes revenue from new customers in the current period. As of March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 Dollar-based net expansion rate 140 % 133 % Our dollar-based net expansion rate as of March 31, 2021 and 2020, was driven primarily by the sales of additional subscriptions and services to our existing Create Solutions customers, expanded usage among our existing Operate Solutions customers, and improvements in cross-selling our solutions to all of our customers. In the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, increased usage of Operate Solutions drove the improvement in our dollar-based net expansion rate. 26 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. The chart below illustrates our strong relationship with existing customers by presenting our dollar-based net expansion rate as of the end of each of the past eight quarters. Results of Operations The following table summarizes our historical consolidated statements of operations data for the periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 Revenue $ 234,772 $ 166,994 Cost of revenue 58,734 31,868 Gross profit 176,038 135,126 Operating expenses Research and development 154,015 81,751 Sales and marketing 69,793 43,259 General and administrative 63,132 37,553 Total operating expenses 286,940 162,563 Loss from operations (110,902) (27,437) Interest expense (115) (132) Interest income and other expense, net 1,565 1,856 Loss before provision for income taxes (109,452) (25,713) Provision for income taxes (1,992) 1,023 Net loss $ (107,460) $ (26,736) 27 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. The following table sets forth the components of our condensed consolidated statements of operations data as a percentage of revenue for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 25 19 Gross margin 75 81 Operating expenses Research and development 66 49 Sales and marketing 30 26 General and administrative 27 22 Total operating expenses 123 97 Loss from operations (47) (16) Interest expense Interest income and other expense, net 1 1 Loss before provision for income taxes (46) (15) Provision for income taxes (1) 1 Net loss (45) % (16) % Revenue We derive revenue from Create Solutions, Operate Solutions, and Strategic Partnerships and Other. Create Solutions We generate Create Solutions revenue primarily through the sale of subscription fee arrangements for the use of our products and related support services. We offer subscription plans at various price points and recognize revenue over a service period that generally ranges from one to three years. We typically bill our customers on a monthly, quarterly or annual basis, depending on the size of the contract. As a result of billing our customers in advance, we record deferred revenue, and a portion of the revenue we report in each period is attributable to the recognition of deferred revenue related to subscription and support agreements that we entered into during previous periods. We generate additional Create Solutions revenue from the sale of professional services to our subscription customers. These services primarily consist of consulting, integration, training and custom application and workflow development, and may be billed in advance or on a time and materials basis. Operate Solutions We generate Operate Solutions revenue through a combination of revenue-share and usage-based business models that we manage as a portfolio of products and services. 28 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. Our monetization products are primarily based on a revenue-share model. These products were introduced in 2014 as our first set of Operate Solutions products and currently account for a substantial majority of our Operate Solutions revenue. We recognize monetization revenue primarily when an end user installs an application after seeing an advertisement (contracted on a cost-per-install basis), and to a lesser extent when an advertisement starts (contracted on a cost-per-impression basis). Our revenue represents the amount we retain from the transaction we are facilitating through our Unified Auction. Actions by operating system platform providers or application stores such as Apple or Google may affect the manner in which we or our customers collect, use and share data from end-user devices. In June 2020, Apple announced plans to require applications using its mobile operating system, iOS, to affirmatively (on an opt-in basis) obtain an end users permission to track them across apps or websites owned by other companies or access their devices advertising identifier for advertising and advertising measurement purposes, as well as other restrictions. Apple implemented some of these changes in the fall of 2020 and announced others to come. In April 2021, Apple implemented its end user opt-in permission requirement. The exact timing and manner in which Apple's plans will be implemented and their effect on our revenue are not yet clear, but we expect these changes to adversely affect our revenue from our monetization products and potentially other Operate Solutions, and such impact could be material. We also provide cloud-based services to support the ongoing operation of games and applications. These include application hosting services, as well as end-user engagement tools and voice chat services. These services are generally sold based on usage and billed monthly in arrears. Some of our usage-based contracts include a minimum fixed-fee usage amount. We expect that our Operate Solutions beyond monetization, including cloud operations and hosting services, such as Multiplay, which we introduced in 2018, will grow as a percentage of our revenue in the long term as we further scale newer products and services and as we launch additional solutions for gaming customers as well as customers in other industries. Strategic Partnerships and Other We generate Strategic Partnerships revenue primarily from partnership contracts with hardware, operating system, device, game console, and other technology providers. Typically, we recognize revenue from these contracts as services are performed. These partnerships are typically multi-year software development arrangements with payments that are either made in advance on a quarterly basis or milestone-based. In addition, certain partners pay us royalties based on the sales of applications sold on their platform that incorporate or use our customized software. We generate Other revenue primarily from our share of sales from our Asset Store, a marketplace and scaled aggregator for software, content, and tools used in the creation of real-time interactive games and applications, and from our Verified Solutions Partners, which sell software and tools certified for quality and compatibility with our platform. 29 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. Our total revenue is summarized as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2021 2020 Amount % Create Solutions $ 70,387 $ 46,696 $ 23,691 51 % Operate Solutions 146,578 104,368 42,210 40 % Strategic Partnerships and Other 17,807 15,930 1,877 12 % Total revenue $ 234,772 $ 166,994 $ 67,778 41 % The increase in revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020 was substantially due to revenue growth among existing customers. Create Solutions revenue growth was largely attributable to an increase of new customers, as well as expansion of existing customers. Within Operate Solutions, the substantial majority of our revenue growth was driven by an increase in revenue per customer as customers increased their usage across our Operate portfolio of products and services, due in part to the higher levels of end-user engagement as a result of strong product and sales execution. Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit, and Gross Margin Cost of revenue consists primarily of hosting expenses, personnel costs (including salaries, benefits and stock-based compensation) for employees associated with our product support and professional services organizations, allocated overhead (including facilities, information technology ("IT"), and security costs), third party license fees, and credit card fees, as well as amortization of related capitalized software and depreciation of related property and equipment. Gross profit, or revenue less cost of revenue, has been and will continue to be affected by various factors, including our product mix, the costs associated with third-party hosting services, and the extent to which we expand and drive efficiencies in our hosting costs, professional services, and customer support organizations. We expect our gross profit to increase in absolute dollars, but we expect our gross profit as a percentage of revenue, or gross margin, to fluctuate from period to period. Our cost of revenue, gross profit, and gross margin are summarized as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2021 2020 Amount % Cost of revenue $ 58,734 $ 31,868 $ 26,866 84 % Gross profit $ 176,038 $ 135,126 $ 40,912 30 % Gross margin 75 % 81 % (6) % Cost of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2021 increased primarily due to an increase of $15.7 million in personnel-related expense driven by a $4.6 million increase in stock-based compensation expense primarily related to the satisfaction of the performance vesting condition on outstanding RSUs upon completion of our IPO, and an increase in headcount to support our Create Solutions and Strategic Partnerships. IT hosting expense also increased by $8.3 million to support growth in our Create and Operate Solutions. The year-over-year decline in gross margin decreased primarily due to an increase in personnel-related costs to support our Create Solutions and Strategic Partnerships, product mix of revenues, in addition to an increase in IT hosting expense to support growth in our Create and Operate Solutions. 30 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses. The most significant component of our operating expenses is personnel-related costs, including salaries and wages, sales commissions, bonuses, benefits, stock-based compensation, and payroll taxes. Research and Development Research and development expenses primarily consist of personnel-related costs for the design and development of our platform, third-party software services, professional services, and allocated overhead. We expense research and development expenses as they are incurred. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars and may fluctuate as a percentage of revenue from period to period as we expand our teams to develop new products, expand features and functionality with existing products, and enter new markets. Research and development expense is summarized as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2021 2020 Amount % Research and development $ 154,015 $ 81,751 $ 72,264 88 % Research and development expense for the three months ended March 31, 2021 increased primarily due to an increase of $63.0 million in personnel-related expenses driven by a $26.9 million increase in stock-based compensation expense primarily related to the satisfaction of the performance vesting condition on outstanding RSUs upon completion of our IPO and an increase in headcount to support continued product innovation. In addition, IT hosting expense increased by $7.6 million due to growing data and compute needs. Sales and Marketing Our sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs; advertising and marketing programs, including digital account-based marketing, user events such as developer-centric conferences and our annual Unite user conferences; and allocated overhead. We expect that our sales and marketing expense will increase in absolute dollars as we hire additional personnel, increase our account-based marketing, direct marketing and community outreach activities, invest in additional tools and technologies, and continue to build brand awareness. Our expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of revenue from period to period. Sales and marketing expense is summarized as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2021 2020 Amount % Sales and marketing $ 69,793 $ 43,259 $ 26,534 61 % Sales and marketing expense for the three months ended March 31, 2021 increased primarily due to an increase of $22.0 million in personnel-related expenses driven by a $10.2 million increase in stock-based compensation expense primarily related to the satisfaction of the performance vesting condition on outstanding RSUs upon completion of our IPO and an increase in headcount to support the growth of our sales and marketing teams. Advertisement expenditures on various social media platforms also increased $4.6 million. 31 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. General and Administrative Our general and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel-related costs for finance, legal, human resources, IT, and administrative employees; professional fees for external legal, accounting, and other professional services; and allocated overhead. We expect that our general and administrative expenses will increase in absolute dollars and may fluctuate as a percentage of revenue from period to period as we scale to support the growth of our business. General and administrative expense is summarized as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2021 2020 Amount % General and administrative $ 63,132 $ 37,553 $ 25,579 68 % General and administrative expense for the three months ended March 31, 2021 increased primarily due to an increase in personnel-related costs of $20.0 million, driven by a $15.3 million increase in stock-based compensation expense primarily related to the satisfaction of the performance vesting condition on outstanding RSUs upon completion of our IPO and an increase in headcount to support the growth of our finance, accounting, human resources, IT, and legal functions. In addition, IT expense increased $2.5 million due to an increase in enterprise application license costs. Interest Expense Interest expense consists primarily of interest expense associated with our Credit Agreement. Interest expense is summarized as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2021 2020 Amount % Interest expense $ (115) $ (132) $ 17 (13) % Interest expense and fees related to our undrawn credit facility were recognized in the three months ended March 31, 2021 on our undrawn credit facility. Interest Income and Other Expense, Net Interest income and other expense , net , consists primarily of interest income earned on our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, amortization of premium arising at acquisition of marketable securities, foreign currency remeasurement gains and losses, and foreign currency transaction gains and losses. As we have expanded our global operations, our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currencies has increased, and we expect this to continue. Interest income and other expense, net, is summarized as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2021 2020 Amount % Interest income and other expense, net $ 1,565 $ 1,856 $ (291) (16) % Interest income and other expense, net, for the three months ended March 31, 2021, decreased primarily due to foreign currency remeasurement losses. 32 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists primarily of income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions where we conduct business. As we have expanded our global operations, we have incurred increased foreign tax expense, and we expect this to continue. We have a valuation allowance against certain of our deferred tax assets, including net operating loss ("NOL") carryforwards and tax credits related primarily to research and development. Our overall effective income tax rate in future periods may be affected by the geographic mix of earnings in the countries in which we operate. Our future effective tax rate may also be affected by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles in the jurisdictions in which we conduct business. See Note 14, Income Taxes, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Provision for income taxes is summarized as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2021 2020 Amount % Provision for income taxes $ (1,992) $ 1,023 $ (3,015) (295) % Provision for income taxes decreased primarily due to the tax benefit from stock-based compensation activity in the three months ended March 31, 2021. Non-GAAP Financial Measures To supplement our consolidated financial statements prepared and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or GAAP, we use certain non-GAAP performance financial measures, as described below, to evaluate our ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes. We believe the following non-GAAP measures are useful in evaluating our operating performance. We are presenting these non-GAAP financial measures because we believe, when taken collectively, they may be helpful to investors because they provide consistency and comparability with past financial performance. In the future, we may also exclude non-recurring expenses and other expenses that do not reflect our overall operating results. However, non-GAAP financial measures have limitations in their usefulness to investors because they have no standardized meaning prescribed by GAAP and are not prepared under any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate similarly-titled non-GAAP financial measures differently or may use other measures to evaluate their performance, all of which could reduce the usefulness of our non-GAAP financial measures as tools for comparison. As a result, our non-GAAP financial measures are presented for supplemental informational purposes only and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for our consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP Gross Profit and Non-GAAP Loss from Operations We define non-GAAP gross profit as gross profit excluding stock-based compensation expense and employer tax related to employee stock transactions. We define non-GAAP loss from operations as loss from operations excluding stock-based compensation expense, employer tax related to employee stock transactions, and amortization expense of acquired intangible assets. We use non-GAAP gross profit and non-GAAP loss from operations in conjunction with traditional GAAP measures to evaluate our financial performance. We believe that non-GAAP gross profit and non-GAAP loss from operations provide our management and investors consistency and comparability with our past financial performance and facilitates period-to-period comparisons of operations, as these metrics excludes stock-based compensation expense, employer tax related to employee stock tra nsactions, and amortization expense of acquired intangible assets, which we do not consider to be indicative of our overall operating performance. 33 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. Non-GAAP gross profit and non-GAAP loss from operations have limitations as analytical tools, and you should not consider them in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are: they exclude expense associated with our equity compensation plan, although equity compensation has been, and will continue to be, an important part of our compensation strategy; non-GAAP loss from operations excludes the expense of amortization of acquired intangible assets, and although these are non-cash expenses, the assets being amortized may have to be replaced in the future and non-GAAP loss from operations does not reflect cash expenditure for such replacements; and the expenses and other items that we exclude in our calculation of non-GAAP gross profit and non-GAAP loss from operations may differ from the expenses and other items, if any, that other companies may exclude from this measure or similarly titled measures, which reduces their usefulness as comparative measures. The following table presents a reconciliation of our non-GAAP gross profit to our GAAP gross profit, the most directly comparable measure as determined in accordance with GAAP, for the periods presented (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 GAAP gross profit $ 176,038 $ 135,126 Add: Stock-based compensation expense 5,117 557 Employer tax related to employee stock transactions 2,761 9 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 183,916 $ 135,692 GAAP gross margin 75 % 81 % Non-GAAP gross margin 78 % 81 % The year-over-year decline in non-GAAP gross margin was primarily due to higher personnel-related costs to support our Create Solutions and Strategic Partnerships, product mix of revenues, and increased hosting costs to meet the demands and growth from our Operate Solutions business. The following table presents a reconciliation of our non-GAAP loss from operations to our GAAP loss from operations, the most directly comparable measure as determined in accordance with GAAP, for the periods presented (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 GAAP loss from operations $ (110,902) $ (27,437) Add: Stock-based compensation expense 66,561 9,691 Employer tax related to employee stock transactions 16,458 155 Amortization of intangible assets expense 4,459 4,144 Non-GAAP loss from operations $ (23,424) $ (13,447) The year-over-year increase in non-GAAP loss from operations was primarily due to higher personnel-related costs, driven by an increase in headcount across the entire company to support the growth in the business, as well as an increase in IT hosting costs to support growth in our Operate Solutions and our growing data and compute needs. 34 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. Non-GAAP Net Loss and Non-GAAP Net Loss per Share We define non-GAAP net loss and non-GAAP net loss per share as net loss and net loss per share excluding stock-based compensation expense, employer tax related to employee stock transactions, and amortization expense of acquired intangible assets, as well as the related tax effects of these items. Non-GAAP net loss per share also adds back expense relating to deemed dividends representing excess paid over initial issuance price to repurchase convertible preferred stock. We use non-GAAP net loss and non-GAAP net loss per share in conjunction with traditional GAAP measures to evaluate our financial performance. We believe that these non-GAAP measures provide our management and investors consistency and comparability with our past financial performance and facilitates period-to-period comparisons of operations. Non-GAAP net loss and non-GAAP net loss per share have limitations as analytical tools, and you should not consider them in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are: they exclude expense associated with our equity compensation plan, although equity compensation has been, and will continue to be, an important part of our compensation strategy; they exclude the expense of amortization of acquired intangible assets, and although these are non-cash expenses, the assets being amortized may have to be replaced in the future and non-GAAP loss from operations does not reflect cash expenditure for such replacements; as further described below, we must make certain assumptions in order to determine the income tax effect adjustment for non-GAAP net loss, which assumptions may not prove to be accurate; and the expenses and other items that we exclude in our calculation of non-GAAP net loss and non-GAAP net loss per share may differ from the expenses and other items, if any, that other companies may exclude from this measure or similarly titled measures, which reduces their usefulness as comparative measures. Income Tax Effects of Non-GAAP Adjustments We utilize a fixed projected tax rate in our computation of non-GAAP income tax effects to provide better consistency across interim reporting periods. In projecting this non-GAAP tax rate, we utilize a financial projection that excludes the direct impact of the non-GAAP adjustments described above, and eliminates the effects of non-recurring and period specific items which can vary in size and frequency. The projected rate considers other factors such as our current operating structure, existing tax positions in various jurisdictions, and key legislation in major jurisdictions where we operate. For the year ending December 31, 2021, we have determined the projected non-GAAP tax rate to be (22)%. We will periodically re-evaluate this tax rate, as necessary, for significant events, based on relevant tax law changes, material changes in the forecasted geographic earnings mix, and any significant acquisitions. 35 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. The following table presents a reconciliation of our non-GAAP net loss and non-GAAP net loss per share to our GAAP net loss and GAAP net loss per share, respectively, which are the most directly comparable measures as determined in accordance with GAAP, for the periods presented (in thousands, except per share data ): Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 GAAP net loss $ (107,460) $ (26,736) Add: Stock-based compensation expense 66,561 9,691 Employer tax related to employee stock transactions 16,458 155 Amortization of intangible assets expense 4,459 4,144 Income tax effect of non-GAAP adjustments (7,337) (821) Non-GAAP net loss $ (27,319) $ (13,567) GAAP net loss per share attributable to our common stockholders, basic and diluted $ (0.39) $ (0.21) Total impact on net loss per share, basic and diluted, from non-GAAP adjustments 0.29 0.10 Non-GAAP net loss per share attributable to our common stockholders, basic and diluted $ (0.10) $ (0.11) Weighted-average common shares used in GAAP net loss per share computation, basic and diluted 276,068 127,783 Weighted-average common shares used in non-GAAP net loss per share computation, basic and diluted 276,068 127,783 Free Cash Flow We define free cash flow as net cash used in operating activities less cash used for purchases of property and equipment. We believe that free cash flow is a useful indicator of liquidity as it measures our ability to generate cash, or our need to access additional sources of cash, to fund operations and investments. Free cash flow has limitations as an analytical tool, and you should not consider it in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are: it is not a substitute for net cash used in operating activities; other companies may calculate free cash flow or similarly titled non-GAAP measures differently or may use other measures to evaluate their performance, all of which could reduce the usefulness of free cash flow as a tool for comparison; and the utility of free cash flow is further limited as it does not reflect our future contractual commitments and does not represent the total increase or decrease in our cash balance for any given period. 36 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. The following table presents a reconciliation of free cash flow to net cash used in operating activities, the most directly comparable measure as determined in accordance with GAAP, for the periods presented (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 Net cash used in operating activities $ (88,882) $ (32,001) Less: Purchase of property and equipment (11,744) (7,566) Free cash flow $ (100,626) $ (39,567) Net cash used in investing activities $ (89,626) $ (7,891) Net cash provided by financing activities $ 22,624 $ 377,042 The year-over-year decrease in free cash flow was primarily due to the payment of the bonus for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2020, our net loss, higher payroll taxes on stock-based compensation, prepayments of software licenses, an increase in working capital as our business grows, and a one-time payment related to our real estate. Liquidity and Capital Resources Since inception, we have financed our operations primarily through the net proceeds we have received from the sales of our convertible preferred stock and common stock and through payments received from customers using our platform. As of March 31, 2021, our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities totaling $1,647.2 million, which were primarily held for working capital purposes. Since our inception, we have generated losses from our operations as reflected in our accumulated deficit of $906.5 million as of March 31, 2021. We expect to continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future due to the investments we will continue to make in research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative. As a result, we may require additional capital to execute our strategic initiatives to grow our business. We believe our existing sources of liquidity will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements, however, will depend on many factors, including our growth rate; the timing and extent of spending to support our research and development efforts; capital expenditures to build out new facilities and purchase hardware and software; the expansion of sales and marketing activities; and our continued need to invest in our IT infrastructure to support our growth. In addition, we may enter into additional strategic partnerships as well as agreements to acquire or invest in complementary products, teams and technologies, including intellectual property rights, which could increase our cash requirements. As a result of these and other factors, we may choose or be required to seek additional equity or debt financing sooner than we currently anticipate. If additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when required, or if we cannot expand our operations or otherwise capitalize on our business opportunities because we lack sufficient capital, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be adversely affected. 37 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. Our changes in cash flows were as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 Net cash used in operating activities $ (88,882) $ (32,001) Net cash used in investing activities (89,626) (7,891) Net cash provided by financing activities 22,624 377,042 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash 9 (72) Net change in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ (155,875) $ 337,078 Cash Used in Operating Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2021 , net cash used in operating activities was $88.9 million and was primarily due to the payment of the bonus for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2020, our net loss, higher payroll taxes on stock-based compensation, prepayments of software licenses, an increase in working capital as our business grows, and a one-time payment related to our real estate . A substantial portion of our accounts receivable balance comes from advertising partners and is offset by an accounts payable amount due to our publishers (Operate Solutions customers). However, the payment terms that we offer our advertising partners are generally shorter than the payment terms with our publishers (Operate Solutions customers). As such, our cash flows fluctuate from period to period due to revenue seasonality, timing of billings, collections, and publisher payments. Historical cash flows are not necessarily indicative of our results in any future period. Cash Used in Investing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2021 , net cash used in investing activities was $89.6 million, consisting of the purchase of marketable securities of $129.1 million, cash used in acquisitions of $24.8 million, and capital expenditures of $11.7 million partially offset by proceeds of $80.0 million from marketable security principal repayments and maturities. Cash Provided by Financing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2021, net cash provided by financing activities was $22.6 million and consisted solely of proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Contractual Obligations Th e following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of March 31, 2021 (in thousands): Payments Due by Period Total Less than 1 Year 13 Years 35 Years More than 5 Years Operating leases (1) $ 155,639 $ 22,941 $ 74,968 $ 16,180 $ 41,550 Purchase commitments (2) 128,980 22,925 90,430 15,625 Total (3) $ 284,619 $ 45,866 $ 165,398 $ 31,805 $ 41,550 (1) Operating lease obligations consist primarily of obligations for real estate. (2) The substantial majority of our purchase commitments are related to agreements with our data center hosting providers. (3) This table generally excludes amounts related to income tax liabilities for uncertain tax positions, since we cannot predict with reasonable reliability the timing of cash settlements to the respective taxing authorities. 38 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have not entered into any off-balance sheet arrangements and did not have any material holdings in variable interest entities as of March 31, 2021. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Management's discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported revenue generated and expenses incurred during the reporting periods. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities and the amount of revenue and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions, and any such differences may be material. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended March 31, 2021, as compared to those disclosed in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, filed with the SEC on March 5, 2021. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2, Summary of Accounting Pronouncements, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q.