Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Please read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included under Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements are statements that attempt to forecast or anticipate future developments in our business, financial condition, or results of operations. When reviewing the discussion below, you should keep in mind the substantial risks and uncertainties that could impact our business. In particular, we encourage you to review the risks and uncertainties described in "Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors" included elsewhere in this report. These risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements contained in this report or implied by past results and trends. Forward-looking statements, like all statements in this report, speak only as of their date (unless another date is indicated), and we undertake no obligation to update or revise these statements in light of future developments. See the section titled "Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factor Summary" in this report. Overview Unity is the world's leading platform for creating and growing interactive, real-time 3D ("RT3D") content and experiences. Our comprehensive set of software, including AI solutions, supports creators through the entire development lifecycle as they build, run, and grow immersive, real-time 2D and 3D content for mobile phones, tablets, PCs, consoles, and augmented and virtual reality devices. Our platform consists of two complementary sets of solutions: Create Solutions and Grow Solutions, which together comprise our strategic portfolio surrounding the Unity Engine, Cloud and Monetization. Impact of Macroeconomic Trends and Geopolitical Events Recent negative macroeconomic factors, such as inflation, high interest rates, and limited credit availability have and could further cause economic uncertainty and volatility, which could harm our business. Further, increased competition in the advertising market and ongoing restrictions related to the gaming industry in China have impacted our growth rates and may continue to do so. Ongoing geopolitical instability, particularly in Israel, where a significant portion of our Grow Solutions operations is located, may adversely affect our business. Recent Developments in Our Business Starting in the fourth quarter of 2023, we began to reset our product and service offerings to focus on our core businesses, which we refer to as our "Strategic Portfolio": the Unity Engine, Cloud, and Monetization, while narrowing our investments in new businesses to those most attractive, mainly industries beyond gaming. We also exited businesses where we do not believe that we can provide unique value to customers or generate a sound return to investors. Specifically, we have limited our Professional Services business to a few selected strategic engagements, we will shift our multiplayer business to orchestration and managed solutions, and we will stop the independent development of professional artistry tools, which we will instead integrate into the Unity Editor and AI tools. In the first quarter of 2024, we recognized approximately $34 million of revenue associated with these non-strategic portfolios and we expect that these amounts will decline throughout the remainder of 2024. In the first quarter of 2024, we substantially completed reductions to our workforce and our office footprint. This resulted in approximately $193 million in employee separation costs, primarily related to the acceleration and modifications of equity awards, and $19 million of non-employee charges associated with these reductions. In the second quarter of 2024, we announced the hiring of our permanent Chief Executive Officer and President, Matthew Bromberg. Our ability to successfully transition the Chief Executive Officer role and to retain Mr. Bromberg and other senior executives could impact our operations and our business. 15 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. Our ability to execute on these plans or execute them in a timely manner is critical to our success, and their timing and full impact on our future results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition are uncertain. For additional details, refer to the section titled "Risk Factors." Key Metrics As further discussed in Item 2 of Part I, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, we monitor the following key metrics to help us evaluate the health of our business, identify trends affecting our growth, formulate goals and objectives, and make strategic decisions. We have revised and restated these metrics to include inputs from our Strategic Portfolio only. Customers Contributing More Than $100,000 of Revenue We had 1,243 and 1,214 customers contributing more than $100,000 of revenue in the trailing 12 months as of March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. The year over year increase was largely a result of our core subscriptions growth. While these customers represented the substantial majority of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, no one customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenue for either period. Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate Our ability to drive growth and generate incremental revenue depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and grow our relationships with our Create and Grow Solutions customers and to increase their use of our platform. We track our performance by measuring our dollar-based net expansion rate, which compares our Create and Grow Solutions revenue, excluding Strategic Partnerships and Supersonic, from the same set of customers across comparable periods, calculated on a trailing 12-month basis. As of March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Dollar-based net expansion rate 101 % 102 % Our dollar-based net expansion rate as of March 31, 2024 and 2023, was driven primarily by the sales of additional subscriptions and services to our existing Create Solutions customers and cross-selling our solutions to all of our customers. The decrease in dollar-based net expansion rate, compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily attributable to Grow Solutions, due to increased competition in the advertising market. 16 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. The chart below illustrates that our dollar-based net expansion rate has been declining over the last year with a slight rebound in the fourth quarter of 2022 due to the ironSource Merger. Results of Operations The following table summarizes our historical consolidated statements of operations data for the periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Revenue $ 460,380 $ 500,361 Cost of revenue 144,387 161,964 Gross profit 315,993 338,397 Operating expenses Research and development 282,728 280,480 Sales and marketing 230,625 216,127 General and administrative 177,569 96,774 Total operating expenses 690,922 593,381 Loss from operations (374,929) (254,984) Interest expense (6,035) (6,129) Interest income and other income (expense), net 76,643 13,615 Loss before income taxes (304,321) (247,498) Provision for (benefit from) Income taxes (12,843) 6,205 Net loss (291,478) (253,703) 17 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. The following table sets forth the components of our condensed consolidated statements of operations data as a percentage of revenue for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 31 32 Gross profit 69 68 Operating expenses Research and development 61 56 Sales and marketing 50 43 General and administrative 39 19 Total operating expenses 150 118 Loss from operations (81) (51) Interest expense (1) (1) Interest income and other income (expense), net 16 3 Loss before income taxes (66) (49) Provision for (benefit from) Income taxes (3) 1 Net loss (63) % (50) % Revenue Create Solutions We generate Create Solutions revenue primarily through our suite of Create Solutions subscriptions inclusive of enterprise support, cloud and hosting services, and professional services. Our subscriptions provide customers access to technologies that allow them to edit, run, and iterate interactive, RT3D and 2D experiences that can be created once and deployed to a variety of platforms. Enhanced support services are provided to our enterprise customers and are sold separately from the Create Solutions subscriptions. Cloud and hosting services are provided to our customers to simplify and enhance the way our users access and harness our solutions. Professional services are provided to our customers and include consulting, platform integration, training, and custom application and workflow development. Grow Solutions We generate Grow Solutions revenue primarily through our monetization solutions and game publishing services. Our monetization solutions allow publishers, original equipment manufacturers, and mobile carriers to sell available advertising inventory on their mobile applications or hardware devices to advertisers for in-application or on-device placements. Our revenue represents the amount we retain from the transaction we are facilitating through our Unified Auction and mediation platform. Our game publishing services provide game developers with the infrastructure and expertise to launch their mobile games and manage their growth; this is achieved through marketability testing tools, live games management tools and game design support, and optimizing the implementation of the customers commercial model. Through these game publishing services, we generate revenue from in-app advertising in published games and in some cases, in app purchase revenue. 18 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. Our total revenue is summarized as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Create Solutions $ 163,670 $ 187,369 Grow Solutions 296,710 312,992 Total revenue $ 460,380 $ 500,361 Total revenue decreased in the three months ended March 31, 2024, compared to the comparable prior year period, primarily due to a decrease in Create Solutions revenue, driven by the termination of the subscription agreement with Wt FX Limited, and by a decrease in cloud and hosting services revenue from reduced usage of those offerings, partially offset by increases in core subscription revenue, which excludes Wt. The decrease in total revenue was further driven by a decrease in Grow Solutions revenue, which was negatively impacted by increased competition. Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit, and Gross Margin Cost of revenue consists primarily of personnel costs (including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation) for employees and subcontractors associated with our product support and professional services organizations, hosting expenses, the amortization of intangible assets, and depreciation of related property and equipment. Gross profit, or revenue less cost of revenue, has been and will continue to be affected by various factors, including our product mix, the costs associated with third-party hosting services and the extent to which we expand and drive efficiencies in our hosting costs, professional services, and customer support organizations. We expect our gross profit to increase in absolute dollars in the long term but decrease in the short term as a result of the reset of our product portfolio to focus on the Unity Engine and Monetization solutions. We expect our gross profit as a percentage of revenue, or gross margin, to fluctuate from period to period. Cost of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2024 decreased, compared to the comparable prior year period, primarily due to a decrease of approximately $7 million in amortization expenses related to the Wt FX Limited contract that was terminated in 2023, and a decrease in our hosting and professional service expenses in connection with our portfolio reset. Personnel costs were comparable period over period inclusive of employee separation costs in the first quarter of 2024. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses. The most significant component of our operating expenses is personnel-related costs, including salaries and wages, sales commissions, bonuses, benefits, stock-based compensation, and payroll taxes. In January 2024, we committed to a plan to eliminate approximately 25% of our workforce, and we mutually agreed to the departure of the founders of ironSource Ltd. Following these announcements, we incurred incremental employee separation costs of approximately $193 million in the first quarter of 2024, largely driven by the modification of equity awards, including $15 million within cost of revenue, $43 million within research and development expense, $47 million within sales and marketing expense, and $88 million within general and administrative expense. These personnel-related costs were the main driver of the increase in expenses period over period. In addition, we incurred $19 million of non-employee charges associated with this restructuring. Research and Development Research and development expenses primarily consist of personnel-related costs for the design and development of our platform, IT hosting and SaaS expenses, and amortization expenses related to intangible assets. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars in the long term, as we expand our teams to develop new solutions, expand features and functionality with existing solutions, and enter new markets, but decrease in the short term as a result of the reset of our 19 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. Strategic Portfolio. We expect research and development expenses to fluctuate as a percentage of revenue from period to period. Research and development expense for the three months ended March 31, 2024 increased, compared to the comparable prior year period, primarily due to personnel costs which were comparable period over period inclusive of employee separation costs in the first quarter of 2024. Sales and Marketing Our sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs, advertising and marketing programs, including user acquisition costs and digital account-based marketing, user events such as developer-centric conferences and our annual Unite user conferences, and amortization expenses related to intangible assets. We expect that our sales and marketing expense will increase in absolute dollars in the long term, as we hire additional personnel, increase our account-based marketing, direct marketing and community outreach activities, invest in additional tools and technologies, and continue to build brand awareness, but decrease in the short term as a result of the reset of our Strategic Portfolio. We expect sales and marketing expenses to fluctuate as a percentage of revenue from period to period. Sales and marketing expense for the three months ended March 31, 2024 increased, compared to the comparable prior year period, primarily due to higher personnel-related costs, driven by employee separation costs in the first quarter of 2024. General and Administrative Our general and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel-related costs for finance, legal, human resources, IT and administrative employees; allocated overhead, and professional fees for external legal, accounting and other professional services. We expect that our general and administrative expenses will increase in absolute dollars in the long term, as we scale to support the growth of our business but decrease in the short term as a result of the reset of our Strategic Portfolio. We expect general and administrative expenses to fluctuate as a percentage of revenue from period to period. General and administrative expense for the three months ended March 31, 2024 increased, compared to the comparable prior year period, primarily due to higher personnel-related costs, driven by employee separation costs in the first quarter of 2024. Interest Expense Interest expense consists primarily of interest expense associated with our convertible debt and amortization of debt issuance costs. Interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2024 decreased, compared to the comparable prior year period, due to a reduction in the amortization of debt issuance costs, driven by the repurchase of the 2026 notes. Interest Income and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest income and other income (expense), net, consists primarily of gains on the repurchase of convertible debt, interest income earned on our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, foreign currency gains and losses. As we have expanded our global operations, our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currencies has increased, and we expect this to continue. Interest income and other income (expense), net, for the three months ended March 31, 2024 increased, compared to the comparable prior year period, primarily due to a gain on the repurchase of convertible debt of $61.4 million in the first quarter of 2024. Provision for (benefit from) Income taxes Provision for (benefit from) income taxes consists primarily of income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions where we conduct business. We have a valuation allowance against certain of our deferred tax assets, including net operating loss ("NOL") carryforwards and tax credits related primarily to research 20 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. and development. Our overall effective income tax rate in future periods may be affected by the geographic mix of earnings in the countries in which we operate. Our future effective tax rate may also be affected by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles in the jurisdictions in which we conduct business. See Note 9, "Income Taxes," of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Provision for (benefit from) income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2024 increased, compared to the comparable prior year period, primarily due to a larger tax benefit from our continued restructuring efforts in the first quarter of 2024 that enhanced our ability to offset deferred tax liabilities in the U.S. in future periods, thereby partially reducing the need for a valuation allowance. Non-GAAP Financial Measures To supplement our consolidated financial statements prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP, we use certain non-GAAP financial measures, as described below, to evaluate our ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes. We believe the following non-GAAP measures are useful in evaluating our operating performance. We are presenting these non-GAAP financial measures because we believe, when taken collectively, they may be helpful to investors because they provide consistency and comparability with past financial performance. However, non-GAAP financial measures have limitations in their usefulness to investors because they have no standardized meaning prescribed by GAAP and are not prepared under any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate similarly-titled non-GAAP financial measures differently or may use other measures to evaluate their performance, all of which could reduce the usefulness of our non-GAAP financial measures as tools for comparison. As a result, our non-GAAP financial measures are presented for supplemental informational purposes only and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for our consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted Gross Profit and Adjusted EBITDA We define adjusted gross profit as GAAP gross profit excluding expenses associated with stock-based compensation, amortization of acquired intangible assets, depreciation, and restructurings and reorganizations. We define adjusted EBITDA as net income or loss excluding benefits or expenses associated with stock-based compensation, amortization of acquired intangible assets, depreciation, acquisitions, restructurings and reorganizations, interest, income tax, and other non-operating activities, which primarily consist of foreign exchange rate gains or losses. We use adjusted gross profit and adjusted EBITDA in conjunction with traditional GAAP measures to evaluate our financial performance. We believe that adjusted gross profit and adjusted EBITDA provide our management and investors consistency and comparability with our past financial performance and facilitates period-to-period comparisons of operations, as these metrics exclude expenses that we do not consider to be indicative of our overall operating performance. 21 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. The following table presents a reconciliation of our adjusted gross profit to our GAAP gross profit, the most directly comparable measure as determined in accordance with GAAP, for the periods presented (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 GAAP gross profit $ 315,993 $ 338,397 Add: Stock-based compensation expense 15,636 18,849 Amortization of intangible assets expense 26,997 34,265 Depreciation expense 2,744 2,364 Restructuring and reorganization costs 15,213 119 Adjusted gross profit $ 376,583 $ 393,994 GAAP gross margin 69 % 68 % Adjusted gross margin 82 % 79 % The following table presents a reconciliation of our adjusted EBITDA to net loss, the most directly comparable measure as determined in accordance with GAAP, for the periods presented (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 GAAP net loss $ (291,478) $ (253,703) Stock-based compensation expense 139,888 163,028 Amortization of intangible assets expense 87,957 97,920 Depreciation expense 13,853 11,640 Acquisition-related costs 729 Restructuring and reorganization costs 211,746 14,130 Interest expense 6,035 6,129 Interest income and other income (expense), net (76,643) (13,615) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes (12,843) 6,205 Adjusted EBITDA $ 78,515 $ 32,463 Free Cash Flow We define free cash flow as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities less cash used for purchases of property and equipment. We believe that free cash flow is a useful indicator of liquidity as it measures our ability to generate cash, or our need to access additional sources of cash, to fund operations and investments. 22 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. The following table presents a reconciliation of free cash flow to net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, the most directly comparable measure as determined in accordance with GAAP, for the periods presented (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Net cash used in operating activities $ (7,373) $ (5,099) Less: Purchases of property and equipment (7,190) (14,350) Free cash flow $ (14,563) $ (19,449) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (7,190) $ 88,111 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (389,001) $ 21,971 Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2024, our principal sources of liquidity were cash, and cash equivalents totaling $1.2 billion, which were primarily held for working capital purposes. Our cash equivalents are invested primarily in government money market funds. Our material cash requirements from known contractual and other obligations consists of our convertible notes, obligations under operating leases for office space, and contractual obligations for hosting services to support our business operations. See Part I, Item I, Note 7 "Commitments and Contingencies" for additional discussion of our principal contractual commitments. In connection with the ironSource Merger in November 2022, we issued $1.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of 2.0% convertible senior notes due 2027, the proceeds of which were used to fund repurchases under our share repurchase program. We previously issued $1.7 billion in aggregate principal amount of 0% convertible senior notes due 2026 in November 2021, of which $480 million in aggregate principal was repurchased in March 2024 for $415 million (together with the 2027 Notes, the "Notes"). See Part I, Item I, Note 6, "Borrowings" for additional discussion of the Notes. In July 2022, our board of directors approved our share repurchase program, which authorized the repurchase of up to $2.5 billion of shares of our common stock in open market transactions through November 2024 (the "Share Repurchase Program"). As of March 31, 2024, $750 million remains available for future share repurchases under this program. Since our inception, we have generated losses from our operations as reflected in our accumulated deficit of $3.4 billion as of March 31, 2024. We expect to continue to incur operating losses on a GAAP basis for the foreseeable future due to the investments we will continue to make in research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative. As a result, we may require additional capital to execute our strategic initiatives to grow our business. We believe our existing sources of liquidity will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. We believe we will meet longer-term expected future cash requirements and obligations through a combination of cash flows from operating activities, available cash balances, and potential future equity or debt transactions. Our future capital requirements, however, will depend on many factors, including our growth rate; the timing and extent of spending to support our research and development efforts; capital expenditures to build out new facilities and purchase hardware and software; the expansion of sales and marketing activities; and our continued need to invest in our IT infrastructure to support our growth. In addition, we may enter into additional strategic partnerships as well as agreements to acquire or invest in complementary offerings, teams and technologies, including intellectual property rights, which could increase our cash requirements. As a result of these and other factors, we may choose or be required to seek additional equity or debt financing sooner than we currently anticipate. In addition, depending on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, 23 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc. contractual restrictions, and other factors, we may also from time to time seek to retire or purchase our outstanding debt, including the Notes, through cash purchases and/or exchanges for equity securities, in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. If additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us, or at all, including as a result of macroeconomic conditions such as high interest rates, volatility in the capital markets and liquidity concerns at, or failures of, banks and other financial institutions. If we are unable to raise additional capital when required, or if we cannot expand our operations or otherwise capitalize on our business opportunities because we lack sufficient capital, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be adversely affected. Our changes in cash flows were as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Net cash used in operating activities $ (7,373) $ (5,099) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (7,190) 88,111 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (389,001) 21,971 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash (6,202) 3,151 Net change in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ (409,766) $ 108,134 Cash Used in Operating Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash used in operating activities was primarily due to an increase in working capital. Our cash flows fluctuate from period to period due to revenue seasonality, timing of billings, collections, and publisher payments. Historical cash flows are not necessarily indicative of our results in any future period. Cash Used in Investing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash used in investing activities consisted primarily of purchases of property and equipment. Cash Used in Financing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash used in financing activities consisted of repayments of convertible notes, offset by the proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our employee equity plans. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Management's discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These principles require us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses, and related disclosures. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and our actual results, our future financial statements will be affected. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates from those disclosed in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023, filed with the SEC on February 29, 2024. 24 Table of Contents Unity Software Inc.