ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The section entitled Managements Discussion and Analysis set forth below contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). These statements may generally be identified by the use of such words as expect, anticipate, believe, intend, plan, will, or shall, or the negative of those terms. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events. Forward-looking statements involve certain risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from those discussed in any such statement. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements include the risks described under the heading Risk Factors in Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and, elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q include, but are not limited to statements about the following: ( 1) our future success, (2) our research and development efforts, (3) our future operating results and cash flow, (4) our ability to compete, (5) the markets in which we operate, (6) our revenue, (7) cost of license revenue and cost of subscriptions and service revenue, (8) our selling and marketing costs, (9) our general and administrative costs, (10) our research and development expenses, (11) the effect of critical accounting policies, (12) the possibility that we may seek to take advantage of opportunities in the equity and capital markets, (13) our belief that our existing cash balances combined with our cash flow from operating activities will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months, (14) our focus on the continued development and enhancement of new product lines, including social media content aggregation platform and applications, and identification of new and emerging technology areas and discussions with channel partners for the sale and distribution of new product lines, (15) the effect of recent changes in tax laws on our financial statements, (16) our ability to successfully integrate recent acquisitions, and (17) the possibility that we may seek to take advantage of strategic acquisition or disposition opportunities. All forward-looking statements in this document are made as of the date hereof, based on information available to us as of the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement. This discussion and analysis of the financial statements and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, including the related notes thereto, contained elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q Unless noted otherwise, managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations pertain to our continuing operations. Certain amounts in prior years unaudited condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income (loss) have been reclassified to conform to current years financial statement presentation. Overview We were incorporated in the State of Delaware in August 1987. We were originally incorporated as Blyth Holdings, Inc. and our name was changed to Omnis Technology Corporation in September 1997. Effective December 1, 2000, we completed the acquisition of PickAx, Inc., a Delaware corporation (PickAx). Concurrent with the acquisition, we changed our name to Raining Data Corporation. On April 17, 2008, we changed our name to TigerLogic Corporation. Reference to we, our, us or the Company in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q means TigerLogic Corporation and our subsidiaries. On November 15, 2013, we completed the sale of our assets dedicated to the multidimensional database management system (MDMS) and related connectivity products known as the MDMS family of products, including D3, mvBase, mvEnterprise and the Pick connectivity products (the MDMS Business), and the related underlying enterprise resource planning (ERP) platform required to support the MDMS Business, to Rocket Software, Inc. (Rocket) for a total sale price of approximately $22 million (the Sale), of which approximately $19.8 million was received at closing and the remaining $2.2 million was released from escrow and received in November 2014. As a result of this divestiture, the historical results of the MDMS Business through the disposition date have been reclassified and presented as discontinued operations for the prior periods presented. Also, in connection with, and effective on, the closing of the Sale, we assigned to Rocket our Lease Agreement with The Irvine Company, dated November 9, 2004, as amended on December 7, 2009. The lease was for approximately 15,000 square feet of office space in Irvine, California and runs through October 2015. We believe the sale of the MDMS Business will allow us to better focus our resources, and provide the capital to accelerate the development, marketing and sales of our Postano and Omnis platforms. There can be no assurances that we will be able to fully replace the MDMS revenue with revenue from our retained or newly developed products quickly, or at all. During the quarter ended December 31, 2014, we wound down our Storycode services offering to focus our resources on the Postano and Omnis product lines. We do not expect any future revenues related to Storycode services. Products Our principal business consists of: 1) the design, development, sale, and support of Omnis rapid application development software; and 2) a social platform, primarily consisting of our Postano social media content aggregation and visualization platform. Our products allow customers to create and enhance flexible software applications for their own needs. Our Omnis software is a development platform that allows mobile centric developers the ability to build a software code once and quickly deploy an application cross-platform in any environment. Our Postano product is a real-time social media content aggregation, activation, and visualization platform. 11 Table of Contents We primarily sell our Omnis software products through established distribution channels consisting of original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), system integrators, specialized vertical application software developers and consulting organizations, as well as through our sales personnel. Our social media content aggregation platform is generally sold through our sales personnel, as well as through co-marketing arrangements with third parties. Outside the United States, we maintain direct sales offices in the United Kingdom, France, and Germany. Approximately 33% and 39% of our revenue from continuing operations came from sales through our offices located outside the United States for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2014, respectively. We generally license our Omnis software on a per-CPU, per-server, per-port or per-user basis. We generally license our hosted Postano platform on a time-based subscription basis. In addition to software products and hosted services, we provide continuing software maintenance and support and, to a limited extent, other professional services to our customers, including consulting and training services to help plan, analyze, implement and maintain application software based on our products. For each of the three and nine months ended December 31, 2014, and 2013, no single customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenue. In addition, one of the elements of our business strategy involves expansion through the acquisition of businesses, assets, products or technologies that allow us to complement our existing product offerings, expand our market coverage or enhance our technological capabilities. We continually evaluate and explore strategic opportunities as they arise, including business combination transactions, strategic partnerships, and the purchase or sale of assets, including tangible and intangible assets, such as our divestiture of the MDMS Business. TigerLogic Postano Postano is a real-time hosted social content aggregation, activation, and visualization platform, bringing together social media conversations and content streams from around the web to strengthen fan engagement. The Postano platform includes Postano Mobile, Postano Events, Postano Retail, Postano Social Hub, Postano Command Center, and the built-in Postano Monitoring dashboard capabilities. Postano aggregates social content across Twitter, Tumblr, Facebook, Instagram, Pinterest, and other social platforms. Within Postano, these content streams can be moderated, curated, analyzed, and then displayed in venues ranging from retail stores to stadiums, at events to increase brand awareness, on website social hubs to amplify engagement, and on hashtag campaign landing pages to create brand conversation and increase participation. Major Postano features include native mobile moderation apps for iPhone and Android, and advanced social visualizations built entirely with customizable HTML5 for content that can be displayed on every size screen from smartphones to the largest LED screen arrays. Postano is designed primarily for commercial use, with pricing based on a number of factors, including the type of Postano displayed, the number of Postano displays, features, display customization and support levels desired. In November 2014, we released version 2.6 of Postano that allows users to easily find and approve user-generated content across multiple social networks. Postano 2.6 also includes expanded team moderation options so that multiple team members can curate content at the same time, a new slideshow approval view, and an optimized experience for the iPad. This release also includes additional visualization formats, including highly animated visualizations for social voting and hashtag contests, and makes it easy to display and curate social content on screen with live video. Another addition to the 2.6 release is the integration of Phhhoto, a new social network that easily makes graphic interchange format files (GIFs) for iPhone and Android. Omnis Rapid Application Development Tools Our Omnis products support the full life cycle of software application development and are designed for rapid prototyping, development, and deployment of graphical user interface (GUI) client/server and web applications. The Omnis products - Omnis Studio and Omnis Classic - are object-oriented and component-based, providing the ability to deploy cross-platform applications on operating system platforms and database environments. Omnis Studios JavaScript Client platform enables developers to create and deploy highly interactive web and mobile enterprise applications for Android, iOS, BlackBerry, and Windows based devices, all from one code base. Omnis Studio 6.0 uses scripting compatible with HTML5 and CSS3 to enable support for all popular browsers and devices, including tablets, smartphones, desktops, and web-enabled TVs. Omnis-based applications are developed once and deployed to any device, on any platform, with no plug-in installation required. We recently released Omnis Studio 6.1 offering an advanced Omnis development environment with greater overall performance for building and deploying highly interactive enterprise web and mobile applications across multiple platforms and operating systems, including Android and iOS based devices. In addition to its support of representational state transfer (REST) based web services, Omnis Studio 6.1 includes a new 64-bit implementation, creating faster access for developers and end users to deployed Omnis web and mobile applications. Developers will also benefit from the latest enhancements to the feature-rich Omnis JavaScript Client technology which includes new native JavaScript components that firmly adapt to the familiar look and feel of the device on which they are running, resulting in a richer and more engaging mobile application experience for end users. 12 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses and disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition and accounting for goodwill and intangible assets. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We have identified the accounting policies below as the policies critical to our business operations and the understanding of our results of operations. We believe the following critical accounting policies and the related judgments and estimates affect the preparation of our consolidated financial statements: REVENUE RECOGNITION. Revenue attributable to an element in a customer arrangement is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fee is fixed or determinable, and collectability is probable. If, at the outset of the customer arrangement, we determine that the arrangement fee is not fixed or determinable, we defer the revenue and recognize the revenue when the arrangement fee becomes due and payable. We do not have price protection programs or conditional acceptance agreements, and sales of our products are made without right of return. For contracts with multiple software and software-related elements, we recognize revenue for the delivered elements, generally software licenses, using the residual value method when vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value exists for all undelivered elements, consisting primarily of post-contract customer support (PCS). PCS is recognized ratably over the support term. For our hosted software subscription arrangements, services revenue is recognized ratably over the subscription period. We also have services revenue consisting of consulting and training services that are either recognized as the services are performed or upon the completion of the services depending on the nature of the services. When subscription arrangements involve multiple elements that qualify as separate units of accounting, we allocate arrangement consideration to all deliverables based on the relative stand-alone selling price method in accordance with the selling price hierarchy, which includes: (i) VSOE if available; (ii) third-party evidence (TPE) if VSOE is not available; and (iii) best estimate of selling price (BESP) if neither VSOE nor TPE is available. Revenue allocated to each deliverable, limited to the amount not contingent on future performance, is then recognized when the basic revenue recognition criteria are met for the respective deliverables. When subscription arrangements involve multiple elements that do not qualify as separate units of accounting, the entire arrangement consideration is recognized over the subscription period. We determine whether VSOE can be established based on our historical pricing and discounting practices for the specific deliverable when sold separately. In determining VSOE, we require that a substantial majority of the selling prices fall within a reasonably narrow pricing range. We have established VSOE for our PCS included in our software arrangements, but have not yet been able to establish VSOE for our subscription or other services. When VSOE cannot be established for our subscription and other services, we apply judgment with respect to whether we can establish a selling price based on TPE. TPE is determined based on third party pricing practices for similar deliverables when sold separately. Generally, our pricing strategy differs from that of our peers and our offerings contain a significant level of differentiation such that the comparable pricing of services with similar functionality cannot be obtained. Furthermore, typically, we are unable to reliably determine what similar competitors services selling prices are on a stand-alone basis. As a result, we have not been able to establish selling prices based on TPE. When we are unable to establish a selling price for our subscription and other services using VSOE or TPE, we use BESP in our allocation of arrangement consideration. The objective of BESP is to determine the price at which we would transact a sale if the respective elements were sold on a stand-alone basis. We estimate BESP for services by considering multiple factors including, but not limited to, prices charged for similar offerings, market conditions, competitive landscape, costs of providing the services, and our overall pricing practices. We currently use BESP in order to allocate the selling price to our deliverables in multiple element subscription arrangements. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND GOODWILL. We have entered into certain acquisitions, and in the future may make further acquisitions. The application of the purchase method of accounting for business combinations requires the use of significant estimates and assumptions in the determination of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in order to properly allocate the purchase price consideration between depreciable assets, assumed liabilities, intangibles, and goodwill. Our estimates of the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired are based upon assumptions that we believe to be reasonable and include assistance from independent third-party appraisal firms. When equity instruments are issued as part of the purchase price consideration, we measure them at fair value as of the date of the acquisition. 13 Table of Contents We generally assess goodwill for potential impairments in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, or during the year if an event or other circumstance indicates that we may not be able to recover the carrying amount of the asset. In evaluating goodwill for impairment, we first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not (that is, a likelihood of more than 50 percent) that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If we conclude that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, then no further testing of the goodwill assigned to the reporting unit is required. However, if we conclude that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, we then perform a two-step goodwill impairment test to identify potential goodwill impairment and measure the amount of goodwill impairment to be recognized, if any. In the first step of the review process, we compare the estimated fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying value. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, no further analysis is needed. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, we proceed to the second step of the review process to calculate the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill in order to determine whether any impairment is required. We calculate the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill by allocating the estimated fair value of the reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination. If the carrying value of the reporting units goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of the goodwill, we recognize an impairment loss for that excess amount. In allocating the estimated fair value of the reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit, we use industry and market data, as well as knowledge of the industry and our past experiences. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit under the first step of the goodwill impairment test is judgmental in nature and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions could have a significant impact on whether or not an impairment charge is recognized and the magnitude of any such charge. We base our calculation of the estimated fair value of a reporting unit on multiple approaches: market approach under the guideline public company method, market approach under the market capitalization method, and income approach. For the income approach, we use internally developed discounted cash flow models that include, among others, the following assumptions: projections of revenues and expenses and related cash flows based on assumed long-term growth rates and demand trends; expected future investments to grow new units; and estimated discount rates. We base these assumptions on our historical data and experience, third-party appraisals, industry projections, micro and macro general economic condition projections, and our expectations. For purposes of our goodwill analysis, we consider ourselves a single reporting unit. Factors we consider to be important that would trigger an impairment review include the following: Significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results; Timing of our revenue, significant changes in the manner of use of the acquired assets or the strategy for the overall business; Significant negative industry or economic trends; Significant decline in our stock price for a sustained period; and Our market capitalization falling below our net book value for a sustained period. Given our single reporting unit structure, a key input in estimating of our reporting unit fair value is our stock price as reported by the NASDAQ Stock Market (NASDAQ) and our related market capitalization. During the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2014, our market capitalization fell below our net book value for an extended period of time. As a result, we conducted the first step of a goodwill impairment test as of December 31, 2014 with the assistance of an independent valuation consultant utilizing both a market capitalization approach, including an estimated control premium, as well as a discounted cash flow approach, with key assumptions including projected future cash flows and a risk-adjusted discount rate. Both approaches resulted in an estimated fair value of our reporting unit below net book value as of December 31, 2014. As such, we initiated the second step of the goodwill impairment test to measure the amount of impairment. We analyzed the fair value of certain assets including our developed technology, trade names, customer relationships, and property. Based on the work performed, we concluded that an impairment loss existed as of December 31, 2014. Accordingly, we recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge to fully write-off the book value of our goodwill in the amount of approximately $18.2 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2014. Also, prior to performing our second step in the goodwill impairment analysis, we assessed long-lived assets including property and equipment and intangible assets for impairment. Our conclusion was that such long-lived assets were not impaired as of December 31, 2014. 14 Table of Contents Intangible assets with finite useful life are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated period of economic benefit. Our intangible assets were acquired in connection with our acquisition of Storycode, Inc. in January 2013. We evaluate our intangible assets for impairment whenever events and change in circumstances occur which may warrant revised estimate of useful lives or recognition of an impairment loss. In connection with the wind down of the Storycode services as more fully explained in Note 4 to the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements above, we assigned all of the intellectual property rights related to the name Storycode and certain rights related thereto to two former employees. As a result, we wrote off the remaining net book value associated with this intangible asset in the amount of approximately $65,000 during the quarter ended December 31, 2014. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENT. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) , which provides guidance for revenue recognition. This ASU affects any entity that either enters into contracts with customers to transfer goods or services or enters into contracts for the transfer of non-financial assets. This ASU will supersede the revenue recognition requirements in Topic 605, Revenue Recognition, and most industry-specific guidance. This ASU also supersedes some cost guidance included in Subtopic 605-35, Revenue Recognition-Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts. The core principle of the guidance is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchanged for those goods or services. The new standard is effective for our fiscal year 2018. Early application is not permitted. The standard permits the use of either the retrospective or cumulative effect transition method. We are evaluating the effect that ASU 2014-09 will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. We have not yet selected a transition method nor have we determined the effect of the standard on our ongoing financial reporting. In April 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-08, Presentation of Financial Statements (Topic 205) and Property, Plant, and Equipment (Topic 360), which provides guidance for reporting discontinued operations and disclosures of disposals of components of an entity. This ASU affects an entity that has either a component that is disposed of or meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale. The core principle of the guidance is that a disposal of a component, or a group of components of an entity is required to be reported in discontinued operations if the disposal represents a strategic shift and has (or will have) a major effect on an entitys operations and financial results. This standard is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2014, including interim periods within that reporting period (our fiscal year 2016). We do not expect the adoption of this ASU to have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations. In August 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-15, Presentation of Financial Statements-Going Concern (Subtopic 205-40): Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entitys Ability to Continue as a Going Concern (ASU 2014-15). This ASU is intended to define managements responsibility to evaluate whether there is substantial doubt about an organizations ability to continue as a going concern and to provide related footnote disclosures. The amendments in this ASU are effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, with early adoption permitted. We are currently assessing the impact the adoption of this ASU will have on our ongoing financial reporting. Results of Operations The following table sets forth certain unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations data in total dollars, as a percentage of total net revenues and as a percentage change from the same periods in the prior year. Cost of license revenues and cost of subscriptions and service revenues are expressed as a percentage of the related revenues. This information should be read in conjunction with the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 15 Table of Contents Three Months Ended Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended Nine Months Ended December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Results % of Net Revenues Percent Change Results % of Net Revenues Results % of Net Revenues Percent Change Results % of Net Revenues (In thousands) (In thousands) (In thousands) (In thousands) Net revenues Licenses $ 515 27% -13% $ 591 41% $ 1,852 34% 0% $ 1,856 43% Subscriptions and services 1,398 73% 64% 851 59% 3,658 66% 48% 2,470 57% Total net revenues 1,913 100% 33% 1,442 100% 5,510 100% 27% 4,326 100% Operating expenses Cost of revenues: Cost of license revenues (as a % of license revenues) 19 4% 0% 19 3% 57 3% 0% 57 3% Cost of subscriptions and service revenues (as a % of subscriptions and service revenues) 289 21% 31% 221 26% 899 25% 59% 567 23% Selling and marketing 1,260 66% -22% 1,615 112% 4,679 85% 5% 4,459 103% Research and development 780 41% -34% 1,178 82% 3,009 55% -8% 3,267 76% General and administrative 1,729 90% 91% 903 63% 5,068 92% 49% 3,408 79% Impairment of goodwill 18,183 950% 100% NA 18,183 330% 100% NA Total operating expenses 22,260 1164% 466% 3,936 273% 31,895 579% 171% 11,758 272% Operating loss (20,347 ) -1064% 716% (2,494 ) -173% (26,385 ) -479% 255% (7,432 ) -172% Other income (expense)-net 33 2% -238% (24 ) -2% 40 1% -185% (47 ) -1% Loss before income taxes (20,314 ) -1062% 707% (2,518 ) -175% (26,345 ) -478% 252% (7,479 ) -173% Income tax provision (benefit) 78 4% -105% (1,720 ) -119% 108 2% -104% (2,678 ) -62% Net loss from continuing operations $ (20,392 ) -1066% 2455% $ (798 ) -55% $ (26,453 ) -480% 451% $ (4,801 ) -111% Revenue NET REVENUE. Net revenues include software licensing, hosted subscription services, post contract technical support, and professional services for our Omnis, Postano, and Storycode products and services. We generally license our Omnis software primarily on a per-CPU, per-server, per-port or per-user basis. Therefore, the addition of CPUs, servers, ports or users to existing systems increases our revenue from our installed base of licenses. Similarly, the reduction of CPUs, servers, ports or users from existing systems decreases our revenue from our installed base of customers. Our hosted Postano platform is generally sold on a time-based subscription basis and may additionally include professional services fees. Our Storycode digital publishing professional services were generally sold on a project basis. Effective December 1, 2014, we no longer provide Storycode professional services as a result of our decision to wind down this portion of our business. Historically, revenue from Storycode services has not been significant. The timing of orders and customer ordering patterns has resulted in fluctuations in revenue between quarters and year-to-year. Total revenue increased by approximately $0.5 million or 33% and $1.2 million or 27% for the three and nine-month periods ended December 31, 2014, respectively, when compared to the same periods in the prior year. License revenues from our Omnis software decreased by approximately $0.1 million or 13% for the three months ended December 31, 2014, but remained consistent for the nine months ended December 31, 2014, when compared to the same periods in the prior year. Subscriptions and services revenue for the three and nine-month periods ended December 31, 2014 increased by approximately $0.5 million or 64% and $1.2 million or 48%, respectively, when compared to the same periods in the prior year, primarily due to higher Postano subscription and services revenue. Along with developing upgrades to our Omnis software, we have been actively developing and marketing our Postano social media visualization platform. While we are committed to research and development efforts that are intended to allow us to penetrate new markets and generate new sources of revenue, such efforts may not result in additional products, services or revenue. We can give no assurances as to customer acceptance of any new products or services, or the ability of the current or any new products and services to generate revenue. There can be no assurance that we will be able to fully replace the revenue from the MDMS Business we sold in November 2013 with revenue from our retained or newly developed products quickly, or at all. 16 Table of Contents Operating Expenses COST OF LICENSE REVENUE. Cost of license revenue is comprised of direct costs associated with software license sales including software packaging, documentation, physical media costs, amortization of intangible assets, and royalties. Cost of license revenue remained consistent for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2014, respectively, when compared to the same periods in the prior year and comprised of amortization expense for the technology intangible assets acquired as part of the Storycode acquisition. COST OF SUBSCRIPTIONS AND SERVICE REVENUE. Cost of subscriptions and service revenue includes primarily data center hosting and personnel costs relating to hosting, consulting, technical support, professional and training services, and service royalties. Effective December 1, 2014, we no longer provide Storycode professional services as a result of our decision to wind down this portion of our business. Historically, cost of service revenue from Storycode services has not been significant. Cost of subscriptions and service revenue for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2014 increased by approximately $0.1 million or 31% and $0.3 million or 59%, respectively, from the same periods in the prior year mainly due to higher Postano personnel costs for new hires, and higher hosting costs related to increased Postano subscriptions, partially offset by a decrease in revenue sharing arrangement due to termination of that arrangement in the current fiscal year. SELLING AND MARKETING. Selling and marketing expense consists primarily of salaries, benefits, advertising, trade shows, travel and overhead costs for our sales and marketing personnel. Selling and marketing expense for the three months ended December 31, 2014 decreased by approximately $0.4 million or 22% when compared to the same period in the prior year mainly due to lower headcount, partially offset by higher commission expense. Selling and marketing expense for the nine months ended December 31, 2014 increased by approximately $0.2 million or 5% when compared to the same period in the prior year mainly due to higher marketing expense for our Postano product line, higher commission expense related to increased Postano sales, and higher travel related expense for Postano sales activities. We anticipate that selling and marketing costs related to our Postano product lines will continue to increase as we further develop the sales channels for these products, and as customer acceptance of these products increases. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT. Research and development expense consists primarily of salaries and other personnel-related expenses and overhead costs for engineering personnel, including employees in the United States and the United Kingdom and contractors in the United States. Research and development expense for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2014 decreased by approximately $0.4 million or 34% and $0.3 million or 8% when compared to the same periods in the prior year mainly due to lower headcount as we refocused on development efforts of our Postano and Omnis products. We believe that our future success will depend largely on strong development efforts with respect to both our existing and new products. These development efforts have resulted in updates and upgrades to existing Omnis products and the launch of new products including the Postano social media platform. New product updates and upgrades in our Omnis and Postano product lines are currently in progress and we expect to continue our research and development efforts in these product lines for the foreseeable future. GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE. General and administrative expense consists primarily of costs associated with our finance, human resources, legal and other administrative functions. These costs consist principally of salaries and other personnel-related expenses, professional fees, depreciation and overhead costs. General and administrative expense for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2014 increased by approximately $0.8 million or 91% and $1.7 million or 49%, respectively, when compared to the same periods in the prior year mainly due to higher legal and financial advisory services expense related to the evaluation of any proposed sale of our common stock by our largest stockholder, as well as the evaluation of other strategic alternatives available to the Company, and higher salary expense due to added headcount. IMPAIRMENT OF GOODWILL During the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2014, our market capitalization fell below our net book value for an extended period of time. As a result, we conducted the first step of a goodwill impairment test as of December 31, 2014 with the assistance of an independent valuation consultant utilizing both a market capitalization approach, including an estimated control premium, as well as a discounted cash flow approach, with key assumptions including projected future cash flows and a risk-adjusted discount rate. Both approaches resulted in an estimated fair value of our reporting unit below net book value as of December 31, 2014. As such, we initiated the second step of the goodwill impairment test to measure the amount of impairment. We analyzed the fair value of certain assets including our developed technology, trade names, customer relationships, and property. Based on the work performed, we concluded that an impairment loss existed as of December 31, 2014. Accordingly, we recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge to fully write-off the book value of our goodwill in the amount of approximately $18.2 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2014. Also, prior to performing our second step in the goodwill impairment analysis, we assessed long-lived assets including property and equipment and intangible assets for impairment. Our conclusion was that such long-lived assets were not impaired as of December 31, 2014. 17 Table of Contents OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)-NET: Other income (expense)-net consists primarily of interest income (expense) and gains and losses on foreign currency transactions and is not significant for any period presented. PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES. Our effective tax rate from continuing operations was (0.4)% and (0.4)% for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2014, respectively. Our effective tax rate from continuing operations was 68.3% and 35.8% for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2013, respectively. Our effective tax rate from discontinued operations was 31.4% and 33.3% for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2013, respectively. Our total effective tax rate was 19.8% and 29.9% for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2013, respectively. The provision for income taxes for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 reflected the income tax on net earnings from our foreign subsidiaries in France and Germany. In addition, we accrued additional expense of $51,000 related to a potential assessment from the German tax authorities in the three and nine-months ended December 31, 2014. Due to uncertainties surrounding the timing of realizing the benefits of the net operating loss carryforwards in the future, we continue to carry a full valuation allowance against net deferred tax assets related to our operations in the United States and United Kingdom. Realization of deferred tax assets depends upon future earnings, if any, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. Accordingly, we have offset our net deferred tax assets in our U.S. and UK subsidiaries, with a valuation allowance. The utilization of our net operating losses could be subject to substantial annual limitations as a result of certain future events, such as an acquisition or other significant events, which may be deemed as a change in ownership under the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and similar state provisions. The annual limitations could result in the expiration of net operating losses and tax credits before utilization. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately $12.8 million in cash, of which approximately $0.8 million was held by our foreign subsidiaries and, if repatriated, would not be subject to material tax consequences due to our net operating loss carry forwards. On November 15, 2013, we sold our MDMS Business assets to Rocket for a total sale price of approximately $22.0 million, the remaining $2.2 million of which was released from escrow in November 2014. We believe that our existing cash balances and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months. We are committed to research and development and marketing efforts that are intended to allow us to penetrate new markets and generate new sources of revenue and improve operating results. However, our research and development and marketing efforts have required, and will continue to require, cash outlays without the immediate or short-term receipt of related revenue. Our ability to meet our future expenditure requirements is dependent upon our future financial performance, and this will be affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, success in penetrating new markets, our ability to attract new customers, and achieving market acceptance of our new and existing products and services, the success of research and development efforts and other factors beyond our control. We had no material commitments for capital expenditures as of December 31, 2014. Net cash used in operating activities was approximately $7.6 million for the nine- month period ended December 31, 2014. Net cash used in operating activities was approximately $4.6 million for the nine-month period ended December 31, 2013. The increase in net cash used in operating activities for the nine-month period ended December 31, 2014 as compared to the same period in the prior year, was primarily due to higher marketing and professional services expenses relating to Postano and Omnis product lines, higher personnel costs for Postano due to additional hires, and higher legal and consulting expense for the evaluation of strategic alternatives available to us. Net cash used in investing activities for the nine-month period ended December 31, 2014 was approximately $0.3 million and was mainly due to the purchases of furniture and equipment related to the relocation of our headquarters in April 2014. Net cash provided from investing activities for the nine-month period ended December 31, 2013 was approximately $19.7 million and was mainly due to the proceeds received from the sale of our MDMS Business. Net cash provided from financing activities for the nine-month period ended December 31, 2014 was approximately $2.2 million and was mainly due to proceeds released from escrow from the sale of our MDMS Business in the prior year. Net cash provided from financing activities for the nine-month period ended December 31, 2013 was immaterial and related to proceeds from exercise of stock options and issuance of our common stock. There was no outstanding line of credit or other borrowings during the three or nine-month periods ended December 31, 2014 or 2013. 18 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2014, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in the SEC regulations, which have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues, or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. Non-GAAP Financial Information Adjusted EBITDA (as defined below) should not be construed as a substitute for net income (loss) determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Adjusted EBITDA excludes components that are significant in understanding and assessing our results of operations. Adjusted EBITDA does not represent funds available for managements discretionary use. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA is not a term defined by GAAP and as a result our measure of Adjusted EBITDA might not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. However, Adjusted EBITDA is used by management to evaluate, assess and benchmark our operational results and we believe that Adjusted EBITDA is relevant and useful information widely used by analysts, investors and other interested parties in our industry. Accordingly, we are disclosing this information to permit a more comprehensive analysis of our operating performance, and to provide an additional measure of performance. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net income (loss) with adjustments for depreciation and amortization, interest income (expense)-net, and income tax provision (benefit) plus adjustments for other income (expense)-net, non-cash stock-based compensation expense, and other non-recurring items such as income from discontinued operations, goodwill impairment charges and acquisition related costs. Our Adjusted EBITDA was negative $1.9 million for the three-month period ended December 31, 2014, as compared to negative $2.4 million for the three-month period ended September 30, 2014, and negative $2.1 million for the three-month period ended December 31, 2013. The improvement in Adjusted EBITDA was a result of lower sales and marketing expenses and also lower research and development expenses due to lower headcount, partially offset by higher general and administrative expenses due to higher legal and financial advisory services in the three-month period ended September 30, 2014 and prior year. Our Adjusted EBITDA was negative $7.4 million for the nine-month period ended December 31, 2014, as compared to negative $6.0 million for the same period in the prior year. The increase in negative Adjusted EBITDA was a result of higher operating expenses in the current period due mainly to higher personnel and marketing expenses as we expanded our sales and marketing efforts for Postano, and higher legal and financial advisory services expense relating to the evaluation of any proposed sale of our common stock by our largest stockholder, as well as the evaluation of other strategic alternatives available to us. The following table reconciles GAAP reported net income (loss) to Adjusted EBITDA: RECONCILIATION OF NET INCOME (LOSS) TO ADJUSTED EBITDA (In thousands) For the Three Months Ended For the Nine Months Ended December 31, September 30, December 31, December 31, 2014 2014 2013 2014 2013 Reported net income (loss) $ (20,392 ) $ (2,625 ) $ 6,397 $ (26,453 ) $ 3,981 Depreciation and amortization 138 65 48 261 143 Stock-based compensation 170 188 367 531 1,129 Interest expense-net 1 1 2 3 Other (income) expense-net (33 ) (41 ) 23 (42 ) 44 Income tax provision (benefit) 78 18 (1,720 ) 108 (2,678 ) Acquisition-related cost 209 Impairment of goodwill 18,183 18,183 Income from discontinued operations (7,195 ) (8,782 ) Adjusted EBITDA $ (1,856 ) $ (2,394 ) $ (2,079 ) $ (7,410 ) $ (5,951 ) 19 Table of Contents