ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The section entitled Managements Discussion and Analysis set forth below contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). These statements may generally be identified by the use of such words as expect, anticipate, believe, intend, plan, will, or shall, or the negative of those terms. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events. Forward-looking statements involve certain risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from those discussed in any such statement. Many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements, including the risks described in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, as supplemented or modified in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. The forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q include, but are not limited to statements about the following: (1) our future success, (2) our research and development efforts, (3) our future operating results and cash flow, (4) our ability to compete, (5) the markets in which we operate, (6) our revenue, (7) our cost of license revenue and cost of service revenue, (8) our selling and marketing costs, (9) our general and administrative costs, (10) our research and development expenses, (11) the effect of critical accounting policies, (12) our belief that our existing cash balances combined with our cash flow from operating activities will be sufficient to meet our operating and capital expenditure requirements for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2016, (13) the impact of litigation on our operating results, and (14) the effect of changes in tax laws on our financial statements. All forward-looking statements in this document are made as of the date hereof, based on information available to us as of the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement. This discussion and analysis of the financial statements and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, including the related notes thereto, contained elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015. Overview We were incorporated in the State of Delaware in August 1987. We were originally incorporated as Blyth Holdings, Inc. and our name was changed to Omnis Technology Corporation in September 1997. Effective December 1, 2000, we completed the acquisition of PickAx, Inc., a Delaware corporation (PickAx). Concurrent with the acquisition, we changed our name to Raining Data Corporation. On April 17, 2008, we changed our name to TigerLogic Corporation. Reference to we, our, us or the Company in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q means TigerLogic Corporation and our subsidiaries. Today, our business consists of the design, development, sale and support of Omnis, a rapid application development software platform, and Postano, a social media content aggregation and visualization platform. Products Our business consists of the design, development, sale and support of Omnis, a rapid application development software platform that allows application developers the ability to build a software code once and quickly deploy an application cross-platform in any environment, and Postano, a real-time social media content aggregation, activation, and visualization platform used by our customers for fan engagement. We primarily sell our Omnis software products through established distribution channels consisting of original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), system integrators, consulting organizations and specialized vertical application software developers, as well as through our sales personnel in the United States and Europe. We maintain direct sales offices in the United Kingdom, France and Germany, which are primarily focused on the sale of Omnis products. We generally license our Omnis software on a per-CPU, per-server, per-port or per-user basis. Postano is generally sold through our sales personnel located in the United States, as well as through co-marketing arrangements with third parties. We generally license our hosted Postano platform as a time-based subscription. In addition to software product sales and subscriptions, we provide continuing software maintenance, support and other professional services to our Omnis and Postano customers. Postano Postano is a real-time hosted social content aggregation, activation, and visualization platform, bringing together social media conversations and content streams from around the web to strengthen fan engagement. Postano aggregates social content from multiple sources including Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, Tumblr, Pinterest and others. Within Postano, these content streams can be moderated, curated, analyzed, and then displayed in venues ranging from retail stores to stadiums, at events to increase brand awareness, on website social hubs to amplify engagement, and on hashtag campaign landing pages to create brand conversation and increased participation. Major Postano features include native mobile moderation apps for iPhone and Android, and advanced social visualizations built entirely with customizable HTML5 for content that can be displayed on every size screen from smartphones to the largest LED screen arrays. Postano is designed primarily for commercial use, with pricing based on a number of factors, including the type and number of Postano visualizations displayed, and the specific features, display customization and support levels desired. Omnis Our Omnis products support the full life cycle of software application development and are designed for rapid prototyping, development, and deployment of graphical user interface (GUI) client/server and web applications. The Omnis productsOmnis Studio and Omnis Classicare object-oriented and component-based, providing the ability to deploy applications across operating system platforms and database environments. Omnis Studios JavaScript Client platform enables developers to create and deploy highly interactive web and mobile enterprise applications for Android, iOS, BlackBerry, and Windows-based devices, all from one code base. Omnis Studio 6.0 uses scripting compatible with HTML5 and CSS3 to enable support for all popular browsers and devices, including tablets, smartphones, desktops, and web-enabled TVs. Omnis-based applications are developed once and deployed to any device, on any platform, with no plug-in installation required. 9 Table of Contents Omnis Studio 6.1 offers an advanced Omnis development environment with greater overall performance for building and deploying highly interactive enterprise web and mobile applications across multiple platforms and operating systems, including Android and iOS based devices. In addition to its support of representational state transfer (REST) based web services, Omnis Studio 6.1 includes a new 64-bit implementation, creating faster access for developers and end users to deployed Omnis web and mobile applications. Additional enhancements to the already feature-rich Omnis JavaScript Client technology include new native JavaScript components that firmly adapt to the familiar look and feel of the device on which they are running, resulting in a richer and more engaging mobile application experience for end users. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our critical accounting policies and estimates related to revenue recognition and goodwill and intangible assets are described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015. There have been no changes to our critical accounting policies since March 31, 2015. Recent Accounting Policies In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) , which provides guidance for revenue recognition. This ASU affects any entity that either enters into contracts with customers to transfer goods or services or enters into contracts for the transfer of non-financial assets. This ASU will supersede the revenue recognition requirements in Topic 605, Revenue Recognition, and most industry-specific guidance. This ASU also supersedes some cost guidance included in Subtopic 605-35 , Revenue Recognition-Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts . The core principle of the guidance is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The standard permits the use of either the retrospective or cumulative effect transition method. We are evaluating the effect that ASU No. 2014-09 will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. We have not yet selected a transition method nor have we determined the effect of the standard on our ongoing financial reporting. In July 2015, the FASB agreed to defer the effective date of this ASU for one year. The new standard is effective for our fiscal year 2019. In August 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-15, Presentation of Financial Statements-Going Concern (Subtopic 205-40): Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entitys Ability to Continue as a Going Concern (ASU 2014-15). This ASU is intended to define managements responsibility to evaluate whether there is substantial doubt about an organizations ability to continue as a going concern and to provide related footnote disclosures. The amendments in this ASU are effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, with early adoption permitted. We are evaluating the effect that ASU No. 2014-15 will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. 10 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth certain unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations data in total dollars, as a percentage of total net revenues and as a percentage change from the same periods in the prior year. Cost of license revenues and cost of subscriptions and service revenues are expressed as a percentage of the related revenues. This information should be read in conjunction with the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Three Months Ended Three Months Ended June 30, 2015 June 30, 2014 Results % of Net Revenues Percent Change Results % of Net Revenues (In thousands) (In thousands) Net revenues Licenses $ 398 25% -47% $ 745 42% Subscription 757 47% 101% 377 21% Services 445 28% -31% 647 37% Total net revenues 1,600 100% -10% 1,769 100% Operating expenses Cost of revenues: Cost of subscription revenues (as a % of subscription revenues) 134 18% -12% 152 20% Cost of service revenues (as a % of service revenues) 139 31% 16% 120 19% Selling and marketing 951 59% -50% 1,915 108% Research and development 595 37% -45% 1,086 61% General and administrative 1,352 85% -28% 1,887 107% Total operating expenses 3,171 198% -39% 5,160 292% Operating loss (1,571 ) -98% -54% (3,391 ) -192% Other expense-net (55 ) -3% 67% (33 ) -2% Loss before income taxes (1,626 ) -102% -53% (3,424 ) -194% Income tax provision -100% 12 1% Net loss $ (1,626 ) -102% -53% $ (3,436 ) -194% Revenue NET REVENUES. Net revenues include software licensing, hosted subscription services, post contract technical support, and professional services for our Omnis and Postano products and services. We generally sell our hosted Postano platform on a time-based subscription basis and offer our customers related professional services for additional fees. We license our Omnis software primarily on a per-CPU, per-server, per-port or per-user basis. Therefore, the addition of CPUs, servers, ports or users to existing systems increases our revenue from our installed base of licenses. Similarly, the reduction of CPUs, servers, ports or users from existing systems decreases our revenue from our installed base of customers. Total net revenues decreased by approximately $0.2 million, or 10%, for the three months ended June 30, 2015, when compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to a decrease in Omnis license revenue and services revenues for both Omnis and Postano. License revenues from our Omnis software decreased approximately $0.3 million, or 47%, due to a shift in timing of revenues from our installed base of Omnis customers in the quarter ended March 31, 2015, as well as fluctuations associated with our upgrade and update cycles. Service revenue decreased approximately $0.2 million, or 31%, mainly due the discontinuance of a discrete Postano services offering in the quarter ended December 31, 2014. However, subscriptions revenue from our Postano product increased by approximately $0.4 million, or 101%, when compared to the prior year. This increase was due to growth in number of new customers, subscription renewals, and an increase in the average size of subscriptions. Operating Expenses COST OF SUBSCRIPTION REVENUE. Cost of subscription revenue is comprised of direct costs for Postano subscriptions associated with data center hosting and personnel costs relating to platform access, web embed displays, social content analytic reports and phone support. Cost of subscription revenue decreased approximately $18,000, or 12%, for the three months ended June 30, 2015, when compared to the same period in the prior year. This decrease was due to savings in hosting cost resulted from bundled pricing obtained from our vendor. This decrease was partially offset by higher headcount in the current year. 11 Table of Contents COST OF SERVICE REVENUE. Cost of service revenue primarily includes personnel costs relating to consulting, professional and training services, and service royalties for our Omnis and Postano products. Cost of service revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2015 increased by approximately $19,000, or 16%, from the prior year due to higher professional cost associated with certain customer events. SELLING AND MARKETING. Selling and marketing expense consists primarily of salaries, benefits, advertising, trade shows, travel and overhead costs for our sales and marketing personnel. Selling and marketing expense for the three months ended June 30, 2015 decreased by approximately $1.0 million, or 50%, when compared to the same period in the prior year mainly due to lower headcount and lower marketing expense related to Omnis compared to the prior year. We anticipate that selling and marketing costs related to our Postano product lines will increase as we further develop the sales channels for these products and as customer acceptance of these products increases. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT. Research and development expense consists primarily of salaries and other personnel-related expenses and overhead costs for engineering personnel, including employees in the United States and the United Kingdom and contractors in the United States. Research and development expense for the three months ended June 30, 2015 decreased by approximately $0.5 million, or 45%, when compared to the prior year mainly due to lower headcount related to development efforts of our Postano and Omnis products. We believe that our future success will depend largely on strong development efforts with respect to both our existing and new products. These development efforts have resulted in updates and upgrades to existing Omnis products and the launch of new products including the Postano social media platform. New product updates and upgrades in our Omnis and Postano product lines are currently in progress and we expect to continue our research and development efforts in these product lines for the foreseeable future. GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE. General and administrative expense consists primarily of costs associated with our executive, finance, human resources, legal and other administrative functions. These costs consist principally of salaries and other personnel-related expenses, professional fees, depreciation and overhead costs. General and administrative expense for the three months ended June 30, 2015 decreased by approximately $0.5 million, or 28%, when compared to the same period in the prior year mainly due to lower legal, professional services, and financial advisory services related expenses. OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)-NET: Other income (expense)-net consists primarily of interest income (expense) and gains and losses on foreign currency transactions and is not significant for any period presented. PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES. Our effective tax rate from continuing operations was 0.0% and (0.3)% for the three months ended June 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The provision for income taxes for the three months ended June 30, 2015 and 2014 reflected the income tax on net earnings from foreign subsidiaries. During the year ended March 31, 2015, we recorded approximately $55,000 as a FIN 48 liability related to a potential assessment from the German tax authorities. The assessment of this matter has been finalized with the German tax authorities as of June 30, 2015. As such, this liability has been reduced to the agreed upon assessment amount of approximately $40,000. Due to uncertainties surrounding the timing and likelihood of realizing the benefits of the net operating loss carryforwards in the future, we continue to carry a full valuation allowance against net deferred tax assets related to our operations in the U.S. and UK. Realization of deferred tax assets depends upon future earnings, if any, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. Accordingly, we have offset our net deferred tax assets in our U.S. and UK subsidiaries, with a valuation allowance. The utilization of our net operating losses could be subject to substantial annual limitations as a result of certain future events, such as an acquisition or other significant events, which may be deemed as a change in ownership under the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and similar state provisions. The annual limitations could result in the expiration of net operating losses and tax credits before utilization. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of June 30, 2015, we had approximately $9.5 million in cash, of which approximately $0.4 million was held by our foreign subsidiaries and, if repatriated, would not be subject to material tax consequences due to our net operating loss carry forwards. We believe that our existing cash balances and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months. We are committed to research and development and marketing efforts that are intended to allow us to further penetrate our target markets and grow our revenues and improve operating results. However, our research and development and marketing efforts have required, and will continue to require, cash outlays without the immediate or short-term receipt of related revenue. Our ability to meet 12 Table of Contents our future expenditure requirements is dependent upon our future financial performance, and this will be affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, success in penetrating new markets, our ability to attract new customers, and achieving market acceptance of our new and existing products and services, the success of research and development efforts and other factors beyond our control. We had no material commitments for capital expenditures as of June 30, 2015. Net cash used in operating activities was approximately $0.9 million for the three months ended June 30, 2015. Net cash used in operating activities was approximately $3.0 million for the three months ended June 30, 2014. The decrease in net cash used in operating activities for the three months ended June 30, 2015 as compared to the same period in the prior year, was primarily due to lower net loss due to lower selling and marketing, general and administrative, and research and development expenses. Net cash used in investing activities was $0.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2015 mainly due to a payment made for a software license. Net cash used in investing activities was $0.2 million for the three months ended June 30, 2014, mainly due to purchases of furniture and equipment related to the relocation of our former headquarters in April 2014. There were no financing cash activities for the three months ended June 30, 2015. Net cash provided from financing activities for the three months ended June 30, 2014 was $12,000 related to proceeds from exercise of stock options of our common stock. There was no outstanding line of credit or other borrowings during the three-month periods ended June 30, 2015 or 2014. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of June 30, 2015 we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in the SEC regulations, which have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues, or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. Non-GAAP Financial Information Adjusted EBITDA (as defined below) should not be construed as a substitute for net income (loss) determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Adjusted EBITDA excludes components that are significant in understanding and assessing our results of operations. Adjusted EBITDA does not represent funds available for managements discretionary use. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA is not a term defined by GAAP and as a result our measure of Adjusted EBITDA might not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. However, Adjusted EBITDA is used by management to evaluate, assess and benchmark our operational results and we believe that Adjusted EBITDA is relevant and useful information widely used by analysts, investors and other interested parties in our industry. Accordingly, we are disclosing this information to permit a more comprehensive analysis of our operating performance, and to provide an additional measure of performance. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net income (loss) with adjustments for depreciation and amortization, interest income (expense)-net, and income tax provision (benefit) plus adjustments for other income (expense)-net, non-cash stock-based compensation expense, and other non-recurring items such as income from discontinued operations, goodwill impairment charges and acquisition related costs. Our Adjusted EBITDA was negative $1.4 million and negative $3.2 million for the three months ended June 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively, primarily a result of a smaller net loss driven primarily by lower operating expenses compared to the prior year. The following table reconciles GAAP reported net loss to Adjusted EBITDA: 13 Table of Contents RECONCILIATION OF NET LOSS TO ADJUSTED EBITDA (In thousands) For the Three Months Ended June 30, 2015 2014 Reported net loss $ (1,626 ) $ (3,436 ) Depreciation and amortization 71 58 Stock-based compensation 99 173 Interest expense-net 1 1 Other expense-net 54 32 Income tax provision 12 Adjusted EBITDA $ (1,401 ) $ (3,160 )