Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and elsewhere in this report and in our other public filings. In addition, if any of the following risks and uncertainties, or if any other risks and uncertainties, actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed substantially, potentially causing the market price of our stock to decline, perhaps significantly. The following section lists some, but not all, of these risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. IF OUR NEW PRODUCTS ARE NOT ACCEPTED IN THE MARKETPLACE, OR WE FAIL TO ENHANCE EXISTING PRODUCTS TO KEEP PACE WITH RAPIDLY CHANGING TECHNOLOGY, INDUSTRY STANDARDS AND CUSTOMER PREFERENCES, OUR REVENUE MAY DECLINE. We have devoted significant resources to the research and development of products and technologies. We believe that our future success will depend in large part on continued research and development efforts with respect to both our existing and new products, as well as the integration of newer technologies. We have made extensive efforts to leverage our core intellectual property to create new product lines, including our Postano social media visualization platform. There can be no assurance that these new products will be successful or generate significant revenue. The MDMS Business represented a significant portion of our historical revenues and there can be no assurances that we will be able to replace those revenues with revenues from our retained or newly developed products quickly, or at all. A large portion of the MDMS Business consisted of the sale of annual software maintenance and support services, which provided a historically relatively stable revenue stream. The lower sales volume of annual software maintenance and support services from our retained Omnis products, combined with our limited history and small installed base of our Postano products, may result in larger fluctuations in revenue. 6 Table of Contents The development of new or enhanced software products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation, as well as accurate anticipation of customer and technical trends. The development and introduction of new or enhanced products also requires us to manage the transition from older products in order to minimize disruptions in customer ordering patterns. Failure to develop and introduce new products or enhancements to existing products, in a timely and cost-effective manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements or lack of customer acceptance of our products, will materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will successfully integrate any acquired products and technologies, identify new product opportunities, develop and bring new products to market in a timely manner or achieve market acceptance of our products. OUR FAILURE TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY MAY HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR OPERATING RESULTS. The market for our products is highly competitive, diverse and subject to rapid change. Our products and services compete on the basis of the following key characteristics: performance; inter-operability; scalability; functionality; reliability; pricing; post-sale customer support; quality; compliance with industry standards; and overall total cost of ownership. The application development tools software market is rapidly changing and intensely competitive. Our Omnis products currently encounter competition from several direct competitors, including Microsoft, and competing development environments, including JAVA. Direct competitors of our Postano social media visualization platform include Facebook and Twitter, as well as numerous smaller companies in the emerging social media marketplace. Additionally, as we expand our business and integrate acquired products and technologies, we expect to compete with a different group of companies, including smaller, highly focused companies offering single products. The strong competition we face in the sales of our products and services, and general economic and business conditions, can put pressure on us to change our prices. If our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products or services, or develop products that the marketplace considers more valuable, we may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. Any such changes may reduce margins and could adversely affect our operating results and cash flow. Most of our competitors have significantly more financial, technical, marketing, and other resources than we do. As a result, these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies, evolving markets and changes in customer requirements, and may devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of their products. Our products and services could fall behind marketplace demands at any time. If we fail to address these competitive challenges, our business and operating results could suffer materially. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO ATTRACT NEW CUSTOMERS OR MAINTAIN AND GROW OUR SALES TO EXISTING CUSTOMERS, AND WE CANNOT ACCURATELY PREDICT THE IMPACT THAT OUR SALES EFFORTS MAY HAVE ON OUR FUTURE REVENUES AND OPERATING RESULTS. In order for us to improve our operating results and continue to grow our business, it is important that we continually attract new customers and that we maintain or grow our sales to existing customers. Sales to our existing customers may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, their satisfaction with our products and our customer support, the level of usage of our products, the pricing of our, or competing, software products and related services, and reductions in spending levels or changes in our customers anticipated usage of our products. Within the Postano business, we have limited historical data with respect to rates of customer renewals, so we may not accurately predict future renewal trends. We cannot assure you that our customers will renew their subscriptions, and if our customers do not renew their agreements or renew on less favorable terms, our revenues may grow more slowly than expected or decline and our revenues may be adversely impacted. To the extent we are successful in increasing our customer base, we could incur increased losses because costs associated with generating customer agreements and performing services are generally incurred up front, while revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the agreement. This risk is particularly applicable for those customers who choose to deploy our products in the public cloud. If new customers sign agreements with short initial subscription periods and do not renew their subscriptions, our operating results could be negatively impacted due to the upfront expenses associated with our sales and implementation efforts. Alternatively, to the extent we are unsuccessful in increasing our customer base, we could also incur increased losses as costs associated with marketing programs and new products intended to attract new customers would not be offset by future incremental revenues and cash flow. 7 Table of Contents In order for us to improve our operating results, it is important that our customers make additional significant purchases of our functionality and offerings. If our customers do not purchase additional functionality or offerings, our revenues may grow more slowly than expected. Additionally, increasing incremental sales to our current customer base may require increasingly sophisticated and costly sales efforts. There can be no assurance that these efforts would result in increased sales to existing customers, or upsells, and additional revenues. If our efforts to upsell to our customers are not successful, our business will suffer. BECAUSE WE GENERALLY RECOGNIZE REVENUES FROM SUBSCRIPTIONS FOR OUR POSTANO PRODUCTS RATABLY OVER THE TERM OF THE AGREEMENT, NEAR TERM CHANGES IN SALES MAY NOT BE REFLECTED IMMEDIATELY IN OUR OPERATING RESULTS. We generally recognize revenue from customer subscriptions for our Postano products ratably over the term of their agreements, which generally range from 1 to12 months. As a result, most of the revenues from our Postano products that we report in each quarter are derived from the recognition of deferred revenue relating to subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any one quarter is not likely to be reflected immediately in our revenue results for that quarter. Such declines, however, would negatively affect our revenues in future periods and the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our Postano products, and potential changes in our rate of renewals, may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our total revenues through additional sales in any period, as revenues from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. In most instances, our customers pre-pay the entire term of their multi period subscriptions up front. As a result, billings can fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. ADVERSE ECONOMIC CONDITIONS COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. Our operations and performance depend significantly on global economic conditions. If economic conditions become uncertain in key markets, including without limitation the United States and Western Europe where we derive a majority of our revenue, we may experience adverse impacts on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Unfavorable changes in economic conditions, including recession, rising inflation, diminished credit availability, declining valuation of investments or other changes in economic conditions may result in lower spending by our customers and could adversely affect our revenue. For example, current or potential customers may be unable to fund software purchases, potentially causing them to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products and services or to not pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products and services. Further, since we generally license our Omnis software on a per-CPU, per-server, per-port or per-user basis, any decrease in CPUs, servers, ports or users by our customers would result in a decrease in our revenue. Similarly, declines in subscription renewals or purchases of add-on products or services by our Postano customers would result in a decrease in our revenues. These and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and on our financial results. WE HAVE A HISTORY OF LOSSES AND WILL CONTINUE TO INCUR LOSSES IN THE IMMEDIATE FUTURE. We recorded net loss of approximately $28.7 million for the year ended March 31, 2015, including an $18.2 million goodwill impairment charge. Although we recorded net income of approximately $1.3 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, this income included $8.6 million of income related to our MDMS Business, which was sold on November 15, 2013. We had an accumulated deficit of approximately $139.1 million as of March 31, 2015. We expect that we will continue to incur losses in the immediate future for a number of reasons, including uncertainty as to: (i) the level of our future revenues; (ii) our efforts to monetize newer technologies and services we have developed, including Postano, and (iii) our efforts to integrate acquired products and technologies. Forecasting our revenues and profitability for our new business models is inherently uncertain and volatile. We will need to generate increases in our revenues to achieve and maintain profitability, particularly given the current small size of our business relative to costs associated with being a public company. If our revenue fails to grow or grows more slowly than we currently anticipate or our operating expenses exceed our expectations, our losses would increase which could harm our business and operating results. IF OUR COMMON STOCK IS DELISTED FROM THE NASDAQ CAPITAL MARKET, OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND STOCK PRICE COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED, THE LIQUIDITY OF OUR STOCK AND OUR ABILITY TO OBTAIN FINANCING COULD BE IMPAIRED, AND, WE MAY BECOME SUBJECT TO SHAREHOLDER CLAIMS. On October 7, 2014, we received a letter from the Listing Qualifications Department of NASDAQ notifying us that we were not in compliance with the requirement of NASDAQ Listing Rule 5550(a)(2) (the Listing Rule) for continued listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market as a result of the closing bid price for our common stock being below $1.00 for 30 consecutive business days. In accordance with the Listing Rule, we were given 180 calendar days, or until April 6, 2015, to regain compliance with the minimum 8 Table of Contents bid price requirement. We did not regain compliance by April 6, 2015 and as a result asked for an extension of an additional 180 days to regain compliance which was granted by NASDAQ, extending the deadline to regain compliance to October 5, 2015. In order to regain compliance, shares of our common stock must maintain a minimum closing bid price of at least $1.00 per share for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. No assurance can be given that we will regain compliance during the extension period or that we will be able to maintain continued compliance with the other listing requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market. As of the filing date of this annual report on Form 10-K, our stock continued to trade below the minimum $1.00 closing bid price. If we do not regain compliance with the Listing Rule during the extension period, the NASDAQ staff will provide notice that our common stock is subject to delisting from the NASDAQ Capital Market. In that event, we may appeal such determination to a hearings panel. Any delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Capital Market could adversely affect our ability to attract new investors, decrease the liquidity of our outstanding shares of common stock, reduce our flexibility to raise additional capital, reduce the price at which our common stock trades, and increase the transaction costs inherent in trading such shares with overall negative effects for our stockholders. In addition, delisting of our common stock could deter broker-dealers from making a market in or otherwise seeking or generating interest in our common stock, and might deter certain institutions and persons from investing in our securities at all. For these reasons and others, delisting could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to possible delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Capital Market, the sustained decrease in the trading price of our common stock may increase our exposure to the risk of securities class action lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert managements attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. OUR PRODUCTS SALES CYCLE VARIES MAKING FORECASTING OF REVENUE CHALLENGING. The sales cycle for our Postano social media visualization platform varies significantly and can range from one to six months or longer. Market adoption of newer social media platforms such as Postano is still at a relatively early stage as brands are discovering and learning how to leverage fan generated social content for marketing and customer engagement. Since we typically sell time-based subscriptions to the Postano platform, revenue is generally recognized ratably over the subscription term, which does not begin until customers activate their platform. In addition, the social media market is competitive, which can result in customers taking a significant period of time to evaluate multiple solutions before making purchasing decisions. As a result, a significant period of time may elapse between our research and development efforts and recognition of revenue, making it difficult to forecast revenue levels. The sales cycle for Omnis typically ranges from three to nine months or longer. Our products are typically used by application developers, system integrators and value added resellers to develop applications that are critical to their end users business. Because our products are often part of an end users larger business process, re-engineering initiative, or implementation of client/server or web-based computing, the end users frequently view the purchase of our products as part of a long-term strategic decision regarding the management of their workforce-related operations and expenditures. Thus, this sometimes results in end users taking a significant period of time to assess alternative solutions by competitors or to defer a purchase decision as a result of an unrelated strategic issue beyond our control. THE CONCENTRATION OF OUR STOCK OWNERSHIP GIVES CERTAIN STOCKHOLDERS SIGNIFICANT CONTROL OVER OUR BUSINESS. As of March 31, 2015, Astoria Capital Partners, L.P. (Astoria) beneficially owned approximately 48.1% of our outstanding common stock. Richard W. Koe, a member of our Board of Directors, serves as the President of Astoria Capital Management, a general partner of Astoria. This concentration of stock ownership allows Astoria to significantly influence any actions that require approval of our stockholders, including the election of members to our Board of Directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions. For example, in September and October 2014, our Board of Directors approved amendments to our Bylaws with respect to certain corporate governance matters at the request of, and upon receiving feedback from, Astoria. Moreover, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control. Astoria has announced that it is in the process of winding down and is working on identifying strategic block purchasers for its holdings of our common stock, but the timing and outcome of this process, as well as the impact of the process on our share price, remains uncertain. WE MAY EXPERIENCE QUARTERLY FLUCTUATIONS IN OPERATING RESULTS, RESULTING IN VOLATILITY OF OUR STOCK PRICE. We expect to continue to invest in research and development, sales and marketing, and operations in order to integrate acquired products and technology and to promote new product development and introduction. Because the expenses associated with these activities are relatively fixed in the short-term, we may be unable to timely adjust spending to offset any unexpected shortfall in revenue growth or any decrease in revenue levels. Operating results may also fluctuate due to factors such as: 9 Table of Contents the size and timing of customer orders; changes in pricing policies by us or our competitors; our ability to develop, introduce, and market new and enhanced versions of our products; changes in deferred revenue balances due to changes in the average duration of subscriptions of our Postano products; the success of our strategic partners in referring or reselling our products; the number, timing, and significance of product enhancements and new product announcements by our competitors; the demand for our products; non-renewal of customer support agreements; software defects and other product quality problems; and personnel changes. We operate without a significant backlog of orders. As a result, the quarterly sales and operating results in any given quarter are dependent, in large part, upon the volume and timing of orders booked, products shipped, subscription periods initiated, and professional services rendered during that quarter. Accordingly, we may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unanticipated decrease in orders, sales, subscriptions, or professional services. Therefore, any decline in demand for our products and services, in relation to the forecast for any given quarter, could materially and negatively impact the results of our operations. As a result, our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, potentially causing our stock price to be volatile. In addition, operating results in any given period should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. THE SUCCESS OF OUR BUSINESS DEPENDS IN PART UPON OUR ABILITY TO RECRUIT AND RETAIN KEY PERSONNEL AND MANAGEMENT. We believe that our future success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to recruit, hire, and retain highly skilled management and employees with experience in engineering, product management, business development, sales, marketing, and customer service. Competition for skilled executive leadership and personnel in the software and social media industry can be intense, and our efforts to recruit and retain these personnel may cause our compensation costs to increase, which could negatively impact our results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. If we are unable to do so, our human resources and staffing levels may be inadequate to develop and license our products, perform services for our customers or successfully manage our operations. In addition, we have in the past restructured or made other adjustments to our workforce in response to management changes, product changes, performance issues, acquisitions, and other internal and external considerations. Workforce restructurings could result in a temporary lack of focus and reduced productivity, which could negatively affect our revenues and operations. THE INABILITY TO PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY COULD HARM OUR ABILITY TO COMPETE. Our ability to compete successfully will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and operations without infringing upon the rights of others. We may fail to do so. We rely primarily on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, and contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. Our trademarks include TigerLogic, Postano, Omnis, and Omnis Studio, among others. We have one pending U.S. patent application related to Postano as of May 31, 2015. We have fifteen U.S. patents and two pending U.S. patent applications as of May 31, 2015 related to yolink, a former product offering of the Company. Although we have been issued various patents and other patent applications are currently pending, there can be no assurance that any of these patents or other proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that our rights will, in fact, provide competitive advantages to us. In addition, there can be no assurance that patents will be issued from pending applications or that claims allowed on any patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. Further, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. The outcome of any actions taken in these foreign countries may be different than if such actions were determined under the 10 Table of Contents laws of the United States. Although we are not dependent on any individual patents or group of patents for particular segments of the business for which we compete, if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights to the totality of the features (including aspects of products protected other than by patent rights) in a market, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the substantial expense, time, and effort required to create innovative products. In addition to trademark and copyright protections, we generally license our products to end users on a right to use basis pursuant to license agreements that restrict use of products to a specified number of users or a specified usage. We generally rely on click-wrap licenses that become effective when a customer downloads and installs software on its system or accesses and uses our software. In order to retain exclusive ownership rights to our software and technology, we generally provide our software in object code only, with contractual restrictions on copying, disclosure, and transferability. We generally sell time-based subscriptions to access our hosted Postano platform on a terms of service basis. We generally rely on click-through licenses that become effective when the subscription begins and to a lesser extent, master services agreements. We protect our Postano technology by controlling access to the hosted platform; without such access, any links to the platform, such as those in our Postano Social Hub offering, would not function. There can be no assurance that these protections will be adequate, that our license agreements will be enforceable in the United States or foreign jurisdictions or that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. A BREACH IN INFORMATION PRIVACY COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR OPERATIONS. The protection of our customer, employee and company data is critically important to us. We utilize customer data captured through our online activities. Our customers have a high expectation that we will adequately safeguard and protect their personal information. A significant breach of customer, employee or company data could damage our reputation and relationships with our customers and could result in lost revenues, fines and/or lawsuits. THIRD PARTIES COULD FILE CLAIMS ASSERTING THAT OUR SOFTWARE PRODUCTS OR SERVICES INFRINGE ON THEIR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS, RESULTING IN POTENTIALLY COSTLY LITIGATION, PRODUCT SHIPMENT DELAYS, PRODUCT LICENSING PROHIBITIONS OR REQUIREMENTS TO ENTER INTO ROYALTY OR LICENSING AGREEMENTS. There has been a substantial amount of litigation in the software and online services industry regarding intellectual property rights and there is significant uncertainty in our industry as many of the legal principles associated with software and online services continue to evolve rapidly. Third parties may file claims against us or our customers asserting that our current or potential future products or services, including our acquired products and technologies, infringe upon their intellectual property rights. Third parties on occasion have and may continue to assert that our products and technologies are subject to license requirements. We may be periodically involved in any number of ordinary course of business proceedings of this type. We expect that software product developers and providers of software applications, and online services will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products, services, and competitors in our industry segment grow and the functionality of products and services in different industry segments overlap. Because of the existence of a large number of patents in the software field, the secrecy of some pending patents, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is not economically practical or even possible to determine in advance whether a product or any of its components infringes or will infringe on the patent rights of others. The asserted claims and/or initiated litigation can include claims against us or our suppliers or customers, alleging infringement of their proprietary rights with respect to our existing or future products or components of those products. Regardless of the merit of these claims, they can be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel or require us to develop a non-infringing technology, enter into royalty or licensing agreements, or be subject to requests for injunctive remedies. Where claims are made by customers, resistance even to unmeritorious claims could damage customer relationships. There can be no assurance that licenses will be available on acceptable terms and conditions, if at all or that our indemnification by our suppliers will be adequate to cover our costs if a claim were brought directly against us or our customers. Furthermore, because of the potential for high court awards that are not necessarily predictable, it is not unusual to find even arguably unmeritorious claims settled for significant amounts. If any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us by any third party is successful, if we are required to indemnify a customer with respect to a claim against the customer or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. OUR PRODUCTS MAY CONTAIN SOFTWARE DEFECTS POTENTIALLY HARMING OUR BUSINESS. Our software products may contain undetected errors or failures. This includes our Postano products because they are in the early stages of the product life cycle. This may result in loss of or delay in, customer acceptance of our products and could harm our reputation and our business. Undetected errors or failures in computer software programs are not uncommon. 11 Table of Contents The detection and correction of any security flaws can be time consuming and costly. Errors in our software products could affect the ability of our products to work with other hardware or software products, could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products, including products integrated with our acquired technologies. If we experience errors or delays in releasing new products or new versions of products, we could lose revenues. End users who rely on our products and services for applications that are critical to their businesses may have a greater sensitivity to product errors and security vulnerabilities than customers for software products generally. Software product errors and security flaws in our products or services could expose us to product liability, performance or warranty claims, as well as harm our reputation, which could impact our future sales of products and services. IF ASTORIA OR OTHER SECURITIES HOLDERS REQUEST REGISTRATION OF THEIR RESTRICTED SECURITIES OR THESE SECURITIES HOLDERS SELL A SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNT OF RESTRICTED SECURITIES IN THE OPEN MARKET, OUR STOCK PRICE MAY DECLINE. As of March 31, 2015, we had 30,955,697 outstanding shares of common stock, of which approximately 15.3 million shares were restricted securities held by Astoria and other holders. Restricted securities may be sold in the public market only if they are registered or if they qualify for an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. At present, all of our outstanding restricted securities may be registered or are eligible for public sale under Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act, subject to volume limitations and other requirements of Rule 144. Sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock by Astoria or other securities holders in the public market or the perception that those sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition, if we register shares of our common stock in connection with a public offering of securities, we may be required to include shares of restricted securities in the registration, including shares we issued in connection with the Storycode acquisition, possibly adversely affecting our ability to raise capital. OUR GLOBAL OPERATIONS EXPOSE US TO ADDITIONAL RISKS AND CHALLENGES ASSOCIATED WITH CONDUCTING BUSINESS INTERNATIONALLY. We operate on a global basis with offices or distributors in Europe, Australia, and North America and development efforts in North America and Europe. Approximately 39% of our revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 was generated from our international offices. We face several risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including but not limited to the following: general economic conditions in each country or region; fluctuations in interest rates or currency exchange rates; language and cultural differences; local and governmental requirements; political or social unrest; difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations; potentially adverse tax consequences; differences in intellectual property protections; difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; seasonal business activities in certain parts of the world; and trade policies. In addition, compliance with international and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. These laws and regulations include data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, anti-competition regulations, import and trade restrictions, export requirements, U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and also local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. Any such violations could include prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, could delay or prevent potential acquisitions, and could also materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business, and our operating results. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and manage these difficulties. These factors or any combination of these factors may adversely affect our revenue or our overall financial performance. 12 Table of Contents CHANGES IN OUR PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES OR ADVERSE OUTCOMES RESULTING FROM EXAMINATION OF OUR INCOME TAX RETURNS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates; by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; by expiration of or lapses in the R&D tax credit laws; by transfer pricing adjustments, including our intercompany cost sharing arrangements and legal structure; by tax effects of nondeductible compensation; by tax costs related to intercompany realignments; by changes in accounting principles; or by changes in tax laws and regulations, including possible U.S. changes to the taxation of earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, the deductibility of expenses attributable to foreign income or the foreign tax credit rules. Significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attribute prescribed in the accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes. The accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which if settled unfavorably could adversely impact our provision for income taxes or additional paid-in capital. In addition, we have and may become subject to the examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. INEFFECTIVE INTERNAL CONTROLS COULD IMPACT OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATING RESULTS. Our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls or fraud. Even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. As a smaller reporting company under the SEC rules and regulations, we are currently not subject to the requirements of independent auditor attestation of managements assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting set forth in Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 because the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act signed into law on July 21, 2010 permanently exempted companies that are not accelerated filers or large accelerated filers under the SEC rules from Section 404(b) requirements. If, in the future, we no longer qualify as a smaller reporting company and become an accelerated filer or a large accelerated filer (which may occur if the trading price of our stock, and therefore, our public float, increase significantly, as calculated on an annual basis), we will become subject to the requirements of Section 404(b) in such fiscal years. If such audit identifies any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we may be required to provide appropriate disclosures and implement costly and time-consuming remedial measures. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls or if we experience difficulties in implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed and we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. BUSINESS DISRUPTIONS COULD HURT OUR ABILITY TO EFFECTIVELY PROVIDE OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES, DAMAGING OUR REPUTATION AND HARMING OUR OPERATING RESULTS. The availability of our products and services depends on the continuing operation of our information technology systems. Our business operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, terrorist attacks, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks or other attempts to harm our systems. A portion of our research and development activities and certain other business operations are located in areas with a high risk of major earthquakes. Although we maintain crisis management and disaster response plans, such events could make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver our services to our customers, and could decrease demand for our services, which could damage our reputation and harm our operating results. WE OUTSOURCE SOME TECHNOLOGY-RELATED BUSINESS PROCESSES TO THIRD PARTY VENDORS, WHICH SUBJECTS US TO RISKS, INCLUDING DISRUPTIONS IN BUSINESS AND INCREASED COSTS. These outsourced services include credit card authorization and processing, payroll processing, record keeping for retirement and benefit plans and certain information technology functions. In addition, we review outsourcing alternatives on a regular basis and may decide to outsource additional business processes in the future. We try to ensure that all providers of outsourced services are observing proper internal control practices, such as redundant processing facilities; however, there are no guarantees that failures will not occur. Failure of third parties to provide adequate services could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or ability to accomplish our financial and management reporting. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 13 Table of Contents ITEM 2. Properties On January 23, 2014, we entered into a lease agreement with The Irvine Company LLC, as landlord, relating to space in Irvine, California. Upon completion of tenant improvements, we relocated our headquarters to this new location in April 2014. The base rent over the five-year term of the lease is approximately $7,000 per month for the first year, with annual increases to approximately $8,400 per month for the final year. We have made the decision to transition our headquarters to Portland, Oregon and expect to vacate the Irvine office in the second fiscal quarter of 2016. As such, we are actively pursuing a tenant to sublease the offices in Irvine. To date, we have not secured a sub-lessor. Effective April 1, 2011, we entered into a 49-month term lease for approximately 7,500 square feet of office space in Portland, Oregon. Total base rent over the 49-month term was approximately $321,000. In April 2015, we entered into a one-year extension to this space in Portland, Oregon through April 30, 2016 which increased total monthly rent to $18,400. This office now serves as our corporate headquarters. We own a building consisting of approximately 5,900 total square feet located on approximately six acres of land in Suffolk, England. The facility houses engineering, marketing, technical support, sales and administrative personnel related to the Omnis business. We also lease a sales and support office in France and Germany. We believe that our facilities are suitable and adequate for our current needs. ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings We are subject from time to time to litigation, claims and suits arising in the ordinary course of business. There were no ongoing material legal proceedings as of March 31, 2015. ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol TIGR. The following table sets forth the high and low closing prices for our common stock for the periods indicated, as reported by Nasdaq: High Low Fiscal year 2014 First Quarter $ 2.12 $ 1.53 Second Quarter $ 1.94 $ 1.61 Third Quarter $ 2.05 $ 1.63 Fourth Quarter $ 2.09 $ 1.41 High Low Fiscal year 2015 First Quarter $ 1.53 $ 1.20 Second Quarter $ 1.48 $ 0.91 Third Quarter $ 0.95 $ 0.37 Fourth Quarter $ 0.56 $ 0.29 On March 31, 2015, the closing price for our common stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market was $0.40 and there were approximately 134 holders of record of our common stock. 14 Table of Contents Dividends We have never declared or paid dividends on our common stock. We intend to retain earnings, if any, for the operation and expansion of our business, and therefore do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Securities Authorized For Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans The information required by this item is set forth in the headings Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters in the Companys Proxy Statement to be filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) within 120 days after March 31, 2015 in connection with the solicitation of proxies for the Companys Annual Stockholders Meeting to be held in calendar year 2015 and incorporated herein by reference. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities There were no sales of unregistered securities during the fiscal year 2015. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers There were no repurchases of shares during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2015. ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data We are a smaller reporting company and are not required to provide the information required by this item. ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The section entitled Managements Discussion and Analysis set forth below contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). These statements may generally be identified by the use of such words as expect, anticipate, believe, intend, plan, will, or shall, or the negative of those terms. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events. Forward-looking statements involve certain risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from those discussed in any such statement. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements include the risks described under the heading Risk Factors in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and, elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include, but are not limited to statements about the following: (1) our future success, (2) our research and development efforts, (3) our future operating results and cash flow, (4) our ability to compete, (5) the markets in which we operate, (6) our revenue, (7) our cost of license revenue and cost of service revenue, (8) our selling and marketing costs, (9) our general and administrative costs, (10) our research and development expenses, (11) the effect of critical accounting policies, (12) our belief that our existing cash balances combined with our cash flow from operating activities will be sufficient to meet our operating and capital expenditure requirements for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2016 and through the foreseeable future, and (13) the effect of changes in tax laws on our financial statements. All forward-looking statements in this document are made as of the date hereof, based on information available to us as of the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement. This discussion and analysis of the financial statements and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements, including the related notes thereto, contained elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Unless noted otherwise, managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations pertain to our continuing operations. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) requires us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Some of our accounting policies require us to make difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. These accounting policies involve critical accounting estimates because they are particularly dependent on estimates and assumptions made by management about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimates are made. Although we have used our best estimates based on facts and circumstances 15 Table of Contents available to us at the time, different estimates reasonably could have been used. Changes in the accounting estimates we use are reasonably likely to occur from time to time, which may have a material effect on the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations. Our most critical accounting estimates include revenue recognition and goodwill and other intangible assets. We also have other policies that we consider to be key accounting policies as identified in the footnotes to our financial statements, however, these policies either do not meet the definition of critical accounting estimates described above or are not currently material items in our financial statements. We review our estimates, judgments, and assumptions periodically and reflect the effects of revisions in the period in which they are deemed to be necessary. We believe that these estimates are reasonable; however, actual results could differ from these estimates. REVENUE RECOGNITION. Revenue attributable to an element in a customer arrangement is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fee is fixed or determinable, and collectability is probable. If, at the outset of the customer arrangement, we determine that the arrangement fee is not fixed or determinable, we defer the revenue and recognize the revenue when the arrangement fee becomes due and payable. We do not have price protection programs or conditional acceptance agreements, and sales of our products are made without right of return. For contracts with multiple software and software-related elements, we recognize revenue for the delivered elements, generally software licenses, using the residual value method when vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value exists for all undelivered elements, consisting primarily of post-contract customer support (PCS). PCS is recognized ratably over the support term. For our hosted software subscription arrangements, services revenue is recognized ratably over the subscription period. We also have services revenue consisting of consulting and training services that are either recognized as the services are performed or upon the completion of the services depending on the nature of the services. When subscription arrangements involve multiple elements that qualify as separate units of accounting, we allocate arrangement consideration to all deliverables based on the relative stand-alone selling price method in accordance with the selling price hierarchy, which includes: (i) VSOE if available; (ii) third-party evidence (TPE) if VSOE is not available; and (iii) best estimate of selling price (BESP) if neither VSOE nor TPE is available. Revenue allocated to each deliverable, limited to the amount not contingent on future performance, is then recognized when the basic revenue recognition criteria are met for the respective deliverables. When subscription arrangements involve multiple elements that do not qualify as separate units of accounting, the entire arrangement consideration is recognized over the subscription period. We determine whether VSOE can be established based on our historical pricing and discounting practices for the specific deliverable when sold separately. In determining VSOE, we require that a substantial majority of the selling prices fall within a reasonably narrow pricing range. We have established VSOE for our PCS included in our software arrangements, but have not yet been able to establish VSOE for our subscription or other services as they have not been sold at sufficiently consistent pricing. When VSOE cannot be established for our subscription and other services, we apply judgment with respect to whether we can establish a selling price based on TPE. TPE is determined based on third party pricing practices for similar deliverables when sold separately. Generally, our pricing strategy differs from that of our peers and our offerings contain a significant level of differentiation such that the comparable pricing of services with similar functionality cannot be obtained. Furthermore, typically, we are unable to reliably determine what similar competitors services selling prices are on a stand-alone basis. As a result, we have not been able to establish selling prices based on TPE. When we are unable to establish a selling price for our subscription and other services using VSOE or TPE, we use BESP in our allocation of arrangement consideration. The objective of BESP is to determine the price at which we would transact a sale if the respective elements were sold on a stand-alone basis. We estimate BESP for services by considering multiple factors including, but not limited to, prices charged for similar offerings, market conditions, competitive landscape, costs of providing the services, and our overall pricing practices. We currently use BESP in order to allocate the selling price to our deliverables in multiple element subscription arrangements. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS. We generally assess goodwill for potential impairments in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, or during the year if an event or other circumstance indicates that we may not be able to recover the carrying amount of the asset. In evaluating goodwill for impairment, we first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not (that is, a likelihood of more than 50 percent) that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If we conclude that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, then no further testing of the goodwill assigned to the reporting unit is required. However, if we conclude that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, we then perform a two-step goodwill impairment test to identify potential goodwill impairment and measure the amount of goodwill impairment to be recognized, if any. 16 Table of Contents In the first step of the review process, we compare the estimated fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying value. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, no further analysis is needed. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, we proceed to the second step of the review process to calculate the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill in order to determine whether any impairment is required. We calculate the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill by allocating the estimated fair value of the reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination. If the carrying value of the reporting units goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of the goodwill, we recognize an impairment loss for that excess amount. In allocating the estimated fair value of the reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit, we use industry and market data, as well as knowledge of the industry and our past experiences. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit under the first step of the goodwill impairment test is judgmental in nature and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions could have a significant impact on whether or not an impairment charge is recognized and the magnitude of any such charge. We base our calculation of the estimated fair value of a reporting unit on multiple approaches: market approach under the guideline public company method, market approach under the market capitalization method, and income approach. For the income approach, we use internally developed discounted cash flow models that include, among others, the following assumptions: projections of revenues and expenses and related cash flows based on assumed long-term growth rates and demand trends; expected future investments to grow new units; and estimated discount rates. We base these assumptions on our historical data and experience, third-party appraisals, industry projections, micro and macro general economic condition projections, and our expectations. For purposes of our goodwill analysis, we consider ourselves a single reporting unit. Factors we consider to be important that would trigger an impairment review include the following: Significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results; Timing of our revenue, significant changes in the manner of use of the acquired assets or the strategy for the overall business; Significant negative industry or economic trends; Significant decline in our stock price for a sustained period; and Our market capitalization falling below our net book value for a sustained period. Given our single reporting unit structure, a key input in estimating of our reporting unit fair value is our stock price as reported by the NASDAQ Capital Market (NASDAQ) and our related market capitalization. During the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2014, our market capitalization fell below our net book value for an extended period of time. As a result, we conducted the first step of a goodwill impairment test as of December 31, 2014 with the assistance of an independent valuation consultant utilizing both a market capitalization approach, including an estimated control premium, as well as a discounted cash flow approach, with key assumptions including projected future cash flows and a risk-adjusted discount rate. Both approaches resulted in an estimated fair value of our reporting unit below net book value as of December 31, 2014. As such, we initiated the second step of the goodwill impairment test to measure the amount of impairment. We analyzed the fair value of certain assets including our developed technology, trade names, customer relationships, and property. Based on the work performed, we concluded that an impairment loss existed as of December 31, 2014 and, when measuring the amount of impairment loss, we determined that goodwill was fully impaired. Accordingly, we recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge to fully write-off the book value of our goodwill in the amount of approximately $18.2 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2014. Also, prior to performing our second step in the goodwill impairment analysis, we assessed long-lived assets including property and equipment and intangible assets for impairment. Our conclusion was that such long-lived assets were not impaired as of December 31, 2014. Intangible assets with finite useful life are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated period of economic benefit. We evaluate our intangible assets for impairment whenever events and change in circumstances occur which may warrant revised estimate of useful lives or recognition of an impairment loss. In connection with the wind down of the Storycode services as more fully explained in Note 4 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements below, we assigned all of the intellectual property rights related to the name Storycode and certain rights related thereto to two former employees. As a result, we wrote off the remaining net book value associated with this intangible asset in the amount of approximately $65,000 during the quarter ended December 31, 2014. 17 Table of Contents RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) , which provides guidance for revenue recognition. This ASU affects any entity that either enters into contracts with customers to transfer goods or services or enters into contracts for the transfer of non-financial assets. This ASU will supersede the revenue recognition requirements in Topic 605, Revenue Recognition, and most industry-specific guidance. This ASU also supersedes some cost guidance included in Subtopic 605-35, Revenue Recognition-Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts. The core principle of the guidance is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchanged for those goods or services. The standard permits the use of either the retrospective or cumulative effect transition method. We are evaluating the effect that ASU No. 2014-09 will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. We have not yet selected a transition method nor have we determined the effect of the standard on our ongoing financial reporting. In April 2015, the FASB issued an exposure draft proposing to defer the effective date of this ASU for one year. The new standard is effective for our fiscal year 2018, or fiscal year 2019 if the effective date is deferred by one year. In April 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-08, Presentation of Financial Statements (Topic 205) and Property, Plant, and Equipment (Topic 360), which provides guidance for reporting discontinued operations and disclosures of disposals of components of an entity. This ASU affects an entity that has either a component that is disposed of or meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale. The core principle of the guidance is that a disposal of a component, or a group of components of an entity is required to be reported in discontinued operations if the disposal represents a strategic shift and has (or will have) a major effect on an entitys operations and financial results. This standard is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2014, including interim periods within that reporting period (our fiscal year 2016). We do not expect the adoption of this ASU to have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations. In August 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-15, Presentation of Financial Statements-Going Concern (Subtopic 205-40): Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entitys Ability to Continue as a Going Concern (ASU 2014-15). This ASU is intended to define managements responsibility to evaluate whether there is substantial doubt about an organizations ability to continue as a going concern and to provide related footnote disclosures. The amendments in this ASU are effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, with early adoption permitted. We are evaluating the effect that ASU No. 2014-15 will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. 18 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table sets forth certain Consolidated Statement of Operations data from continuing operations in total dollars, as a percentage of total net revenues and as a percentage change from the same period in the prior year. Cost of license revenues and cost of service revenues are expressed as a percentage of the related revenues. This information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Year Ended Year Ended March 31, 2015 March 31, 2014 Results % of Net Revenues Percent Change Results % of Net Revenues (In thousands) (In thousands) Net revenues Licenses $ 2,274 33 % 0 % $ 2,264 41 % Subscription 2,365 34 % 104 % 1,157 21 % Services 2,354 34 % 14 % 2,069 38 % Total net revenues 6,993 100 % 27 % 5,490 100 % Operating expenses Cost of revenues: Cost of subscription revenues (as a % of subscription revenues) 721 30 % 155 % 283 24 % Cost of service revenues (as a % of service revenues) 432 18 % -70 % 1,450 70 % Selling and marketing 5,649 81 % -5 % 5,918 108 % Research and development 3,986 57 % -10 % 4,441 81 % General and administrative 6,653 95 % 53 % 4,350 79 % Acquisition related costs 0 % 100 % 209 4 % Impairment of goodwill 18,183 260 % 100 % NA Total operating expenses 35,624 509 % 114 % 16,651 303 % Operating loss (28,631 ) -409 % 157 % (11,161 ) -203 % Other income (expense)-net 56 1 % -182 % (68 ) -1 % Loss before income taxes (28,575 ) -409 % 154 % (11,229 ) -205 % Income tax provision (benefit) 85 1 % -102 % (3,965 ) -72 % Net loss from continuing operations $ (28,660 ) -410 % 295 % $ (7,264 ) -132 % REVENUES NET REVENUES. Net revenues include software licensing, hosted subscription services, post contract technical support, and professional services for our Omnis and Postano products and services. We generally sell our hosted Postano platform on a time-based subscription basis and offer our customers related professional services for additional fees. We license our Omnis software primarily on a per-CPU, per-server, per-port or per-user basis. Therefore, the addition of CPUs, servers, ports or users to existing systems increases our revenue from our installed base of licenses. Similarly, the reduction of CPUs, servers, ports or users from existing systems decreases our revenue from our installed base of customers. Effective December 1, 2014, we no longer provide Storycode digital publishing professional services as a result of our decision to wind down this portion of our business. These services were generally sold on a project basis and revenue from this portion of the business has not been significant historically. The timing of orders and customer ordering patterns has resulted in fluctuations in our revenues between quarters and year-to-year. Total net revenues increased by approximately $1.5 million, or 27%, for the year ended March 31, 2015, when compared to the prior year, primarily due to an increase in Postano subscription revenue. License revenues from our Omnis software remained consistent with prior year at approximately $2.3 million. Subscriptions revenue from our Postano product increased by approximately $1.2 million, or 104%, when compared to the prior year. This increase was mainly due to both the growth in number of new customers, subscription renewals, and an increase in the average size of subscriptions. Services revenue increased by approximately $0.3 million, or 14%, for the year ended March 31, 2015, when compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to higher Postano professional services revenue. 19 Table of Contents OPERATING EXPENSES COST OF SUBSCRIPTION REVENUE. Cost of subscription revenue is comprised of direct costs for Postano subscriptions associated with data center hosting and personnel costs relating to platform access, web embed displays, social content analytic reports and phone support. Cost of subscription revenue increased approximately $0.4 million, or 155%, for the year ended March 31, 2015, when compared to the prior year. This increase was due to higher data center costs due to more bandwidth needed to accommodate an increase in the number of subscriptions and higher personnel costs due to additional headcount. COST OF SERVICE REVENUE. Cost of service revenue primarily includes personnel costs relating to consulting, professional and training services, and service royalties for our Omnis, Storycode, and Postano products. Effective December 1, 2014, we no longer provide Storycode professional services as a result of our decision to wind down this portion of our business. Historically, cost of service revenue from Storycode services has not been significant. Cost of service revenue for the year ended March 31, 2015 decreased by approximately $1.0 million, or 70%, from the prior year mainly related to a decrease in costs associated with a revenue sharing arrangement that was terminated in the prior fiscal year. SELLING AND MARKETING. Selling and marketing expense consists primarily of salaries, benefits, advertising, trade shows, travel and overhead costs for our sales and marketing personnel. Selling and marketing expense for the year ended March 31, 2015 decreased by approximately $0.3 million, or 5%, when compared to the prior year mainly due to lower headcount as we wound down the Storycode business in the current year, and lower stock-based compensation expense. We anticipate that selling and marketing costs related to our Postano product lines will continue to increase as we further develop the sales channels for these products and as customer acceptance of these products increases. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT. Research and development expense consists primarily of salaries and other personnel-related expenses and overhead costs for engineering personnel, including employees in the United States and the United Kingdom and contractors in the United States. Research and development expense for the year ended March 31, 2015 decreased by approximately $0.5 million, or 10%, when compared to the prior year mainly due to lower headcount related to development efforts of our Postano and Omnis products and lower stock-based compensation expense. We believe that our future success will depend largely on strong development efforts with respect to both our existing and new products. These development efforts have resulted in updates and upgrades to existing Omnis products and the launch of new products including the Postano social media platform. New product updates and upgrades in our Omnis and Postano product lines are currently in progress and we expect to continue our research and development efforts in these product lines for the foreseeable future. GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE. General and administrative expense consists primarily of costs associated with our executive, finance, human resources, legal and other administrative functions. These costs consist principally of salaries and other personnel-related expenses, professional fees, depreciation and overhead costs. General and administrative expense for the year ended March 31, 2015 increased by approximately $2.3 million, or 53%, when compared to the prior year mainly due to higher salary expense due to added headcount, severance expense related to terminated employees, and higher legal and financial advisory services expense related to goodwill impairment valuation and the evaluation of any proposed sale of our common stock by our largest stockholder, as well as the evaluation of other strategic alternatives available to the Company. IMPAIRMENT OF GOODWILL. During the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2014, our market capitalization fell below our net book value. As a result, we conducted the first step of a goodwill impairment test as of December 31, 2014 with the assistance of an independent valuation consultant utilizing both a market capitalization approach, including an estimated control premium, as well as a discounted cash flow approach, with key assumptions including projected future cash flows and a risk-adjusted discount rate. Both approaches resulted in an estimated fair value of our reporting unit below net book value as of December 31, 2014. As such, we initiated the second step of the goodwill impairment test to measure the amount of impairment. We analyzed the fair value of certain assets including our developed technology, trade names, customer relationships, and property. Based on the work performed, we concluded that an impairment loss existed as of December 31, 2014 and, when measuring the amount of impairment loss, we determined that goodwill was fully impaired. Accordingly, we recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge to fully write-off the book value of our goodwill in the amount of approximately $18.2 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2014. Also, prior to performing our second step in the goodwill impairment analysis, we assessed long-lived assets including property and equipment and intangible assets for impairment. Our conclusion was that such long-lived assets were not impaired as of December 31, 2014. OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)-NET. Other income (expense)-net consists primarily of interest income (expense) and gains and losses on foreign currency transactions and is not significant for any period presented. 20 Table of Contents PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES. Our effective tax rate from continuing operations was (0.3)% and (35.4)% for the years ended March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. For the year ended March 31, 2014, we reported a tax benefit on our loss from continuing operations to the extent these losses would be utilized from income from discontinued operations. Our total effective tax rate was (0.3)% and 32.8% for the years ended March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The provision for income taxes for the year ended March 31, 2015 reflected the income tax on net earnings from our foreign subsidiaries in France and Germany. In addition, we accrued additional expense of $55,000 related to a potential assessment from the German tax authorities in the year ended March 31, 2015. Due to uncertainties surrounding the timing and likelihood of realizing the benefits of the net operating loss carryforwards in the future, we continue to carry a full valuation allowance against net deferred tax assets related to our operations in the United States and United Kingdom. Realization of deferred tax assets depends upon future earnings, if any, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. Accordingly, we have offset our net deferred tax assets in our U.S. and UK subsidiaries, with a valuation allowance. The utilization of our net operating losses could be subject to substantial annual limitations as a result of certain future events, such as an acquisition or other significant events, which may be deemed as a change in ownership under the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and similar state provisions. The annual limitations could result in the expiration of net operating losses and tax credits before utilization. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES As of March 31, 2015, we had approximately $10.3 million in cash, of which approximately $0.6 million was held by our foreign subsidiaries and, if repatriated, would not be subject to material tax consequences due to our net operating loss carry forwards. We believe that our existing cash balances and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months. We are committed to research and development and marketing efforts that are intended to allow us to further penetrate our target markets and grow our revenues and improve operating results. However, our research and development and marketing efforts have required, and will continue to require, cash outlays without the immediate or short-term receipt of related revenue. Our ability to meet our future expenditure requirements is dependent upon our future financial performance, and this will be affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, success in penetrating new markets, our ability to attract new customers, and achieving market acceptance of our new and existing products and services, the success of research and development efforts and other factors beyond our control. We had no material commitments for capital expenditures as of March 31, 2015. Net cash used in operating activities was approximately $10.0 million for the year ended March 31, 2015. Net cash used in operating activities was approximately $7.6 million for the year ended March 31, 2014. The increase in net cash used in operating activities for the year ended March 31, 2015 as compared to the same period in the prior year, was primarily due to higher hosting cost and professional services expenses relating to Postano and Omnis product lines, higher general and administrative expense related to severance expense for terminated employees, and higher legal and consulting expense for the evaluation of strategic alternatives available to us. Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended March 31, 2015 was approximately $0.3 million and was mainly due to purchases of furniture and equipment related to the relocation of our headquarters in April 2014, and partial payment for a software license purchase. Net cash provided by investing activities for the year ended March 31, 2014 was approximately $19.6 million and was mainly due to the proceeds received from the sale of our MDMS Business. Net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended March 31, 2015 was approximately $2.2 million and was mainly due to proceeds released from escrow from the sale of our MDMS Business in the prior year. Net cash provided from financing activities for the year ended March 31, 2014 was $0.1 million and related to proceeds from exercise of stock options and issuance of our common stock. There was no outstanding line of credit or other borrowings during the years ended March 31, 2015 or 2014. OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS As of March 31, 2015, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in the SEC regulations, which have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that is material to investors. NON-GAAP FINANCIAL INFORMATION Adjusted EBITDA (as defined below) should not be construed as a substitute for net income (loss) determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Adjusted EBITDA excludes components that are significant in understanding and assessing our results of operations. Adjusted EBITDA does not represent funds available for managements discretionary use. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA is not a term defined by GAAP and as a result our measure of Adjusted EBITDA might not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. 21 Table of Contents However, Adjusted EBITDA is used by management to evaluate, assess and benchmark our operational results and we believe that Adjusted EBITDA is relevant and useful information widely used by analysts, investors and other interested parties in our industry. Accordingly, we are disclosing this information to permit a more comprehensive analysis of our operating performance, and to provide an additional measure of performance. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net income (loss) with adjustments for depreciation and amortization, interest income (expense)-net, and income tax provision (benefit) plus adjustments for other income (expense)-net, non-cash stock-based compensation expense, and other non-recurring items such as income from discontinued operations, goodwill impairment charges and acquisition related costs. Our Adjusted EBITDA was negative $9.5 million for both years ended March 31, 2015 and 2014, as increases in revenues in 2015 were offset by higher general and administrative expense during the year as described above. The following table reconciles GAAP reported net income (loss) to Adjusted EBITDA: RECONCILIATION OF ADJUSTED EBITDA TO NET INCOME (LOSS) (In thousands) For the Years Ended March 31, 2015 2014 Reported net income (loss) $ (28,660 ) $ 1,295 Depreciation and amortization 328 $ 191 Stock-based compensation 601 1,293 Interest expense-net 3 6 Other (income) expense-net (59 ) 62 Acquisition related cost 209 Income tax provision 85 (3,965 ) Impairment of goodwill 18,183 Income from discontinued operations (8,559 ) Adjusted EBITDA $ (9,519 ) $ (9,468 )