Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those identified below and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors and other parts of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future. Overview Upstart applies modern data science and technology to the process of underwriting consumer credit. By providing our bank partners with a proprietary AI-based origination platform, we help them originate credit with higher approval rates, lower loss rates and a high degree of automation. As our technology continues to improve and additional banks adopt our platform, consumers benefit from improved access to affordable and frictionless credit. We believe that banks will continue to be at the forefront of consumer lending in the United States. We believe AI lending will become increasingly critical as this industry continues to undergo a broad digital transformation. Our strategy is to partner with banks, providing them with an exceptional AI lending platform that they can configure as they originate consumer loans under their own brand, according to their own business and regulatory requirements. Consumers can obtain Upstart-powered loans in one of two ways: either by referral from Upstart.com to one of our bank partners, or directly through our bank partners own websites, where our lending technology and experience is bank-branded. Our direct bank partner channel represents a small but growing portion of our overall volume, and we believe this portion will continue to grow over time as we onboard new bank partners. Our bank partners can retain loans that align with their business and risk objectives. For loans that are not retained by our bank partners, we help diversify the funding of these loans to a broad base of institutional investors that invest in Upstart-powered loans. In the three months ended March 31, 2021, approximately 17% of Upstart-powered loans were retained by the originating bank, while about 81% of Upstart-powered loans were purchased by institutional investors through our loan funding programs. Over the last few years, the percentage of loans funded through our balance sheet has generally decreased, while the percentage of loans purchased by institutional investors and loans retained by bank partners has generally increased. Our Economic Model Upstarts revenues are primarily earned in the form of three separate usage-based fees, which can be either dollar or percentage based depending on the contractual arrangement. We charge our bank partners a referral fee each time we refer a borrower who obtains a loan. Separately, we charge bank partners a platform fee each time they originate a loan using our platform. These fees are contracted for and charged separately, although they are generally combined for accounting purposes as they usually represent a single performance obligation. We do not charge the borrowers on our platform any referral, platform or other similar fees for our loan matching services. We also charge the holder of the loan (either a bank or institutional investor) an ongoing annualized servicing fee based on the outstanding principal over the lifetime of the loan for ongoing servicing of the loan. In addition, we earn a small portion of our revenue from interest income and our securitization activities. Loans on our platform today are predominantly sourced from Upstart.com. For these loans, we incur variable costs in the form of borrower acquisition costs and borrower verification and servicing costs. Borrower 42 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) acquisition costs and borrower verification and servicing costs are highly correlated with the Transaction Volume, Number of Loans on our platform and trended upwards. We source a small number of loans directly through bank partners in which we receive no referral fee and incur no acquisition cost. The rising level of automation and continued improvements to our Conversion Rate achieved through our increasingly sophisticated risk models and our evolving channel mix contribute to improving loan unit economics over time. We further believe that bank-sourced loans can be an important driver of volume growth in the medium-term future; to the extent we are able to increase the number of loans sourced directly through our bank partners, our contribution margin would be positively impacted. COVID-19 Pandemic Impact The onset of the COVID-19 pandemic began to impact origination volumes on our platform in the second half of March 2020. A rapid rise in unemployment in the United States led to the potential for increased losses for new originations underwritten by our AI models, reduction in originations by bank partners, and a temporary pause in loan funding from institutions and capital markets. These factors collectively resulted in an 86% reduction in the number of loans originated and a 73% reduction in revenue in the second quarter of 2020 compared to the first quarter of 2020. In response to the market conditions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, we made certain operational changes, including temporary reductions in our marketing activities and certain operational expenses. We continue to evaluate market and other conditions and may make additional changes to our fees or marketing activities, or implement additional operational changes, in the future. Origination volumes recovered quickly, beginning in June 2020, as unemployment plateaued. For the quarter ended March 31, 2021, the Transaction Volume, Number of Loans was 169,750, representing a 102% increase compared to the Transaction Volume, Number of Loans in the quarter ended March 31, 2020. To support borrowers suffering from income loss due to the pandemic, Upstart worked with its bank partners to offer hardship plans that, among other things, allowed affected borrowers to defer loan payments for up to two months. At the peak, approximately 5.6% of borrowers on our platform had enrolled in a hardship program, less than half the rate of online lending industry benchmarks. Since this time, approximately 95% of these impacted borrowers have exited the hardship program and resumed making loan payments. Due to the strength of our AI model, we expect that the COVID-19 pandemic will have minimal impact on bank partners and institutional investor performance for Upstart-powered loans originated prior to the second quarter of 2020. Although significant government assistance was provided during the COVID-19 pandemic, the resilience of our bank partner results during this time provides evidence of the benefits that our AI models can offer to bank lending programs. We believe these benefits are even more compelling and valuable during periods of economic downturn. Factors Affecting Our Performance Continued Improvements to Our AI Models Much of our historical growth has been driven by improvements to our AI models. These models benefit over time from a flywheel effect that is characteristic of machine learning systems: accumulation of repayment data leads to improved accuracy of risk and fraud predictions, which results in higher approval rates and lower interest rates, leading to increased volume, and consequently greater accumulation of repayment data. This virtuous cycle describes an important mechanism by which our business grows simply through model learning and recalibration. We expect to continue to invest significantly in the development of our AI models and platform functionalities. Beyond the ongoing accumulation of repayment data used to train our models, we also frequently make discrete improvements to model accuracy by upgrading algorithms and incorporating new variables, both of which 43 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) have historically resulted in higher approval rates, more competitive loan offers, increased automation, and faster growth. As a second order effect, the impact of these improvements on our conversion funnel also allows us to unlock new marketing channels over time that have previously been unprofitable. We believe that ongoing improvements to our technology in this manner will allow us to further expand access and lower rates for creditworthy borrowers, which will continue to fuel our growth. Should the pace of these improvements slow down or cease, or should we discover forms of model upgrades which improve accuracy at the expense of volume, our growth rates could be adversely affected. Bank and Market Adoption Banks play two key roles in Upstarts ecosystem: funding loans and acquiring new customers. Banks tend to enjoy among the most efficient sources of funding due to their expansive base of deposits. As they adopt our technology and fund a growing proportion of our platform transactions, offers made to borrowers will typically improve, generally leading to higher conversion rates and faster growth for our platform. New bank partners also represent additional acquisition channels through which we can reach and source prospective new borrowers, as these banks develop and implement their own digital and in-branch campaigns to drive traffic from their existing customer base to our platform. We view this emerging growth channel to be additive to the marketing acquisition programs we currently run at Upstart. To provide funding support for our bank partners, we have built a broad network of institutional investors that can fund Upstart-powered loans through secondary loan purchasing, issuance of pass-through certificates and investment in asset-backed securitizations. This diverse network of capital helps to minimize our reliance on any one funding source. However, any trend towards reduced participation by banks will generally erode the overall competitiveness of the offers on our platform, and any declining trend in the participation of broader institutional investment markets with respect to funding availability for Upstart-powered loans could adversely affect our business. Product Expansion and Innovation We intend to continue developing new financial products that address a broader set of consumer needs over time. In the third quarter of 2020, we announced our entry into the auto lending market and we more recently acquired Prodigy Software, Inc, which creates software solutions for auto dealers. We believe that significant growth opportunities exist to apply our evolving technology to additional segments of credit, such as credit cards, mortgages, student loans, point-of-sale loans, and HELOCs. In addition, we aim to serve a broader role of technology enablement for banks, which we believe will seek more comprehensive technology solutions from their suppliers. For example, in the second quarter of 2020, we began offering an application programming interface product to banks that allows them to utilize our AI underwriting models to support their loan origination process for personal, auto, and student loans. We will incur expenses and opportunity cost to develop and launch new products. Monetization prospects for new products are uncertain, and costs associated with developing and marketing new products might not be recovered, which could weigh on our top-line growth and profitability. Impact of Macroeconomic Cycles Economic cycles can impact our financial performance and related metrics, including consumer demand for loans, conversion rates and the interest rates our bank partners and institutional investors are willing to accept. In a potential downturn, we believe consumer lending will generally contract, including the volume transacted on our own platform. However, the performance of Upstart-powered loans through an economic downturn, such as that experienced during the COVID-19 pandemic, will be important in further validating our AI models with banks and institutional investors. If we are able to continue demonstrating the resilience of Upstart-powered loans through 44 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) future macroeconomic cycles relative to general consumer credit, it could strengthen our competitive positioning as we emerge from such downturns. Key Operating and Non-GAAP Financial Metrics We focus on several key operating and Non-GAAP financial metrics to measure the performance of our business and help determine strategic direction. Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2021 Transaction Volume, Dollars $ 1,122,565 $ 1,728,677 Transaction Volume, Number of Loans 84,214 169,750 Conversion Rate 14.1% 22.0% Percentage of Loans Fully Automated 70% 71% Contribution Profit (1) $ 25,660 $ 55,786 Contribution Margin (1) 38% 48% Adjusted EBITDA (1) $ 3,671 $ 20,999 Adjusted EBITDA Margin (1) 6% 17% Adjusted Net Income (1) $ 3,445 $ 19,944 Adjusted Net Income per Share Basic (1) $ 0.24 $ 0.27 Diluted (1) $ 0.05 $ 0.22 _______ (1) Represents a non-GAAP financial measure. See the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsReconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures for further information. Transaction Volume We define Transaction Volume, Dollars as the total principal of loans transacted on our platform between a borrower and the originating bank during the period presented. We define Transaction Volume, Number of Loans as the number of loans facilitated on our platform between a borrower and the originating bank during the period presented. We believe these metrics is are a good proxies for our overall scale and reach as a platform. Conversion Rate We define Conversion Rate as the Transaction Volume, Number of Loans in a period divided by the number of rate inquiries received, which we record when a borrower requests a loan offer on our platform. We track this metric to understand the impact of improvements to the efficiency of our borrower funnel on our overall growth. Historically, our Conversion Rate has benefited from improvements to our technology, which have made our evaluation of risk more accurate and our verification process more automated, or from the addition of bank partners that have made our offers more competitive. Our ability to continue to improve our Conversion Rate depends in part on our ability to continue to improve our AI models and Percentage of Loans Fully Automated and the mix of marketing channels in any given period. Percentage of Loans Fully Automated A key driver of our Contribution Margin and operating efficiency is the Percentage of Loans Fully Automated, which is defined as the total number of loans in a given period originated end-to-end (from initial rate request to final funding) with no human involvement divided by the Transaction Volume, Number of Loans in the same period. We have been successful in increasing the level of loan automation on the platform over the past few years while simultaneously holding fraud rates constant and at very low levels. We believe our growth over the last several years has been driven in part by our ability to rapidly streamline and automate the loan application and 45 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) origination process on our platform. We expect the Percentage of Loans Fully Automated to level off and remain relatively constant in the long term, and to the extent we expand our loan offerings beyond unsecured personal loans, we expect that such percentage may decrease in the short term. Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin To derive Contribution Profit, we subtract from revenue from fees, net our borrower acquisition costs as well as our borrower verification and servicing costs. To calculate Contribution Margin we divide Contribution Profit by revenue from fees, net. The following table provides a calculation of Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin: Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2021 Referral fees, net $ 38,219 $ 73,753 Platform fees, net 22,011 33,200 Servicing fees, net 7,783 9,217 Revenue from fees, net 68,013 116,170 Borrower acquisition costs (1) (34,703) (46,122) Borrower verification and servicing costs (2) (7,650) (14,262) Total direct expenses (42,353) (60,384) Contribution Profit $ 25,660 $ 55,786 Contribution Margin 38 % 48 % _______ (1) Borrower acquisition costs consist of our sales and marketing expenses adjusted to exclude costs not directly attributable to attracting a new borrower, such as payroll-related expenses for our business development and marketing teams, as well as other operational, brand awareness and marketing activities (2) Borrower verification and servicing costs consist of payroll and other personnel-related expenses for personnel engaged in loan onboarding, verification and servicing, as well as servicing system costs. It excludes payroll and personnel-related expenses and stock-based compensation for certain members of our customer operations team whose work is not directly attributable to onboarding and servicing loans. See the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsReconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures for a reconciliation of income from operations to Contribution Profit. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin We calculate Adjusted EBITDA as net income attributable to Upstart Holdings, Inc. stockholders adjusted to exclude stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, income (expense) on warrants and other non-operating expenses, net, provision for income taxes and acquisition-related costs. We calculate Adjusted EBITDA Margin as Adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin includes interest expense from corporate debt and warehouse credit facility which is incurred in the course of earning corresponding interest income. See the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsReconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures for a reconciliation of net loss attributable to Upstart Holdings, Inc. common stockholders to Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin. Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Net Income Per Share 46 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) We define Adjusted Net Income as net income exclusive of stock-based compensation expense and acquisition-related costs. Adjusted Net Income Per Share is calculated by dividing Adjusted Net Income Per Share by the weighted-average common shares outstanding. See the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsReconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures for a reconciliation of net income attributable to Upstart Holdings, Inc. common stockholders to Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Net Income per Share. Components of Results of Operations Revenue from Fees, Net Platform and Referral Fees, Net We charge our bank partners platform fees in exchange for usage of our AI lending platform, which includes collection of loan application data, underwriting of credit risk, verification and fraud detection, and the delivery of electronic loan offers and associated documentation. We also charge referral fees to our bank partners in exchange for the referral of borrowers from Upstart.com. Referral fees are charged to bank partners on a per borrower basis upon origination of a loan. For bank partners that use our loan funding capabilities, these fees are charged net of any fees the bank partner charges Upstart. Upstart pays these bank partners a one-time loan premium fee upon completion of the minimum holding periods. Upstart also pays bank partners monthly loan trailing fees based on the amount and timing of principal and interest payments made by borrowers of the underlying loans. See Note 2. Revenue to our consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for more information about loan premium fees and trailing fees. Servicing Fees, Net Servicing fees are calculated as a percentage of outstanding principal and are charged monthly to any entities holding loans facilitated through our platform, to compensate us for activities we perform throughout the loan term, including collection, processing and reconciliations of payments received, investor reporting and borrower customer support. Servicing fees are recorded net of any gains, losses or changes to fair value recognized in the underlying servicing rights and obligations, which are carried as assets and liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. Upstart currently acts as loan-servicer for substantially all outstanding loans facilitated through the Upstart platform. Borrower payment collections for loans that are more than 30 days past due or charged off are generally outsourced to third-party collection agencies. Upstart charges bank partners and institutional investors for collection agency fees related to their outstanding loan portfolio. Upstart also receives certain ancillary fees on a per transaction basis inclusive of late payment fees and ACH fail fees. Interest Income and Fair Value Adjustments, Net Interest income and fair value adjustments, net is comprised of interest income, interest expense and net changes in the fair value of financial instruments held on our consolidated balance sheets as part of our ongoing operating activities, excluding loan servicing assets and liabilities, common stock warrant liabilities, and convertible preferred stock warrant liabilities. Interest income and fair value adjustments, net also includes the full amount of net interest income and expense incurred by consolidated variable interest entities, or VIEs, the majority of which has been historically allocated to third parties in the line item net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests on our consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income. Interest income and fair value adjustments, net can fluctuate based on the fair value of financial instruments held on our consolidated balance sheets. This amount has historically been a small percentage of our total revenue, and we do not manage our business with a focus on growing this component of revenue. Sales and Marketing 47 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of costs incurred across various advertising channels, including expenses for partnerships with third parties providing borrower referrals, direct mail and digital advertising campaigns, as well as other expenses associated with building overall brand awareness and experiential marketing costs. Sales and marketing expenses also include payroll and other personnel-related costs, including stock-based compensation expense. These costs are recognized in the period incurred. We expect that our sales and marketing expenses will increase in absolute dollars and may fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue from period to period as we hire additional sales and marketing personnel, increase our marketing activities and build greater brand awareness. Customer Operations Customer operations expenses include payroll and other personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation expense, for personnel engaged in borrower onboarding, loan servicing, customer support and other operational teams. These costs also include systems, third-party services and tools we use as part of loan servicing, information verification, fraud detection and payment processing activities. These costs are recognized in the period incurred. We expect that our customer operations expenses will increase in absolute dollars and may fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue over time, as we expand our portfolio and increase the Transaction Volume, Number of Loans. Engineering and Product Development Engineering and product development expenses primarily consist of payroll and other personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation expense, for the engineering and product development teams as well the costs of systems and tools used by these teams. These costs are recognized in the period incurred. We expect that our engineering and product development expenses will increase in absolute dollars and may increase as a percentage of our total revenue over time, as we expand our engineering and product development team to continue to improve our AI models and develop new products and product enhancements. General, Administrative and Other General, administrative and other expenses consist primarily of payroll and other personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation expense, for legal and compliance, finance and accounting, human resources and facilities teams, as well as depreciation and amortization of property, equipment and software, professional services fees, facilities and travel expenses. These costs are recognized in the period incurred. Following the completion of our initial public offering in December 2020, we expect to incur additional general, administrative and other expenses as a result of operating as a public company, including expenses related to compliance with the rules and regulations of the SEC, additional insurance expenses, investor relations activities and other administrative and professional services. We also expect to increase the size of our general and administrative function to support the growth of our business. As a result, we expect that our general, administrative and other expenses will increase in absolute dollars but may fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue from period to period. Other Income (Expense) Other income (expense) primarily consists of dividend income earned on our unrestricted cash balances. Other income (expense) is recognized in the period earned. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, other income (expense) also included the repayment of approximately $5.3 million from a forgivable loan under the Paycheck Protection Program. For additional details, refer to Note 1. Description of Business and Significant Accounting Policies of our consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q. Income (Expense) on Warrants and Other Non-Operating Expenses 48 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Income (expense) on warrants and other non-operating expenses is primarily comprised of the net changes in the fair value of our common and convertible preferred stock warrant liabilities for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2021. Results of Operations The following table summarizes our historical consolidated statements of operations data: Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2021 Revenue: Revenue from fees, net $ 68,013 $ 116,170 Interest income and fair value adjustments, net (4,019) 5,175 Total revenue 63,994 121,345 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing (1) 35,952 49,376 Customer operations (1) 8,811 17,388 Engineering and product development (1) 7,018 18,988 General, administrative, and other (1) 11,660 20,019 Total operating expenses 63,441 105,771 Income from operations 553 15,574 Other income (expense) 150 (5,233) Income (expense) on warrants and other non-operating expenses, net 289 (18) Net income before income taxes 992 10,323 Provision for income taxes 221 Net income before attribution to noncontrolling interests 992 10,102 Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests (488) Net income attributable to Upstart Holdings, Inc. common stockholders $ 1,480 $ 10,102 ________ (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2021 Sales and marketing $ 284 $ 753 Customer operations 199 752 Engineering and product development 926 4,307 General, administrative, and other 556 2,810 Total stock-based compensation $ 1,965 $ 8,622 Revenue Revenue from Fees, Net The following table set forth our revenue from fees, net in the periods shown: 49 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2021 $ Change % Change Platform and referral fees, net $ 60,230 $ 106,953 $ 46,723 78 % Servicing fees, net 7,783 9,217 1,434 18 % Total revenue from fees, net $ 68,013 $ 116,170 $ 48,157 71 % Revenue from fees, net increased $48.2 million, or 71%, in the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the same period in 2020, which included an increase of $46.7 million in revenue from platform and referral fees, net and an increase of $1.4 million in servicing fees, net. The increase of the platform and referral fees, net was primarily driven by a 102% increase in the Transaction Volume, Number of Loans from 84,214 in the three months ended March 31, 2020 to 169,750 in the same period in 2021 as well as an increase in prices of our services in response to the market conditions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. The increase in the servicing fees, net was primarily due to an 54% increase in the outstanding principal of serviced loans, as well as a downward revaluation to the net liability of our servicing obligation. Interest Income and Fair Value Adjustments, Net Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2021 $ Change % Change Operating entities (1) : Interest income $ 5,325 $ 3,057 $ (2,268) (43) % Interest expense (1,902) (961) 941 49 % Fair value adjustments, net (4,423) 2,693 7,116 161 % Other consolidated entities (2) : Interest income 3,858 348 (3,510) (91) % Interest expense (1,353) (69) 1,284 95 % Fair value adjustments, net (5,524) 107 5,631 102 % Total Company: Interest income 9,183 3,405 (5,778) (63) % Interest expense (3,255) (1,030) 2,225 68 % Fair value adjustments, net (9,947) 2,800 12,747 128 % Total interest income and fair value adjustments, net $ (4,019) $ 5,175 9,194 229 % ________ (1) Consist of balances recognized by entities participating in ongoing operating activities of the Company, including warehouse entities. (2) Consists of balances recognized by other entities, including securitization entities. Interest income and fair value adjustments, net increased $9.2 million, or 229%, in the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the same period in 2020. The increase was driven by a $12.7 million increase in fair value adjustments, net and a $2.2 million decrease in interest expense, partially offset by a decline in interest income and interest expense, of $5.8 million. The increase of the fair value adjustments was primarily attributable to a reversal of negative fair value adjustments recognized largely due to market changes as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic in the first quarter of 2020 by both operating and other consolidating entities. Interest income and interest expense recognized by other consolidated entities decreased due to the deconsolidation of the 2018-1 securitization which occurred in the second quarter of 2020. Finally, our operating entities held a smaller loan portfolio in the first quarter of 2021, which resulted in decreases of both interest income and interest expense associated with borrowings under the credit facility. The deconsolidation of the 2018-1 securitization was a result of the expiration of the related risk retention requirements, which caused us to conclude that we are no longer the primary beneficiary. For additional details, refer to Note 3. Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities of our consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q. 50 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2021 $ Change % Change Sales and marketing $ 35,952 $ 49,376 $ 13,424 37% Sales and marketing expenses increased by $13.4 million, or 37%, in the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020. The increase was primarily due to a $11.4 million increase in advertising and other traffic acquisition cost, as well as $1.6 million increase in payroll and other personnel-related expenses driven by increased headcount. As a percentage of total revenue, sales and marketing expenses decreased from 56% to 41%. Customer Operations Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2021 $ Change % Change Customer operations $ 8,811 $ 17,388 $ 8,577 97% Customer operations expenses increased by $8.6 million, or 97%, in the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the same period in 2020. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $5.3 million in payroll and other personnel-related expenses due to an increase in headcount as well as increased spending of $2.5 million in information verification and platform operations due to a growing volume of loans facilitated through our platform. As a percentage of total revenue, customer operations expenses remained flat at 14% for both periods. Engineering and Product Development Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2021 $ Change % Change Engineering and product development $ 7,018 $ 18,988 $ 11,970 171% Engineering and product development expenses increased by $12.0 million, or 171%, three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the same period in 2020. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $11.0 million in payroll and other personnel-related expenses driven by an increase in headcount, as well as a $0.9 million increase in spending on consultants and other engineering support services. As a percentage of total revenue, engineering and product development expenses increased from 11% to 16%. General, Administrative, and Other Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2021 $ Change % Change General, administrative, and other $ 11,660 $ 20,019 $ 8,359 72 % General, administrative, and other expenses increased by $8.4 million, or 72%, in the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the same period in 2020. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $4.2 million in personnel-related costs as a result of increased headcount; an increase of $1.7 million in insurance costs; and an increase of $1.2 million in legal and compliance-related expenses. As a percentage of total revenue, general, administrative, and other expenses decreased from 18% to 16%. 51 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Other Income (Expense) Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2021 $ Change % Change Other income (expense) $ 150 $ (5,233) $ (5,383) (3589) % Other income (expense) decreased by $5.4 million, or 3589%, in the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the same period in 2020. The decrease was primarily due to our voluntary repayment of proceeds received from the PPP loan. We used the loan to mitigate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business in Q2 2020 and fully complied with the forgiveness requirements, including maintaining full employment through the significant transaction volume decline. Our business experienced a strong recovery later in 2020 and continued growing in the most recent quarter, which brought us to a conclusion that the funds received as part of the program were no longer needed for their original intent and should be repaid. We recognized the loan principal repayment as a reduction to other income (expense) totaling $5.3 million. Income (Expense) on Warrants and Other Non-operating Expenses, Net Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2021 $ Change % Change Income (expense) on warrants and other non-operating expenses, net $ 289 $ 18 (271) (94) % Income (expense) on warrants and other non-operating expenses, net decreased by $0.3 million, or 94%, in the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the same period in 2020. The decrease was primarily a result of a $0.3 million increase in the fair value of warrants in the three months ended March 31, 2020. Our warrants were reclassified to equity in the fourth quarter of 2020 and exercised in January 2021. We had no warrants outstanding as of March 31, 2021. Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures To supplement our consolidated financial statements prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP, we use the non-GAAP financial measures Contribution Profit, Contribution Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin, and Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Net Income Per Share to provide investors with additional information about our financial performance and to enhance the overall understanding of our past performance and future prospects. We are presenting these non-GAAP financial measures because we believe they provide an additional tool for investors to use in comparing our core financial performance over multiple periods with the performance of other companies. However, non-GAAP financial measures have limitations in their usefulness to investors because they have no standardized meaning prescribed by GAAP and are not prepared under any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. In addition, non-GAAP financial measures may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be directly comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies. As a result, non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed as supplementing, and not as an alternative or substitute for, our consolidated financial statements prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP. To address these limitations, we provide a reconciliation of Contribution Profit, Contribution Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin, and Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Net Income Per Share to loss from operations and net loss attributable to Upstart Holdings, Inc. common stockholders, respectively. We encourage investors and others to review our financial information in its entirety, not to rely on any single financial measure and to view Contribution Profit, Contribution Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin, 52 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Adjusted Net Income, and Adjusted Net Income Per Share in conjunction with their respective related GAAP financial measures. Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin We use Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin as part of our overall assessment of our performance, including the preparation of our annual operating budget and quarterly forecasts, to evaluate the effectiveness of our business strategies, and to communicate with our Board of Directors concerning our financial performance. We believe Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin is useful to investors for period-to-period comparisons of our business and in evaluating and understanding our operating results and ability to scale. Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin are also useful to investors because our management uses Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin, in conjunction with financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP, to evaluate our operating results and financial performance and the effectiveness of our strategies. Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin have limitations as an analytical tool, and you should not consider in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin are not a GAAP financial measure of, nor does it imply, profitability. Even if our revenue exceeds variable expenses over time, we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability, and the relationship of revenue to variable expenses is not necessarily indicative of future performance. Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin does not reflect all of our variable expenses and involves some judgment and discretion around what costs vary directly with loan volume. Other companies that present Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin calculate it differently and, therefore, similarly titled measures presented by other companies may not be directly comparable to ours. The following table presents a reconciliation of income from operations to Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin. We define Operating Margin as our income from operations divided by revenue from fees, net. Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2021 Revenue from fees, net $ 68,013 $ 116,170 Income from operations 553 15,574 Operating Margin 1 % 13 % Sales and marketing, net of borrower acquisition costs (1) $ 1,249 $ 3,254 Customer operations, net of borrower verification and servicing costs (2) 1,161 3,126 Engineering and product development 7,018 18,988 General, administrative, and other 11,660 20,019 Interest income and fair value adjustments, net 4,019 (5,175) Contribution Profit $ 25,660 $ 55,786 Contribution Margin 38 % 48 % _________ (1) Borrower acquisition costs were $34.7 million and $46.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2021, respectively. Borrower acquisition costs consist of our sales and marketing expenses adjusted to exclude costs not directly attributable to attracting a new borrower, such as payroll-related expenses for our business development and marketing teams, as well as other operational, brand awareness and marketing activities. (2) Borrower verification and servicing costs were $7.7 million and $14.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2021, respectively. Borrower verification and servicing costs consist of payroll and other personnel-related expenses for personnel engaged in loan onboarding, verification and servicing, as well as servicing system costs. It excludes payroll and personnel-related expenses and stock-based compensation for certain members of our customer operations team whose work is not directly attributable to onboarding and servicing loans. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin 53 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) We believe that Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin are useful for investors to use in comparing our financial performance with the performance of other companies for the following reasons: Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin are widely used by investors and securities analysts to measure a companys operating performance without regard to items such as depreciation, and interest expense, that can vary substantially from company to company depending upon their financing and capital structures, and the method by which assets were acquired; and Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin eliminates the impact of certain items such as stock-based compensation expense, warrant expense and acquisition-related costs that may obscure trends in the underlying performance of our business; and Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin provides consistency and comparability with our past financial performance, and facilitates comparisons with other companies, many of which use similar non-GAAP financial measures to supplement their GAAP results. Our use of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin has limitations as an analytical tool, and you should not consider these measures in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our financial results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are as follows: Although depreciation expense is a non-cash charge, the assets being depreciated may have to be replaced in the future, and Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin does not reflect cash capital expenditure requirements for such replacements or for new capital expenditure requirements; Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin exclude stock-based compensation expense, which has been, and will continue to be for the foreseeable future, a significant recurring expense for our business and an important part of our compensation strategy; Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin does not reflect: (1) changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs; (2) interest expense, or the cash requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments on our debt, which reduces cash available to us; or (3) tax payments that may represent a reduction in cash available to us; and the expenses and other items that we exclude in our calculation of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin may differ from the expenses and other items, if any, that other companies may exclude from Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin when they report their operating results. Because of these limitations, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin should be considered along with other operating and financial performance measures presented in accordance with GAAP. The following table provides a reconciliation of net income attributable to Upstart Holdings, Inc. common stockholders to Adjusted EBITDA and net income margin to Adjusted EBITDA Margin. We define Net Income Margin as net income attributable to Upstart Holdings, Inc. common stockholders divided by total revenue. 54 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2021 Total revenue $ 63,994 $ 121,345 Net income attributable to Upstart Holdings, Inc. common stockholders 1,480 10,102 Net Income Margin 2 % 8 % Adjusted to exclude the following: Stock-based compensation $ 1,965 $ 8,622 Depreciation and amortization 515 816 Income (expense) on warrants and other non-operating expenses (1) (289) 18 Provision for income taxes 221 Acquisition-related costs 1,220 Adjusted EBITDA $ 3,671 $ 20,999 Adjusted EBITDA Margin 6 % 17 % _________ (1) Consists of fair value adjustments to our warrant liability for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2021. Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Net Income Per Share We define Adjusted Net Income as net income exclusive of stock-based compensation expense and acquisition-related costs. Adjusted Net Income Per Share is calculated by dividing Adjusted Net Income Per Share by the weighted-average common shares outstanding. We believe Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Net Income Per Share are useful measures for investors in evaluating our ability to generate earnings, more readily compare between past and future periods, and provide comparability of our performance with the performance of other companies. Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2021 Net income attributable to Upstart Holdings, Inc. common stockholders $ 1,480 $ 10,102 Adjusted to exclude the following: Stock-based compensation 1,965 8,622 Acquisition-related costs 1,220 Adjusted Net Income $ 3,445 $ 19,944 Net income per share Basic $ $ 0.14 Diluted $ $ 0.11 Adjusted Net Income per Share Basic $ 0.24 $ 0.27 Diluted $ 0.05 $ 0.22 Weighted-average common shares outstanding Basic 14,625,267 73,629,122 Diluted 73,545,518 91,449,571 55 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Liquidity and Capital Resources Since inception, we have financed our operations, corporate investments, and capital expenditures primarily through the sale of convertible preferred stock, term loans and draws on our revolving credit facilities, and cash generated from operations. We have also periodically issued convertible promissory notes, none of which were outstanding as of March 31, 2021. In December 2020, we completed our IPO which resulted in $167.4 million of proceeds, net of underwriting discounts, and before deducting deferred offering costs of $7.9 million. Deferred offering costs consisted primarily of incremental accounting, legal, and other fees related to the IPO. Our outstanding debt consists of borrowings from term loan agreements, advances on our revolving credit facilities, including our warehouse credit facilities, and amounts borrowed under loan and security agreements to finance risk retention balances for certain unconsolidated securitizations we sponsor. As of March 31, 2021, we had an aggregate principal balance of $41.9 million outstanding, of which $20.5 million is due within the next 12 months. See Note 7. Borrowings in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for further information. As of March 31, 2021, our primary source of liquidity was cash of $257.0 million. Changes in the balance of cash are generally a result of working capital fluctuations or the timing of purchases of loans facilitated through our platform. To finance purchases of certain loans facilitated through our platform, we rely on our warehouse credit facility, which allows us to borrow up to an aggregate of $100.0 million through the special-purpose trust, or the warehouse trust. Loans purchased by the trust are classified as held-for-sale and can be sold to third-party investors or in securitization transactions to generate additional liquidity. As of March 31, 2021, the amount borrowed under this credit facility was $16.3 million. We believe that our cash on hand, funds available from our revolving credit facility, amounts borrowed under our term loan, and our cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our liquidity needs for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on multiple factors, including our revenue growth, working capital requirements, volume of loan purchases for product development purposes and our capital expenditures. To the extent our cash balances, cash generated by operations, revolving credit facility, term loan and the proceeds from our IPO are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity needs in the future, we may need to raise additional capital through equity or debt financing and may not be able to do so on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when needed, our results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely impacted. Term Loan In 2018, we entered into a mezzanine loan and security agreement with the same lender to obtain a term loan of up to $15.0 million, or the Mezzanine Loan. The Mezzanine Loan bears interest at the greater of prime rate plus 5.25% or 10.00% per annum and matures on October 1, 2021. As of March 31, 2021, the outstanding principal balance of the Mezzanine Loan was $15.0 million. Revolving Credit Facility Our revolving credit facility has an aggregate credit limit of $5.5 million and as of March 31, 2021, we were fully drawn on such facility. The revolving credit facility expires on June 1, 2021 when the outstanding principal and any accrued and unpaid interest are due and payable in full. Our revolving credit facility bears floating interest rates, payable on a monthly basis, and contains certain financial covenants. Failure to comply with these covenants may result in an acceleration of payment on the outstanding principal and accrued interest. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility are secured by all assets of the company, excluding assets of consolidated securitizations and cash and restricted cash related to other borrowing arrangements. As of December 31, 2020 and March 31, 2021, we were in compliance with the applicable covenants under our revolving credit facility. 56 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Warehouse Credit Facility We have entered into a warehouse credit facility with a third-party lender through our warehouse trust, which is a consolidated VIE. The warehouse facility is used to fund purchases of personal whole loans originated by certain bank partners on our platform; the assets of the warehouse trust secure the borrowings provided by the warehouse lender and are not available to settle claims of our general creditors. The credit facility, with a borrowing limit of $100.0 million, matures in May 2022 when repayment of any outstanding principal, together with any accrued interest and unpaid interest, is due and payable. As of March 31, 2021, we have borrowed $16.3 million under the warehouse credit facility and may continue to borrow under the warehouse credit facility until May 2021. Our warehouse credit facility bears floating interest rates, payable on a monthly basis, and contain certain financial covenants. Failure to comply with these covenants may result in an acceleration of payment on outstanding principal and accrued interest. As of December 31, 2020 and March 31, 2021, we were in compliance with the applicable covenants under the warehouse credit facility. Risk Retention Funding Loans We obtained financing under two loan and security agreements to fund the purchase of securitization notes and residual certificates issued by certain of our consolidated VIEs in our sponsored securitization transactions. These purchases were made in the amounts required to satisfy the requirements of U.S. risk retention regulations. The loans under these agreements bear interest at rates of 4.00% and 4.33% per annum. Interest is paid using cash distributions received monthly on the related securitization notes and residual certificates held by these entities. As of March 31, 2021, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of these loans was $5.1 million. These borrowings are solely obligations of these consolidated VIEs and are not available to satisfy potential claims of our creditors. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows during the years indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2021 Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities $ (86,522) $ 43,092 Net cash provided by investing activities 108,741 902 Net cash used in financing activities (30,108) (19,261) Net increase (decrease) in cash and restricted cash $ (7,889) $ 24,733 Net Cash from Operating Activities Our main sources of cash provided by operating activities are our revenue from fees earned under contracts with bank partners and loan investors and interest income we receive for loans held on our balance sheet. Our main uses of cash in our operating activities include payments to marketing partners, vendor payments, payroll and other personnel-related expenses, payments for facilities, and other general business expenditures. Net cash provided by operating activities was $43.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, which primarily consisted of a $22.6 million increase in net operating assets and liabilities, net income before attribution to noncontrolling interests of $10.1 million, and stock-based compensation of $8.6 million. The increase in net operating assets and liabilities was mainly related to a $38.1 million increase in net proceeds from loans held-for-sale and 11.0 million increase in payable to investors, partially offset by $18.2 million purchases of loans held-for-sale and $10.1 decrease in other assets. Net cash used in operating activities was $86.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020, which primarily consisted of a $100.5 million decrease in net operating assets and liabilities, partially offset by a change in fair value of financial instruments of $12.0 million, and stock-based compensation of 2.0 million. The decrease in 57 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) net operating assets and liabilities was mainly related to $97.9 million purchases of loans held-for-sale and $9.2 million decrease in other liabilities, partially offset by $6.8 million net proceeds from sale of loans held-for-sale. The change in fair value of financial instruments was primarily related to a $14.4 million decrease in the fair value of loans and $3.2 million decrease in fair value of notes receivable and residual certificates, partially offset by a $5.6 million decrease in the fair value of payable to securitization note holders and residual certificate holders. Net Cash from Investing Activities Our primary sources of cash from investing activities are principal repayments received on loans held-for-investment through credit facilities and held by consolidated securitizations, proceeds from the sale of loans and payments on residual certificates held for risk retention purposes in sponsored securitizations. The primary use of cash for investing activities includes purchases of loans held-for investment, including loans collateralized in consolidated securitizations, as well as purchases of securitization notes and residual certificates to fulfill risk retention requirements in securitizations we have sponsored in the past. Net cash provided by investing activities was $0.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 as a result of $8.3 million of net proceeds from sale of loans held-for-investment and $6.1 million principal payments received for notes receivable and repayments of residual certificates loans held-for-investment, partially offset by $12.9 million purchase of loans held-for-investment. Net cash provided by investing activities was $108.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 as a result of $88.1 million of net proceeds from sale of loans held-for-investment and $15.3 million of payments received for loans held by consolidated securitizations. Net Cash from Financing Activities The main sources of cash from financing activities include proceeds from issuance of securitization notes and residual certificates from consolidated securitizations, proceeds from borrowings, and proceeds from the issuance of convertible preferred stock, and notes payable. The primary uses of cash for financing activities include payments made to holders of securitization notes and residual certificates for consolidated securitizations and repayments of notes payable and borrowings. Net cash used in financing activities was $19.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 as a result of $26.6 million payment on borrowings, which was partially offset by $5.8 in proceeds from borrowings and $1.5 million of proceeds from exercise of stock options. Net cash used in financing activities was $30.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 as a result of $78.0 million in payment on borrowings and $16.7 million payment on securitization notes and certificates, which was partially offset by $64.8 million in net proceeds from borrowings. Contractual Obligations and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Contractual Obligations Our principal commitments consist of obligations under our loan purchase agreements, debt obligations related to our revolving credit facilities, term loans and risk retention funding loans, purchase commitment, and operating leases for office spaces. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of March 31, 2021 and the timing and effect that such commitments are expected to have on our liquidity and capital requirements in future periods: 58 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Total Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years More than 5 years Loan purchase obligations (1) $ 82,437 $ 82,437 $ $ $ Term loan 15,000 15,000 Interest payments on term loans 959 959 Warehouse and revolving credit facilities 21,823 5,500 16,323 Risk retention funding loans 5,105 5,105 Purchase commitment 36,949 2,949 15,000 19,000 Operating lease obligations 20,783 4,326 11,297 3,142 2,018 Total contractual obligations $ 183,056 $ 111,171 $ 47,725 $ 22,142 $ 2,018 ________ (1) Represents loans facilitated through our platform of which certain of our originating banks retain ownership for the duration of the holding period required by our contracts with the banks. This period is generally equal to three business days. We have committed to purchase the loans for the unpaid principal balance, plus accrued interest, at the conclusion of the required period. For a discussion of our long-term debt obligations, operating lease obligations and loan repurchase agreement as of March 31, 2021, see Note 7. Borrowings , Note 10. Leases, and Note 11. Commitments and Contingencies , respectively, in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for further information. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements In the ordinary course of business, we engage in activities that are not reflected on our consolidated balance sheets, generally referred to as off-balance sheet arrangements. These activities involve transactions with unconsolidated VIEs, including our sponsored and co-sponsored securitization transactions, which we contractually service. We use these transactions to provide a source of liquidity to finance our business and to diversify our investor base. When required by law, we retain at least 5% of the credit risk of the securities issued in these securitizations. We also engaged in activities with a personal loan trust entity created to facilitate fractional loan transactions. The fractional loan program was closed to new investments in 2019. We provide additional information regarding transactions with unconsolidated VIEs in Note 3. Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ significantly from our estimates. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. Our significant accounting policies are described in Part II, Item 7, Critical Accounting Policies and Estimate s in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. There have been no material changes in the three months ended March 31, 2021 to these policies and estimates since our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, except for the estimated fair value of Restricted Stock Units and Employee Stock Purchase Plan purchase rights as described in Note 1. Description of Business and Significant Accounting Policie s and Note 9. Equity Incentive Plans in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1. Description of Business and Significant Accounting Policies in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for recently adopted accounting pronouncements and recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted as March 31, 2021. 59 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc.