Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those identified below and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors and other parts of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future. Overview Upstart applies modern data science and technology to the process of underwriting consumer credit. By providing our lending partners with a proprietary AI-based origination platform, we help them originate credit with higher approval rates, lower loss rates and a high degree of automation. As our technology continues to improve and additional lending partners adopt our platform, consumers benefit from improved access to affordable and frictionless credit. We believe that banks and other traditional lenders will continue to be at the forefront of consumer lending in the United States. We believe AI lending will become increasingly critical as this industry continues to undergo a broad digital transformation. Our strategy is to partner with banks, providing them with access to an AI lending marketplace that they can configure as they originate consumer loans under their own brand, according to their own business and regulatory requirements. Consumers can obtain Upstart-powered loans in one of two ways: either by referral from Upstart.com to one of our lending partners, or directly through our lending partners own websites, where our lending technology and experience is bank-branded. Our direct lending partner channel represents a small but growing portion of our overall volume, and we believe this portion will continue to grow over time as we onboard new lending partners. Our lending partners can retain loans that align with their business and risk objectives. For loans that are not retained by our lending partners, we sell to a broad base of institutional investors that invest in Upstart-powered loans. In the three months ended March 31, 2023, 44% of the loans funded through our platform were retained by originating lending partners, 44% of loans were purchased by institutional investors through our loan funding programs and the remaining 12% were funded through our balance sheet. In the past, the percentage of loans funded through our balance sheet has generally decreased, while the percentage of loans purchased by institutional investors has generally increased. However, in 2022, we increased the percentage of loans retained by Upstart. We hold R&D Loans on our balance sheet for research and development purposes, including to test and evaluate the accuracy of our AI models for these loans. R&D Loans are primarily our auto refinance and auto retail loan products, personal loan products issued to new categories of borrowers, and other new unsecured loan products. R&D Loans are not yet part of our established capital markets programs or other loan funding programs with institutional investors. The remainder of loans on our balance sheet represent core personal loans which Upstart would sell to institutional investors. Further, in order to address recent funding constraints for our personal loans, Upstart has utilized its balance sheet to support short-term funding requirements of loans that would otherwise be purchased and held by institutional investors or securitized. While our long-term plan is to bring more committed capital from third parties to our marketplace, in the meantime, we expect to continue contributing our own capital towards funding Upstart-powered loans. 46 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Our Economic Model Upstarts revenues are primarily earned in exchange for the use of our platform and for borrower referral services provided to our lending partners through our lending marketplace. Fees for these services can be either fixed or based on a variable price per unit, depending on the contractual arrangement. Platform services result in loan originations by our lending partners using our platform and referral services result in a referral of a borrower obtaining a loan from our lending partners. These fees are combined for accounting purposes as they represent a single performance obligation. We do not charge the borrowers on our platform any referral, platform or other similar fees for our loan matching services. We also charge the holder of the loan (either a lending partner or institutional investor) a servicing fee based on the outstanding principal over the lifetime of the loan for ongoing servicing of the loan. In addition, we earn a smaller portion of our revenue from interest income for loans held on our balance sheet and gain or (loss) generated through our capital markets programs. Loans on our platform today are predominantly sourced from Upstart.com. For these loans, we incur variable costs in the form of borrower acquisition costs and borrower verification and servicing costs. Borrower acquisition, verification and servicing costs are highly correlated with Transaction Volume, which fluctuates on a quarter by quarter basis. We continue to focus on improvements to our level of automation and Conversion Rate (as defined below) through our increasingly sophisticated risk models and our evolving channel mix which have contributed to improving our loan unit economics over time. Factors Affecting Our Performance Continued Improvements to Our AI Models Much of our historical growth has been driven by improvements to our AI models. These models benefit over time from a flywheel effect that is characteristic of machine learning systems: accumulation of repayment data leads to improved accuracy of risk and fraud predictions, which results in higher approval rates and lower interest rates, leading to increased volume, and consequently greater accumulation of repayment data. This virtuous cycle describes an important mechanism by which our business grows simply through model learning and recalibration. We expect to continue to invest significantly in the development of our AI models and platform functionalities. Beyond the ongoing accumulation of repayment data used to train our models, we also frequently make discrete improvements to model accuracy by upgrading algorithms and incorporating new variables, both of which have historically resulted in higher approval rates, more competitive loan offers, increased automation, and faster growth. As a second order effect, the impact of these improvements on our conversion funnel also allows us to unlock new marketing channels over time that have previously been unprofitable. While the credit performance of Upstart-powered loans can be impacted by a variety of macroeconomic and other factors, we consider credit performance to be one of the most important measures of the effectiveness of our AI models. We focus on credit performance compared to the expectations set by us at the time of origination. Since 2018 through to the end of 2021, all quarterly vintages of loans retained by our lending partners to date are currently forecasted to meet or exceed the target returns set at the time of loan origination. For loans purchased by institutional investors, all vintages from 2018 through 2020 are forecasted to deliver returns at or in excess of the targets such institutional investors were expecting to receive, while our 2021 through mid-2022 vintages have underperformed relative to target returns. Our most recent vintages show performance reconverging to target yields. This was driven by a combination of underlying macro effects stabilizing (as seen in the Upstart Macroeconomic Index (UMI)) and increased conservatism in underwriting. We believe that ongoing improvements to our technology in this manner will allow us to further expand access and lower rates for creditworthy borrowers, which will continue to fuel our growth. Should the pace of these 47 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) improvements slow down or cease, or should we discover forms of model upgrades which improve accuracy at the expense of volume, our growth rates could be adversely affected. Impact of Macroeconomic Environment In an economic downturn, we believe consumer lending will generally contract. Lending partners and institutional investors will generally require higher rates of return, which in turn increases the interest rates offered to borrowers, leading to lower borrower demand. Macroeconomic factors can also cause fluctuations of available capital in our lending marketplace due to shifts in the risk preferences of our lending partners and institutional investors. We expect these dynamics would generally invert in an economic upswing. Loan funding provided by institutional investors started to become constrained in the second quarter of 2022 and has remained constrained, largely due to concerns about the macroeconomic environment. In response to inflationary pressure, the U.S. Federal Reserve has raised, and may continue to raise, interest rates, leading to more expensive loan offers across borrower categories. At the same time, macroeconomic uncertainty had generally made institutional investors more cautious and caused them to reduce the amount of capital available to fund Upstart-powered loans. As a result, in the first quarter of 2023, our Transaction Volume, Dollars continued to decrease. In response to this challenging macroeconomic environment where many lenders and credit investors have significantly reduced or paused investments in Upstart-powered loans, we announced reductions in workforce in November 2022 (November 2022 Plan) and January 2023 (January 2023 Plan) that resulted in the termination of approximately 7% and 20% of our workforce, respectively. These steps were designed to reduce operating costs, streamline operations and return Upstart to profitability. As of March 31, 2023, we have completed the November 2022 Plan and have substantially completed the January 2023 Plan. Refer to Note 14, Reorganization Expenses for more information. Further, several of our lending partners have paused or reduced loan originations in order to limit their exposure in the current macroeconomic environment. Further disruption in financial markets could impair our lending partners and result in further constrained funding, which would adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. In order to create greater stability for our business, we are planning to secure committed capital from lending partners and institutional investors that will contribute loan funding over longer durations. In the interim period, we have utilized and may in the future utilize our balance sheet to support loan funding. While our goal remains to operate as a capital-light marketplace for credit, we will continue to leverage our balance sheet in the short term as we evaluate opportunities to implement a committed capital structure. In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic has had, and continues to have, a significant impact on the U.S. economy and markets in which we operate. Starting in the second half of March 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic impacted origination volumes on our platform. The rapid rise in unemployment in the United States led to a reduction in originations by lending partners and a temporary pause in loan funding from institutional investors and capital markets. The level of government assistance that was made available to consumers starting in the second quarter of 2020 was unprecedented, driving significant reduction in loan default rates and resulting in strong credit performance of Upstart-powered loans from the second quarter of 2020 through the third quarter of 2021. Since then, most government assistance programs have expired, which has led to the credit risk of borrowers who benefited from these government assistance programs surpassing pre-pandemic levels and led to borrower default rates above historical norms. We measure the performance of our loans primarily by comparing actual loan defaults to defaults projected by our AI models upon loan origination. Projected performance is a critical component of our loan pricing, and the accuracy of loan default projections is determined by how close the actual return will be to the level expected by our lending partners and institutional investors. The expiration of the government assistance programs had the greatest impact on higher risk borrowers, resulting in a greater increase in default rates for these groups as compared to other less risky borrowers. 48 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) We have adjusted our AI models by incorporating different types of economic data, such as unemployment levels and inflation rates, that we receive from third party sources. These adjustments impact interest rates for loans offered on our platform and, as a result, affect borrower acceptance rates of these loans. Recently, this resulted in higher interest rates for the loans being offered through our platform and lower borrower acceptance rates of such loans. But while these economic data help our AI models take into account the current macroeconomic environment, we focus on the ability of our AI models to separate high and low risk borrowers which demonstrates the resilience in the performance of our AI models and Upstart-powered loans during downward shifts in economic cycles relative to general consumer credit. If we do it successfully, it could strengthen our competitive positioning when we emerge from such downturns. In order to respond to macroeconomic changes and provide relevant and up-to-date information to our lending partners, we introduced a new metric, the Upstart Macroeconomic Index (UMI). UMI is designed to quantify the level of underlying macroeconomic risk, specific to our borrower base, relative to a benign (pre-2020) credit environment. A UMI of 1.0 reflects loan losses at this baseline rate. As of March 31, 2023, the index was measured at approximately 1.5, meaning that current macroeconomic conditions contributed an incremental risk of approximately 50% to the repayment performance of an Upstart-powered loan, compared to the pre-2020 baseline. We continuously monitor the direct and indirect impacts of the current macroeconomic conditions on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Lending Partner and Market Adoption Lending partners play two key roles in Upstarts ecosystem: funding loans and acquiring new customers. Traditional lenders, such as banks, tend to enjoy among the most efficient sources of funding due to their expansive base of deposits. As they adopt our technology and fund a growing proportion of our marketplace transactions, offers made to borrowers will typically improve, generally leading to higher conversion rates and faster growth for our platform. New lending partners also represent additional acquisition channels through which we can reach and source prospective new borrowers, as these lending partners develop and implement their own digital and in-branch campaigns to drive traffic from their existing customer base to our platform. We view this emerging growth channel to be additive to the marketing acquisition programs we currently run at Upstart. To provide funding support beyond our lending partners, we have built, and continue to expand, a broad network of institutional investors that can fund Upstart-powered loans through secondary loan purchasing and issuance of pass-through certificates and asset-backed securitizations. This diverse network of capital helps to minimize our reliance on any one funding source. However, any trend towards reduced participation by lending partners will generally erode the overall competitiveness of the offers on our platform, and any declining trend in the participation of broader institutional investment markets with respect to funding availability for Upstart-powered loans will adversely affect our business. We believe that the recent bank failures in 2023 and disruption in the banking sector may limit our ability to attract new lending partners and may cause existing lending partners to reduce loan originations on our platform. We believe that continued focus on improving our AI models and demonstrating strong performance of Upstart-powered loans over time will allow us to further diversify our sources of capital for our lending marketplace and mitigate the volatility in our loan funding supply. Product Expansion and Innovation We believe that significant growth opportunities exist to apply our evolving AI technology to additional segments of credit, and we continue to invest in research and development of our products. In the second quarter of 2022, we introduced a new offering of personal loans for borrowers interested in small dollar loans. We may incur 49 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) expenses to support the launch of new products and fund early loan originations. Monetization prospects for new products are uncertain, and costs associated with integrating, developing and marketing new products might not be recovered, which could weigh on our top-line growth and profitability. In the third quarter of 2020, we announced our entry into the auto lending market and in April 2021, we acquired Prodigy Software, Inc. or Prodigy, a leader in automotive commerce software solutions. Prodigy provides a modern multi-channel car buying experience, helping dealerships serve consumers with a holistic software solution that integrates legacy systems. In addition to modernizing the car buying experience, Prodigy is helping bring Upstart's AI enabled auto loans to dealerships across the country where the vast majority of auto loans are transacted. In October 2021, we announced the launch of Upstart Auto Retail software, a cloud-based solution that enables dealerships to provide consumers with access to Upstart-powered auto loans by combining Prodigy Software and Upstart intellectual property. As part of the January 2023 Plan, we suspended development work for small business loans to focus our resources on acceleration of further development of our personal loan and auto loan products, Key Operating and Non-GAAP Financial Metrics We focus on several key operating and Non-GAAP financial metrics to measure the performance of our business and help determine strategic direction. The following presents our key operating and financial metrics: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2023 Transaction Volume, Dollars $ 4,535,345 $ 997,447 Transaction Volume, Number of Loans(1) 465,537 84,084 Conversion Rate 21.4% 8.2% Percentage of Loans Fully Automated 74% 84% Contribution Profit(2) $ 147,841 $ 67,623 Contribution Margin(2) 47% 58% Adjusted EBITDA(2) $ 62,590 $ (31,061) Adjusted EBITDA Margin(2) 20% (30)% Adjusted Net Income (Loss)(2) $ 58,621 $ (38,692) Adjusted Net Income (Loss) Per Share: Basic(2) $ 0.70 $ (0.47) Diluted(2) $ 0.61 $ (0.47) _______ (1)Transaction Volume, Number of Loans is shown in ones for the periods presented. (2)Represents a non-GAAP financial measure. See the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsReconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures for further information. Transaction Volume We define Transaction Volume, Dollars as the total principal of loans transacted on our platform between a borrower and the originating lending partner during the period presented. We define Transaction Volume, Number of Loans as the number of loans facilitated on our platform between a borrower and the originating lending partner during the period presented. Transaction Volume is primarily driven by improvements in our AI models and technology, including our ability to streamline and automate the loan application and origination process. Increases in Transaction Volume are dependent on our loan funding programs having sufficient access to capital. Decreases in the availability of funding due to factors such as volatility in the capital markets and macroeconomic conditions will generally cause a decline in Transaction Volume. Transaction Volume can also be driven by borrower acceptance 50 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) rates and their sensitivity to the interest rates offered through our platform. We believe these metrics are good proxies for our overall scale and reach as a marketplace. Transaction Volume, Dollars and Transaction Volume, Number of Loans decreased by 78% and 82%, respectively, in the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to the same period of 2022. This contraction was driven by a reduction in funding availability caused by macroeconomic uncertainty and by elevated consumer risk and cost of funds. These changing macroeconomic conditions also required adjustments to our models which resulted in our loans becoming more expensive and decreasing consumer demand. Conversion Rate We define Conversion Rate as the Transaction Volume, Number of Loans in a period divided by the number of rate inquiries received that we estimate to be legitimate, which we record when a borrower requests a loan offer on our platform. We track this metric to understand the impact of improvements to the efficiency of our borrower funnel on our overall growth. Historically, our Conversion Rate has benefited from improvements to our technology, which have made our evaluation of risk more accurate and our verification process more automated, or from the addition of lending partners that have made our offers more competitive. However, our Conversion Rate can be impacted by a variety of internal factors such as changes in the amount of origination fees that we charge or changes in the rate of returns we target for our lending partners and institutional investors. External factors, including shifts in macroeconomic conditions, also impact our Conversion Rate. For example, as the U.S. Federal Reserve raises interest rates, the average interest rates charged to borrowers for Upstart-powered loans also increase, which results in decreases to our Conversion Rate. Our ability to continue to improve our Conversion Rate depends in part on our ability to continue to improve our AI models and Percentage of Loans Fully Automated and the mix of marketing channels in any given period. Our Conversion Rate decreased to 8.2% in the three months ended March 31, 2023 from 21.4% in the same period of 2022, primarily driven by lower approval rates following the significant increase in interest rates, which were in turn driven by elevated risk and cost of capital. Percentage of Loans Fully Automated A driver of our Contribution Margin and operating efficiency is the Percentage of Loans Fully Automated, which is defined as the total number of loans in a given period originated end-to-end (from initial rate request to final funding) with no human involvement divided by the Transaction Volume, Number of Loans in the same period. We have been successful in increasing the level of loan automation on the platform over the past few years while simultaneously holding fraud rates constant and at very low levels. We believe our growth over the last several years has been driven in part by our ability to rapidly streamline and automate the loan application and origination process on our platform. We expect growth of the percentage of loans fully automated to subside in the near term. However, the expansion of our loan offerings may cause it to fluctuate from period to period depending on the loan offering mix and other external factors. Our Percentage of Loans Fully Automated increased to 84% for the three months ended March 31, 2023 from 74% in the same period of 2022, driven primarily by elimination or automation of previously manual processes. Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin To derive Contribution Profit, we subtract from revenue from fees, net from our borrower acquisition costs as well as our borrower verification and servicing costs. To calculate Contribution Margin we divide Contribution Profit by revenue from fees, net. The following table provides a calculation of Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin: 51 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2023 Revenue from fees, net $ 313,982 $ 117,141 Borrower acquisition costs(1) (123,814) (19,712) Borrower verification and servicing costs(2) (42,327) (29,806) Total direct expenses (166,141) (49,518) Contribution Profit $ 147,841 $ 67,623 Contribution Margin 47 % 58 % _______ (1)Borrower acquisition costs consist of our sales and marketing expenses adjusted to exclude costs not directly attributable to attracting a new borrower, such as payroll-related expenses for our business development and marketing teams, as well as other operational, brand awareness and marketing activities. These costs do not include reorganization expenses associated with the January 2023 Plan. (2)Borrower verification and servicing costs consist of payroll and other personnel-related expenses for personnel engaged in loan onboarding, verification and servicing, as well as servicing system costs. It excludes payroll and personnel-related expenses and stock-based compensation for certain members of our customer operations team whose work is not directly attributable to onboarding and servicing loans. These costs do not include reorganization expenses associated with the January 2023 Plan. See the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsReconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures for a reconciliation of income from operations to Contribution Profit. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin We calculate Adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss) attributable to Upstart Holdings, Inc. common stockholders adjusted to exclude stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expenses, depreciation and amortization, expense on convertible notes, provision for income taxes, and reorganization expenses. We calculate Adjusted EBITDA Margin as Adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin includes interest expense from corporate debt and warehouse credit facilities which is incurred in the course of earning corresponding interest income. See the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsReconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures for a reconciliation of net income (loss) attributable to Upstart Holdings, Inc. common stockholders to Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin. Adjusted Net Income (Loss) and Adjusted Net Income (Loss) Per Share We define Adjusted Net Income (Loss) as net income (loss) attributable to Upstart Holdings, Inc. common stockholders exclusive of stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expenses and reorganization expenses. Adjusted Net Income (Loss) Per Share is calculated by dividing Adjusted Net Income (Loss) Per Share by the weighted-average common shares outstanding. See the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsReconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures for a reconciliation of net income (loss) attributable to Upstart Holdings, Inc. common stockholders to Adjusted Net Income (Loss) and Adjusted Net Income (Loss) per Share. Components of Results of Operations Revenue from Fees, Net Platform and Referral Fees, Net We charge our lending partners platform fees in exchange for usage of our AI lending marketplace, which includes collection of loan application data, underwriting of credit risk, verification and fraud detection, and the delivery of electronic loan offers and associated documentation. We also charge referral fees to our lending partners 52 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) in exchange for the referral of borrowers from Upstart.com. Referral fees are charged to lending partners on a per borrower basis upon origination of a loan. These fees are charged net of any fees the lending partner charges Upstart. Upstart pays these lending partners a one-time loan premium fee upon completion of the minimum holding periods. Upstart also pays lending partners monthly loan trailing fees based on the amount and timing of principal and interest payments made by borrowers of the underlying loans. Refer to Note 2. Revenue to our condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information about loan premium fees and trailing fees. Servicing and Other Fees, Net Servicing fees are calculated as a percentage of outstanding principal and are charged monthly to any entities holding loans facilitated through our marketplace, to compensate us for activities we perform throughout the loan term, including collection, processing and reconciliations of payments received, institutional investor reporting and borrower customer support. Servicing fees are recorded net of any gains, losses or changes to fair value recognized in the underlying servicing rights and obligations, which are carried as assets and liabilities on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. Upstart currently acts as loan-servicer for substantially all outstanding loans facilitated through the Upstart marketplace. Borrower payment collections for loans that are more than 30 days past due or charged off are generally outsourced to third-party collection agencies. Upstart charges lending partners and institutional investors for collection agency fees related to their outstanding loan portfolio. Upstart also receives certain ancillary fees on a per transaction basis inclusive of late payment fees and ACH fail fees. Interest Income and Fair Value Adjustments, Net Interest income and fair value adjustments, net is comprised of interest income, interest expense and net changes in the fair value of financial instruments held on our condensed consolidated balance sheets as part of our ongoing operating activities, excluding loan servicing assets and liabilities. Interest income and fair value adjustments, net also includes income from our capital market programs and realized gain (loss) on the sale of loans. Interest income and fair value adjustments, net can fluctuate based on the fair value of financial instruments held on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. This amount has historically been a small percentage of our total revenue, and we do not manage our business with a focus on growing this component of revenue. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of costs incurred across various advertising channels, including expenses for partnerships with third parties providing borrower referrals, direct mail and digital advertising campaigns, as well as other expenses associated with building overall brand awareness and experiential marketing costs. Sales and marketing expenses also include payroll and other personnel-related costs, including stock-based compensation expense. These costs are recognized in the period incurred. We expect that our sales and marketing expenses will generally increase in absolute dollars and may fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue from period to period as we hire additional sales and marketing personnel, increase our marketing activities and build greater brand awareness. Customer Operations Customer operations expenses include payroll and other personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation expense, for personnel engaged in borrower onboarding, loan servicing, customer support and other operational teams. These costs also include systems, third-party services and tools we use as part of loan servicing, information verification, fraud detection and payment processing activities. These costs are recognized in the period incurred. We expect that our customer operations expenses will increase in absolute dollars and may fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue over time, as we expand our portfolio. Engineering and Product Development 53 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Engineering and product development expenses primarily consist of payroll and other personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation expense, for the engineering and product development teams as well as the costs of systems and tools used by these teams. These costs are recognized in the period incurred. We expect that our engineering and product development expenses will increase in absolute dollars and may increase as a percentage of our total revenue over time, as we expand our engineering and product development team to continue to improve our AI models and develop new products and product enhancements. General, Administrative and Other General, administrative and other expenses consist primarily of payroll and other personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation expense, for legal and compliance, finance and accounting, human resources and facilities teams, as well as depreciation and amortization of property, equipment, software, and intangibles, professional services fees, facilities and travel expenses. These costs are recognized in the period incurred. We expect to increase the size of our general and administrative function to support the further growth of our business. As a result, we expect that our general, administrative and other expenses will increase in absolute dollars but may fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue from period to period. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net primarily consists of interest expense on our convertible notes and charitable donations during the three months ended March 31, 2022. During the three months ended March 31, 2023 other income (expense), net primarily consists of interest expense on our convertible notes and dividend income earned on our unrestricted cash balances. Results of Operations The following table summarizes our historical condensed consolidated statements of operations data: 54 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2023 Revenue: Revenue from fees, net $ 313,982 $ 117,141 Interest income and fair value adjustments, net: Interest income 15.134 45,315 Interest expense (959) (7,132) Fair value and other adjustments (18.021) (52,397) Interest income and fair value adjustments, net (3,846) (14,214) Total revenue 310,136 102,927 Operating expenses(1): Sales and marketing 133,449 31,438 Customer operations 48,407 40,590 Engineering and product development 49,991 110,071 General, administrative, and other 43,456 52,663 Total operating expenses 275,303 234,762 Income (loss) from operations 34,833 (131,835) Other income (expense), net (2,122) 2,597 Net income (loss) before income taxes 32,711 (129,238) Provision for income taxes 19 16 Net income (loss) $ 32,692 $ (129,254) ________ (1)Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2023 Sales and marketing $ 2,238 $ 3,372 Customer operations 1,619 2,882 Engineering and product development 13,634 56,660 General, administrative, and other 7,559 11,195 Total stock-based compensation $ 25,050 $ 74,109 Revenue Revenue from Fees, Net The following table sets forth our revenue from fees, net in the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2022 2023 $ % Platform and referral fees, net $ 271,812 $ 77,657 $ (194,155) (71) % Servicing and other fees, net 42,170 39,484 (2,686) (6) % Total revenue from fees, net $ 313,982 $ 117,141 $ (196,841) (63) % Revenue from fees, net decreased $196.8 million, or 63%, in the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to the prior period, which included a decrease of $194.2 million in revenue from platform and referral 55 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) fees, net. and a decrease of $2.7 million in servicing and other fees, net. The decrease of the platform and referral fees, net was primarily driven by an 81.9% decrease in the Transaction Volume, Number of Loans from 465,537 in the three months ended March 31, 2022 to 84,084 in the same period in 2023, which was partially offset by increases in prices of our services. Interest Income and Fair Value Adjustments, Net Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2022 2023 $ % Interest income $ 15,134 $ 45,315 $ 30,181 199 % Interest expense (959) (7,132) (6,173) (644) % Fair value adjustments, net (18,021) (52,397) (34,376) (191) % Total interest income and fair value adjustments, net $ (3,846) $ (14,214) $ (10,368) (270) % For the three months ended March 31, 2023, interest income and fair value adjustments, net decreased $10.4 million, or 270%, compared to the prior period. The decrease was primarily driven by a $25.2 million increase in unfavorable fair value adjustments for the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022, which includes an unrealized loss as a negative fair value adjustment of $17.0 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2023 that the Company recorded in connection with a planned sale of a pool of Upstart-powered loans, subsequent to March 31, 2023. Refer to Note 14, Subsequent events, for additional details. The Company also recognized a $7.9 million of realized loss on the sale of loans compared to a $1.3 million gain on loan sales in the prior period. The changes were primarily due to the rising interest rate environment and higher loan delinquency rates. The increase in the negative fair value adjustments was partially offset by an increase in interest income due to an increase in unpaid principal balance of loans held on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2022 2023 $ % Sales and marketing $ 133,449 $ 31,438 $ (102,011) (76) % % of revenue 43 % 31 % Sales and marketing expenses decreased by $102.0 million, or 76%, in the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to the prior period. The decrease was primarily due to a $104.1 million decrease in advertising and other traffic acquisition cost. As a percentage of total revenue, sales and marketing expenses decreased from 43% to 31%. Customer Operations Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2022 2023 $ % Customer operations $ 48,407 $ 40,590 $ (7,817) (16)% % of revenue 16 % 39 % Customer operations expenses decreased by $7.8 million, or 16%, in the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to the prior period. The decrease was primarily due to a $6.4 million decrease in payroll and other personnel-related expenses. As a percentage of total revenue, customer operations expenses increased from 16% to 39%. 56 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Engineering and Product Development Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2022 2023 $ % Engineering and product development $ 49,991 $ 110,071 $ 60,080 120 % % of revenue 16 % 107 % Engineering and product development expenses increased by $60.1 million, or 120%, for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to the prior period. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $56.9 million in payroll and other personnel-related expenses driven by an expense related to the cancellation of PRSUs, an increase in headcount, and severance payments under the January 2023 Plan. As a percentage of total revenue, engineering and product development expenses increased from 16% to 107%. General, Administrative, and Other Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2022 2023 $ % General, administrative, and other $ 43,456 $ 52,663 $ 9,207 21 % % of revenue 14 % 51 % General, administrative, and other expenses increased by $9.2 million, or 21%, for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to the prior period. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $8.6 million in payroll and personnel-related costs as a result of increased headcount and severance payments under the January 2023 Plan. As a percentage of total revenue, general, administrative, and other expenses increased from 14% to 51%. Other Income(Expense), Net Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2022 2023 $ % Other income (expense), net $ (2,122) $ 2,597 $ 4,719 222 % In the three months ended March 31, 2023, other income (expense), net increased by $4.7 million, or 222%, compared to the prior period. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $3.7 million in dividend income as yields on sweep investments have increased due to rising interest rates. Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures To supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP, we use the non-GAAP financial measures of Contribution Profit, Contribution Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin, and Adjusted Net Income (Loss) and Adjusted Net Income (Loss) Per Share to provide investors with additional information about our financial performance and to enhance the overall understanding of our past performance and future prospects. We are presenting these non-GAAP financial measures because we believe they provide an additional tool for investors to use in comparing our core financial performance over multiple periods with the performance of other companies. However, non-GAAP financial measures have limitations in their usefulness to investors because they have no standardized meaning prescribed by GAAP and are not prepared under any comprehensive set of accounting 57 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) rules or principles. In addition, non-GAAP financial measures may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be directly comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies. As a result, non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed as supplementing, and not as an alternative or substitute for, our condensed consolidated financial statements prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP. To address these limitations, we provide a reconciliation of Contribution Profit, Contribution Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin, and Adjusted Net Income (Loss) and Adjusted Net Income (Loss) Per Share to income (loss) from operations and net income (loss) attributable to Upstart Holdings, Inc. common stockholders, respectively. We encourage investors and others to review our financial information in its entirety, not to rely on any single financial measure and to view Contribution Profit, Contribution Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin, Adjusted Net Income (Loss), and Adjusted Net Income (Loss) Per Share in conjunction with their respective related GAAP financial measures. Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin We use Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin as part of our overall assessment of performance, including the preparation of our annual operating budget and quarterly forecasts, to evaluate the effectiveness of our business strategies, and to communicate with our Board of Directors concerning our financial performance. We believe Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin are useful to investors for period-to-period comparisons of our business and in evaluating and understanding our operating results and ability to scale. Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin are also useful to investors because our management uses Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin, in conjunction with financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP, to evaluate our operating results and financial performance and the effectiveness of our strategies. Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin have limitations as an analytical tool, and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin are not GAAP financial measures of, nor do they imply, profitability. Even if our revenue exceeds variable expenses over time, we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability, and the relationship of revenue to variable expenses is not necessarily indicative of future performance. Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin do not reflect all of our variable expenses and involve some judgment and discretion around what costs vary directly with loan volume. Other companies that present Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin may calculate it differently and, therefore, similarly titled measures presented by other companies may not be directly comparable to ours. The following table presents a reconciliation of income (loss) from operations to Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin. We define Operating Margin as our income (loss) from operations divided by revenue from fees, net. Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2023 Revenue from fees, net $ 313,982 $ 117,141 Income (loss) from operations 34,833 (131,835) Operating Margin 11 % (113) % Sales and marketing, net of borrower acquisition costs(1) $ 9,635 $ 11,726 Customer operations, net of borrower verification and servicing costs(2) 6,080 10,784 Engineering and product development 49,991 110,071 General, administrative, and other 43,456 52,663 Interest income and fair value adjustments, net 3,846 14,214 Contribution Profit $ 147,841 $ 67,623 Contribution Margin 47 % 58 % _________ 58 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) (1)Borrower acquisition costs were $123.8 million and $19.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2023 respectively. Borrower acquisition costs consist of our sales and marketing expenses adjusted to exclude costs not directly attributable to attracting a new borrower, such as payroll-related expenses for our business development and marketing teams, as well as other operational, brand awareness and marketing activities. These costs do not include reorganization expenses associated with the January 2023 Plan. (2)Borrower verification and servicing costs were $42.3 million and $29.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2023, respectively. Borrower verification and servicing costs consist of payroll and other personnel-related expenses for personnel engaged in loan onboarding, verification and servicing, as well as servicing system costs. It excludes payroll and personnel-related expenses and stock-based compensation for certain members of our customer operations team whose work is not directly attributable to onboarding and servicing loans. These costs do not include reorganization expenses associated with the January 2023 Plan. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin We believe that Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin are useful for investors to use in comparing our financial performance with the performance of other companies for the following reasons: Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin are widely used by investors and securities analysts to measure a companys operating performance without regard to items such as depreciation, and interest expense, that can vary substantially from company to company depending upon their financing and capital structures, and the method by which assets were acquired; and Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin eliminate the impact of certain items such as stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense, warrant expense, acquisition-related costs, and reorganization expenses that may obscure trends in the underlying performance of our business; and Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin provide consistency and comparability with our past financial performance, and facilitate comparisons with other companies, many of which use similar non-GAAP financial measures to supplement their GAAP results. Our use of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin has limitations as an analytical tool, and these measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our financial results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are as follows: Although depreciation expense is a non-cash charge, the assets being depreciated may have to be replaced in the future, and Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin does not reflect cash capital expenditure requirements for such replacements or for new capital expenditure requirements; Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin exclude stock-based compensation expense and certain employer payroll taxes on employee stock transactions. Stock-based compensation expense has been, and will continue to be for the foreseeable future, a significant recurring expense for our business and an important part of our compensation strategy. The amount of employer payroll tax-related expense on employee stock transactions is dependent on our stock price and other factors that are beyond our control and which not correlate to the operation of the business; Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin do not reflect: (1) changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs; (2) interest expense, or the cash requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments on our debt, which reduces cash available to us; or (3) tax payments that may represent a reduction in cash available to us; and the expenses and other items that we exclude in our calculation of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin may differ from the expenses and other items, if any, that other companies may exclude from Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin when they report their operating results. Because of these limitations, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin should be considered along with other operating and financial performance measures presented in accordance with GAAP. The following table provides a reconciliation of net income (loss) attributable to Upstart Holdings, Inc. common stockholders and net income (loss) attributable to Upstart Holdings, Inc. common stockholders margin to Adjusted EBITDA Margin. We define Net Income (Loss) Margin as net income (loss) attributable to Upstart Holdings, Inc. common stockholders divided by total revenue. 59 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2023 Total revenue $ 310,136 $ 102,927 Net income (loss) 32,692 (129,254) Net Income (Loss) Margin 11 % (126) % Adjusted to exclude the following: Stock-based compensation and certain payroll tax expenses(1) $ 25,929 $ 75,026 Depreciation and amortization 2,781 6,441 Reorganization expenses 15,536 Expense on convertible notes 1,169 1,174 Provision for income taxes 19 16 Adjusted EBITDA $ 62,590 $ (31,061) Adjusted EBITDA Margin 20 % (30) % _________ (1)Payroll tax expenses include the employer payroll tax-related expense on employee stock transactions, as the amount is dependent on our stock price and other factors that are beyond our control and do not correlate to the operation of our business. Adjusted Net Income (Loss) and Adjusted Net Income (Loss) Per Share We define Adjusted Net Income (Loss) as net income (loss) attributable to Upstart Holdings, Inc. common stockholders exclusive of stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense and reorganization expenses. Adjusted Net Income (Loss) Per Share is calculated by dividing Adjusted Net Income (Loss) Per Share by the weighted-average common shares outstanding. We believe Adjusted Net Income (Loss) and Adjusted Net Income (Loss) Per Share are useful measures for investors in evaluating our ability to generate earnings, more readily compare between past and future periods, and provide comparability of our performance with the performance of other companies. Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2023 Net income (loss) $ 32,692 $ (129,254) Adjusted to exclude the following: Stock-based compensation and certain payroll tax expenses(1) 25,929 75,026 Reorganization expenses 15,536 Adjusted Net Income (Loss) $ 58,621 $ (38,692) Net income (loss) per share: Basic $ 0.39 $ (1.58) Diluted $ 0.34 $ (1.58) Adjusted Net Income (Loss) per Share: Basic $ 0.70 $ (0.47) Diluted $ 0.61 $ (0.47) Weighted-average common shares outstanding: Basic 84,230,445 81,911,433 Diluted 95,457,776 81,911,433 _________ (1)Payroll tax expenses includes the amount of employer payroll tax-related expense on employee stock transactions, as the amount is dependent on our stock price and other factors that are beyond our control and do not correlate to the operation of our business. 60 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources and Uses of Cash Since inception, we have financed our operations, corporate investments, and capital expenditures primarily through the sale of convertible preferred stock, convertible promissory notes, term loans and draws on our revolving credit facilities, and cash generated from operations. As of March 31, 2023, our primary source of liquidity was cash of $386.9 million. We also held $5.0 million of investments in certificates of deposit with maturities greater than three months as of March 31, 2023. Certificates of deposit provide a secondary source of liquidity since they can be converted into cash in a timely manner. Changes in the balance of cash are generally a result of working capital fluctuations and the timing of purchases and sales of loans facilitated through our marketplace. To finance purchases of certain loans facilitated through our lending marketplace, we rely on our warehouse credit facilities through the special-purpose trusts, or the warehouse trusts and corporate cash. Our convertible senior notes have a principal balance of $661.3 million and bear interest at a rate of 0.25% per year, payable semiannually in arrears on February 15 and August 15 of each year. The Notes mature on August 15, 2026 unless earlier converted, redeemed, or repurchased in accordance with their terms. Refer to Note 8. Borrowings in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further details on our Notes. Our warehouse credit facilities, which mature in 2024, allow us to borrow up to $175.0 million under the ULT Warehouse Credit Facility to purchase unsecured personal loans and up to $200.0 million under the UAWT Warehouse Credit Facility to purchase secured auto loans. As of March 31, 2023, we have drawn an aggregate of $350.2 million on our warehouse credit facilities. Refer to Note 8. Borrowings in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further details on our warehouse credit facilities. We lease office facilities under operating lease agreements which expire between 2027 and 2032. Our cash requirements related to these lease agreements are $116.6 million, of which $15.7 million is expected to be paid within the next 12 months. Refer to Note 10. Leases in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further details on our operating lease obligations. We have committed to purchase loans from certain lending partners at the conclusion of the required holding period, which is generally equal to three business days. As of March 31, 2023, the total loan purchase commitment was $15.3 million. See Note 11. Commitments and Contingencies in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further details on our loan purchase obligations. We are actively pursuing committed capital arrangements for our platform. We have signed agreements with investors that include risk and upside sharing for both under and over performance for us and the investor for loans purchased under these arrangements These arrangements sometimes meet the definition of a derivative and their value is classified as an asset or a liability in other assets or other liabilities, respectively, in the condensed consolidated balance sheets. Refer to Note 4. Derivative Financial Instruments and Note 15. Subsequent Events for further details. While we believe that our cash on hand and our cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our liquidity needs for at least the next 12 months, our future capital requirements will depend on multiple factors, including our revenue growth, working capital requirements, volume of loan purchases for product development purposes or during market downturns, and our capital expenditures. We may decide to raise additional capital through the sale of equity, equity-linked or debt securities or other debt financing arrangements. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or equity-linked securities, our stockholders may experience dilution. Future debt financing, if available, may involve covenants restricting our operations or our ability to incur additional debt. Any debt or equity financing that we raise may contain terms that are not favorable to us or our stockholders. Further, if 61 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) we are unable to raise additional capital when our cash balances and cash generated by operations are insufficient to satisfy liquidity needs, our results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely impacted. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows during the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2023 Net cash used in operating activities $ (266,795) $ (75,727) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 5,177 (25,852) Net cash provided by financing activities 83,071 20,971 Decrease in cash and restricted cash $ (178,547) $ (80,608) Net Cash from Operating Activities Our main sources of cash provided by operating activities are our revenue from fees earned under contracts with lending partners and institutional investors and interest income we receive for loans held on our balance sheet. Our main uses of cash in our operating activities include payments to marketing partners, vendor payments, payroll and other personnel-related expenses, payments for facilities, and other general business expenditures. Net cash used in operating activities was $75.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, which primarily consisted of a decrease of $82.2 million in net operating assets and liabilities, adjustments for non-cash items of $136.7 million, and net loss of $129.3 million. The decrease in net operating assets and liabilities was primarily related to $510.0 million in purchases of loans held-for-sale, $49.7 million decrease in payable to investors, and $19.2 million decrease in accrued expenses and other liabilities, partially offset by $449.3 million in proceeds from the sale of loans classified as held-for-sale and $57.9 million in principal payments received for loans held-for-sale. Net Cash from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $25.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 as a result of $46.4 million purchases of loans held-for-investment and $4.3 million in capitalized software, partially offset by $24.4 million in principal payments received for loans held-for-investment. Net Cash from Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $21.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 as a result of $60.7 million proceeds from borrowings and $5.7 million in proceeds from issuance of common stock under ESPP, partially offset by $47.0 million in payments on borrowings. Composition of Retained Loan Portfolio As of March 31, 2023, we held $982.2 million of loans on our condensed consolidated balance sheet. $493.1 million of these loans were originated for research and development purposes, primarily in support of our auto lending products and expansion of our unsecured personal loan product to new categories of borrowers. We also held $489.1 million of core personal loans which would otherwise be immediately purchased by institutional investors. We will continue to utilize our capital to support research and development activities and, at times, as a funding source for core personal loans during periods of marketplace funding constraints. The extent and timing of utilizing our capital as a funding source for loans will largely depend on the availability of capital in our marketplace 62 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) relative to the demand from qualified borrowers and our business priorities. We plan to sell retained loans to institutional investors over time in the form of secondary sales or securitizations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements In the ordinary course of business, we engage in activities that are not reflected on our condensed consolidated balance sheets, generally referred to as off-balance sheet arrangements. These activities involve transactions with unconsolidated VIEs, including our sponsored and co-sponsored securitization transactions, which we contractually service. We use these transactions to provide a source of liquidity to finance our business and to diversify our institutional investor base. If we are the retaining sponsor, we are required by law to retain at least 5% of the credit risk of the securities issued in these securitizations. We provide additional information regarding transactions with unconsolidated VIEs in Note 3. Variable Interest Entities in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ significantly from our estimates. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. Our critical accounting policies are described in Part II, Item 7, Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. There have been no changes to these policies for the three months ended March 31, 2023. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 1. Description of Business and Significant Accounting Policies in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for recently adopted accounting pronouncements and recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted as of March 31, 2023.