Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 3 Item 2. Properties. We lease approximately 2,100 square feet for our corporate headquarters, sales, marketing, development and customer support divisions located in New York, New York 10016 under a lease expiring in August 2018. We lease approximately 8,200 square feet for our warehouse and office located in West Babylon, New York 11704 under a lease expiring in December 2019. We believe that our existing facilities are suitable and adequate and that we have sufficient capacity to meet our current anticipated needs. None of these facilities are critical to our operations because suitable alternatives are available in substantially all of the locations where we conduct business. We continuously review our anticipated requirements for facilities and, on the basis of that review, may from time to time acquire or lease additional facilities and/or dispose of existing facilities. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. On May 29, 2014, Samsung Telecommunications America, LLC (Samsung) filed suit in the Dallas County, Texas State District Court against BST Distribution, Inc. (BST) alleging that the Company breached a Distribution Agreement and seeking approximately $152,000 in damages and attorneys fees. BST has counterclaimed against Samsung alleging fraud and misrepresentation, breach of contract and estoppel and is seeking to recover out of pocket damages and lost profits, as well as attorneys fees. The case is consolidated with a case filed by We Sell Cellular arising out of the same or similar facts against Samsung alleging fraud and misrepresentation, breach of contract and estoppel. We Sell Cellular is seeking recovery of out of pocket damages, lost profits and attorney fees. Samsung counter claimed against We Sell Cellular alleging breach of contract seeking approximately $152,000 in damages plus attorney fees. The consolidated cases are in the discovery phase of litigation. In connection with the acquisition of BST by uSell, Brian and Scott Tepfer, BSTs then sole shareholders, agreed to pay all further litigation costs and pay any adverse judgement or settlement amount in exchange for retaining any sums BST may recover from Samsung. From time to time, we are periodically a party to or otherwise involved in legal proceedings arising in the normal and ordinary course of business. As of the date of this report, we are not aware of any proceeding, threatened or pending, against us which, if determined adversely, would have a material effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. Not applicable . PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Markets, Inc. under the symbol USEL. As of March 29, 2016, the last reported sale price of our common stock as reported by the OTC Markets was $0.87 per share. As of that date, there were approximately 126 shareholders of record. This number does not include beneficial owners whose shares are held in the names of various securities brokers, dealers and registered clearing agencies. All share and per share information in the table below reflects the 1-for-15 reverse stock split which was effected on January 21, 2014. The following table provides the high and low bid price information for our common stock for the periods indicated which reflect inter-dealer prices, without retail mark-up, mark-down or commission and may not necessarily represent actual transactions. Year Quarter Ended Stock Price High Low ($) ($) 2015 December 31 2.00 0.72 September 30 1.25 0.67 June 30 1.73 0.72 March 31 2.01 1.00 2014 December 31 2.78 1.82 September 30 4.02 2.46 June 30 4.98 2.85 March 31 5.42 3.37 4 Dividend Policy We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not plan to pay any such dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to use all available funds to develop our business. We can give no assurances that we will ever have excess funds available to pay dividends. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities None Item 6. Selected Financial Data. Not required for smaller reporting companies. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this report on Form 10-K. In addition to historical information, this discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including but not limited to those set forth under Risk Factors. Overview of 2015 Events Acquisition of We Sell Cellular On October 26, 2015, pursuant to a Stock Purchase Agreement (SPA), we acquired BST Distribution, Inc., (BST), which owns We Sell Cellular, a company primarily engaged in the wholesale acquisition and resale of smartphones and related devices from carriers and big box stores. The total consideration paid for the acquisition amounted to $14,626,000, which consisted of the issuance of 9,358,837 shares of our common stock to Brian Tepfer and Scott Tepfer (together, the Tepfers), the former owners of BST, valued at $10,388,000, cash of $3,108,000 and certain Placement Rights (as defined below), valued at $1,130,000. See Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further description. In accordance with the SPA, if the Tepfers elect to sell shares of our common stock, we will use our best efforts to assist the Tepfers in selling their shares of common stock acquired under the SPA for up to $6,000,000 in gross proceeds (together and not each) through private placements or public offerings, with target sales of $1,500,000 quarterly, commencing with the quarter ending December 31, 2015 (Placement Rights). If the price per share received by the Tepfers is less than the greater of $1.20 or the product of an EBITDA-based formula, we will issue the Tepfers additional shares of common stock. The Tepfers did not elect to sell shares of common stock during the quarters ending December 31, 2015 and March 31, 2016. In addition, pursuant to the SPA, we granted the Tepfers certain piggyback registration rights and a right of first refusal to participate in future financings. We also created a pool of 350,000 restricted stock units, shares of restricted stock and options which can be granted to employees of We Sell Cellular designated by the Tepfers and a similar pool for parent company employees designated by our Chief Executive Officer. A total of 655,000 shares were awarded including 55,000 options during the year ended December 31, 2015. The operating results for We Sell Cellular are included in the consolidated financial statements from the effective date of acquisition of October 26, 2015 through December 31, 2015. Note Purchase Agreement On October 23, 2015 (the Note Closing Date), in connection with the acquisition of We Sell Cellular, we entered into a Note Purchase Agreement (NPA) with BAM Administrative Services, LLC (BAM), as agent, and an institutional investor (the Purchaser), pursuant to which we issued and sold the Purchaser a 1% original issue discount Secured Term Note in the aggregate principal amount of $4,040,000 (the Initial Note) in exchange for gross proceeds of $4,000,000. Within six months of the Note Closing Date, we may, subject to certain conditions, elect to receive up to two additional draws of funds in connection with the issuance of additional 1% original issue discount Secured Term Note (the Deferred Draw Notes, and with the Initial Note, the Notes). The NPA provides that the Company may elect to receive a total of another $4,000,000 under the Deferred Draw Notes in compliance with the covenants under the NPA. The Notes mature three years from the Note Closing Date and accrue interest at 13% annually, which is payable monthly in arrears, beginning November 1, 2015. Repayment of principal commences seven months from the Note Closing Date in monthly installments of 1/48 th of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes. The Notes are prepayable at 103%, beginning one year from the Note Closing Date, in increments of $500,000. See page 6 for a description of the amendment to the NPA that will delay the initial amortization date to September 1, 2017. 5 In connection with the issuance of the Initial Note, we issued the Purchaser 740,000 shares of its common stock. On December 1, 2015, we elected to borrow an additional $2,000,000 and issued the Purchaser a Deferred Draw Note in the principal amount of $2,020,000 and issued the Purchaser an additional 120,000 shares of common stock. To the extent that the Deferred Draw Notes are issued, we will issue the Purchaser an additional 60,000 shares per $1,000,000 of principal amount of Deferred Draw Notes issued. We granted the Purchaser piggyback registration rights with respect to the shares issued in connection with the Note. We also granted the Purchaser a right of first refusal to participate in future financings, where the future purpose of the proceeds is to acquire additional inventory. The right of first refusal expires upon the earlier of (i) 18 months from the Note Closing Date or (ii) such time as the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Note is less than $1,500,000. The right of first refusal does not cover conventional public and private securities offerings. In connection with the execution of the NPA and issuance of the Note, the Company, BST, We Sell Cellular and certain of their wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, the Debtors) entered into a Security Agreement for the benefit of BAM and the Purchaser as secured parties. Pursuant to the Security Agreement, the Debtors granted the secured parties a lien on all of the Debtors respective assets, including, but not limited to, equipment, inventory, accounts, and intellectual property. The wholly-owned subsidiaries party to the Security Agreement also jointly and severally guaranteed payment and performance of all obligations under the Notes and related transaction documents. As additional collateral to guarantee the Notes and related obligations, the Company, BST and We Sell Cellular also entered into a Pledge Agreement for the benefit of BAM and the Purchaser pursuant to which they pledged the equity interests of certain of their wholly-owned subsidiaries, including BST and We Sell Cellular. Under a Collateral Assignment Agreement, we also assigned BAM, as agent for the Purchaser, all of its rights under the SPA. On March 30, 2016, the Company and BAM entered into an agreement to modify the NPA and take the following steps: The Company will issue the Second Deferred Draw Note and receive an additional $2 million; The Purchaser will receive an additional 350,000 shares of restricted common stock, consisting of the 120,000 shares required by the original NPA for each $2 million borrowed under the Deferred Draw Notes and an additional 230,000 shares as consideration for the favorable modification listed below; The interest rate will be increased by one-quarter of one percent (25 basis points); The EBITDA covenants will not apply until September 2017; The amortization period of the principal will not commence until September 1, 2017; The Company will get 75% credit for new purchase orders towards the borrowing base of the facility instead of the current 50%; and The Company will get a 90% credit for inventory in transit towards the borrowing base instead of the current 75%. The Company expects to close the remaining $2 million on or shortly after the filing of this Report, since all required steps have been taken and all signatures and the stock are being held in escrow pending funding. 2015 Financial Highlights As a result of the We Sell Cellular acquisition, our business was fundamentally transformed and our financial situation substantially improved. The financials contained within this Form 10K reflect just over two months of joint operations, as the acquisition was consummated in the last week of October, 2015. Key financial metrics were as follows: Working capital increased to $5,597,000 at December 31, 2015 from $1,684,000 at December 31, 2014. Stockholders equity increased to $13,990,000 at December 31, 2015 from $2,569,000 at December 31, 2014. Revenues increased by $20,429,000, or 306%, from $6,665,000 for the year ended December 31, 2014 to $27,094,000 for the year ended December 31, 2015. Net loss decreased by $4,656,000, or 64%, from $7,288,000 for the year ended December 31, 2014 to $2,632,000 for the year ended December 31, 2015. Net loss decreased from $1,386,000 for the quarter ended December 31, 2014 to $333,000 for the quarter ended December 31, 2015. Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure, improved from ($3,619,000) for the year ended December 31, 2014 to ($795,000) for the year ended December 31, 2015. See Non-GAAP Financial Measure - Adjusted EBITDA below. Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure, improved from ($780,000) for the quarter ended December 31, 2014 to $321,000 for the quarter ended December 31, 2015. See Non-GAAP Financial Measure - Adjusted EBITDA below. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements contained herein for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. 6 Critical Accounting Policies In response to financial reporting release FR-60, Cautionary Advice Regarding Disclosure About Critical Accounting Policies, from the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), we have selected our more subjective accounting estimation processes for purposes of explaining the methodology used in calculating the estimate, in addition to the inherent uncertainties pertaining to the estimate and the possible effects on the our financial condition. The accounting estimates are discussed below and involve certain assumptions that if incorrect could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements contained herein for further discussion regarding our critical accounting policies and estimates. Capitalized Technology Costs In accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 350-40, Internal-Use Software, we capitalize certain external and internal computer software costs incurred during the application development stage. The application development stage generally includes software design and configuration, coding, testing and installation activities. Training and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred, while upgrades and enhancements are capitalized if it is probable that such expenditures will result in additional functionality. Capitalized technology costs are amortized over the estimated useful lives of the software assets on a straight-line basis, generally not exceeding three years. Business Combinations ASC 805, Business Combinations (ASC 805), applies the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations to all acquisitions where the acquirer gains a controlling interest, regardless of whether consideration was exchanged. ASC 805 establishes principles and requirements for how the acquirer: a) recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any non-controlling interest in the acquiree; b) recognizes and measures the goodwill acquired in the business combination or a gain from a bargain purchase; and c) determines what information to disclose to enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. Accounting for acquisitions requires us to recognize, separately from goodwill, the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at their acquisition-date fair values. Goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess of consideration transferred and the net of the acquisition-date fair values of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. While we use our best estimates and assumptions to accurately value assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date, the estimates are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. As a result, during the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, we may record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period or final determination of the values of assets acquired or liabilities assumed, whichever comes first, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to the consolidated statements of comprehensive loss. Goodwill and Intangible Assets We account for goodwill and intangible assets in accordance with ASC 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other (ASC 350). ASC 350 requires that goodwill and other intangibles with indefinite lives should be tested for impairment annually or on an interim basis if events or circumstances indicate that the fair value of an asset has decreased below its carrying value. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level (operating segment or one level below an operating segment) on an annual basis and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. We consider our market capitalization and the carrying value of our assets and liabilities, including goodwill, when performing the goodwill impairment test. When conducting the annual goodwill impairment assessment, we initially perform a qualitative evaluation of whether it is more likely than not that goodwill is impaired. If it is determined by a qualitative evaluation that it is more likely than not that goodwill is impaired, we then apply a two-step impairment test. The two-step impairment test first compares the fair value of our reporting unit to its carrying or book value. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill is not impaired and we are not required to perform further testing. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, we determine the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill and if the carrying value of the reporting unit's goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, then an impairment loss equal to the difference is recorded in the consolidated statements of operations. Intangible assets represent customer relationships and trade names/trademarks related to We Sell Cellular. Finite lived assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Indefinite lived intangible assets are not amortized, but instead are subject to impairment evaluation. We periodically review the carrying values of our intangible assets and other long-lived assets when events or changes in circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that their carrying values may exceed their fair values, and record an impairment charge when considered necessary. When circumstances indicate that an impairment of value may have occurred, we test such assets for recoverability by comparing the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use of such assets and their eventual disposition to their carrying amounts. If the undiscounted future cash flows are less than the carrying amount of the asset, an impairment loss, measured as the excess of the carrying amount of the asset over its estimated fair value, is recognized. The cash flow estimates used in such calculations are based on estimates and assumptions, using all available information that management believes is reasonable. Fair value, for purposes of calculating impairment, is measured based on estimated future cash flows, discounted at a market rate of interest. 7 Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized when all of the following conditions exist: (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (2) delivery has occurred, (3) the sales price is fixed or determinable, and (4) collectability is reasonably assured. Principal Device Revenue Through our We Sell Cellular subsidiary, we generate revenue from the sale of our cellular telephones and related equipment and recognize revenue FOB shipping point. Delivery to the customer is deemed to have occurred when the customer takes title to the product. Generally, title passes to the customer when the products leave our warehouse. Payment terms generally require payment once an order is placed. We allow customers to return product within 30 days of shipment if the product is defective. Allowances for product returns are recorded as a reduction of sales at the time revenue is recognized based on historical data. Under our Managed by uSell service on uSell.com, which was launched in October 2014, we partner with a third party logistics company to inspect, wipe and process devices before passing them along to buyers. Under this model, title to a device passes to uSell upon issuance of payment to the seller, which is generally within one to two days from the receipt of the device at the third party warehouse. Title to a device is then transferred to the buyer upon shipment to the buyer. Agent Commission Revenue In certain cases, sellers on our uSell.com website are shown a larger list of offers directly from third party buyers interested in purchasing their devices. These offers are shown instead of or in addition to the Managed by uSell offer. If a seller chooses one of these offers, s/he ships his/her device directly to the buyer, rather than to our third party warehouse. The buyer is then responsible for testing the device, servicing the customer, and ultimately paying the seller for the device or returning it. During 2013, and into 2014, we earned up front lead fees from buyers when sellers accepted such offers on our website and filled out a form to request a free shipping kit. This fee was received regardless of whether the sellers ultimately sent in their devices to the buyers. We recognized revenue upon online acceptance of the buyers offer by the seller. Beginning in February 2014, we began to charge a commission to our buyers only when the seller sent in a device and was successfully paid for it. This approach reduced risk for our buyers and better aligned our incentives with them. We therefore began to recognize Agent Commission Revenue upon payment to the seller. Fulfillment Revenue We offer fulfillment services on behalf of our buyers for the items sold using the Agent Commission Revenue approach outlined above. We act as the agent in these fulfillment services transactions, passing orders booked by our buyers to our third party fulfillment vendor, who then assembles the kits and mails them directly to the sellers. We earn a standard fee from our buyers and recognize revenue upon shipment of the kits to the sellers. We evaluated the presentation of revenue on a gross versus net basis and determined that since we perform as an agent without assuming the risks and rewards of ownership of the goods, revenue should be reported on a net basis. Advertising Revenue Advertising revenues primarily come from payments for text-based sponsored links and display advertisements. Generally, our advertisers pay us on a cost per click, or CPC basis, which means advertisers pay us only when someone clicks on one of their advertisements, or on a cost per thousand impression basis, or CPM. Paying on a CPM basis means that advertisers pay us based on the number of times their advertisements appear on our websites or mobile applications. Advertising revenue is recognized as income when the advertising services are rendered. Share-Based Payment Arrangements We account for stock options in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 718: Compensation - Stock Compensation. ASC 718 requires generally that all equity awards be accounted for at their fair value. This fair value is measured on the grant date for stock-settled awards, and at subsequent exercise or settlement for cash-settled awards. Fair value is equal to the underlying value of the stock for full-value awards such as restricted stock and performance shares, and estimated using an option-pricing model with traditional inputs for appreciation awards such as stock options and stock appreciation rights. 8 Costs equal to these fair values are recognized ratably over the requisite service period based on the number of awards that are expected to vest, or in the period of grant for awards that vest immediately and have no future service condition. For awards that vest over time, cumulative adjustments in later periods are recorded to the extent actual forfeitures differ from our initial estimates: previously recognized compensation cost is reversed if the service or performance conditions are not satisfied and the award is forfeited. The expense resulting from share-based payments is recorded in general and administrative expense. Subsequent modifications to outstanding awards result in incremental cost if the fair value is increased as a result of the modification. Thus, a value-for-value stock option repricing or exchange of awards in conjunction with an equity restructuring does not result in additional compensation cost. Results of Operations Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2015 to the Year Ended December 31, 2014 The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, consolidated statements of operations information: Years Ended December 31, Change Change 2015 2014 (Dollars) (Percentage) Revenue $ 27,093,928 $ 6,665,429 $ 20,428,499 306 % Cost of Revenue 23,549,098 1,921,175 21,627,923 1,126 % Gross Profit 3,544,830 4,744,254 (1,199,424 ) (25 )% Operating Expenses: Sales and Marketing 2,037,371 5,811,873 (3,774,502 ) (65 )% General and Administrative 6,344,539 4,659,710 1,684,829 36 % Total Operating Expenses 8,381,910 10,471,583 (2,089,673 ) (20 )% Operating Loss (4,837,080 ) (5,727,329 ) 890,249 (16 )% Other Expense (188,289 ) (1,561,153 ) 1,372,864 (88 )% Income Tax Benefit (2,392,994 ) - (2,392,994 ) 100 % Net Loss $ (2,632,375 ) $ (7,288,482 ) $ 4,656,107 (64 )% Revenue by Type The following table breaks down our revenue by type: Years Ended December 31, 2015 2014 Principal Device Revenue $ 26,238,124 97 % $ 1,531,227 23 % Agent Commission Revenue 516,232 2 % 4,430,052 66 % Other 339,572 1 % 704,150 11 % $ 27,093,928 100 % $ 6,665,429 100 % Principal Device Revenue increased by $24,707,000, or 1,614%, from $1,531,000 for the year ended December 31, 2014 to $26,238,000 for the year ended December 31, 2015. Agency Commission Revenue decreased by $3,914,000, or 88%, from $4,430,000 for the year ended December 31, 2014 to $516,000 for the year ended December 31, 2015. Principal Device Revenue related to We Sell Cellular amounted $17,646,000 for the period from October 27, 2015 through December 31, 2015. Historically a large part of our retail business utilized the Agent Commission Revenue model, whereby we did not take possession of the devices that were sold by consumers but rather facilitated transactions between these consumers and our network of professional buyers. However, in October 2014, we launched our Managed by uSell service, whereby we partnered with a third party logistics company to inspect and process devices before passing them along to buyers offering the highest prices for each device. By centralizing the inspection process, we standardized the grading procedures for devices, guaranteeing quick processing times and ensuring swift and successful payment to the sellers upon inspection. Through this approach, we take possession of devices for a brief period of time before they are passed on to the ultimate buyer. By the end of 2015, the bulk of our volume through our retail business used this Principal Device Revenue approach. Devices sourced wholesale through our subsidiary, We Sell Cellular, are also bought and sold using the Principal Device Revenue model. Thus, the vast majority of our business is now characterized by this approach. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue increased by $21,628,000 or 1,126% from $1,921,000 for the year ended December 31, 2014 to $23,549,000 for the year ended December 31, 2015. Cost of revenue related to We Sell Cellular amounted to $16,207,000 for the period from October 27, 2015 through December 31, 2015. Prior to the launch of our Managed by uSell service, our cost of revenue for generating transactions for our buyers on uSell.com consisted primarily of costs to access and maintain our website, as well as amortization expense on our technology platform software. Starting in October 2014, cost of revenue pertaining to the sale of devices through our Managed by uSell service began to include the cost of acquiring the device, as well as any other direct costs and expenses required to inspect and process the devices internally before shipping them to the buyers. Furthermore, with the acquisition of We Sell Cellular we saw a substantial increase in Principal Device Revenue associated with the wholesale acquisition and sale of devices. Accordingly, our cost of revenue has increased substantially. 9 Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expense decreased $3,775,000, or 65%, from $5,812,000 during the year ended December 31, 2014 to $2,037,000 during the year ended December 31, 2015 mainly as a result of our decision to strategically reduce our marketing staff and marketing spend in favor of seeking out wholesale supply. With the We Sell Cellular acquisition and our newfound ability to source devices directly from the carriers, retailers, and manufacturers, our primary sales and marketing expenses have shifted from consumer marketing to paying out sales commissions. We believe this shifting profile will enable us to scale volume significantly while maintaining sales and marketing expense as a much lower percentage of sales than in prior years. Sales and marketing include $579,000 of expenses related to We Sell Cellular for the period from October 27, 2015 through December 31, 2015. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses include professional fees for technology, legal and accounting services as well as consulting and internal personnel costs for our back office support functions. General and administrative expenses are impacted by non-cash compensation expense pertaining to share grants and option grants for services. Excluding non-cash compensation expense, our general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2015 increased by $223,000, or 7%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. The increase is mainly attributable to the increase in depreciation and amortization expense. Depreciation and amortization expense increased by $248,000, from $4,530 for the year ended December 31, 2014 to $252,649 for the year ended December 31, 2015, mainly as a result of the amortization of the intangible assets acquired in connection with the We Sell Cellular acquisition. Not included in this amount is $567,000 and $611,000 of amortization expense for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, related to our capitalized technology, which is included in cost of revenues. Offsetting the increase in general and administrative expenses is a decrease in salary and salary-related expenses of $405,000 and professional fees of $206,000. The decrease in salaries and salary related expenses is the result of the reduction in our marketing headcount. Professional fees decreased mainly as a result of lower recruiting fee expense due to our hiring freeze, offset by legal and accounting expenses of $294,000 related to the We Sell Cellular acquisition. General and administrative expenses include $556,000 of expenses related to We Sell Cellular for the period from October 27, 2015 through December 31, 2015. Non-cash compensation expense amounted to $2,954,000 and $1,492,000 for the years ended December 31, 2015 ad 2014, respectively. The increase in compensation expense is mainly the result of the accelerated vesting of previously granted restricted stock units and stock options and the granting of certain restricted stock units in connection with the We Sell Cellular acquisition on October 26, 2015. Other Income (Expenses) Other expense during the year ended December 31, 2015 is primarily comprised of interest expense attributable to the NPA entered into in October 2015 in connection with the We Sell Cellular acquisition. Other income (expense) during the year ended December 31, 2014 resulted primarily from the conversion of our Convertible Notes in February 2014. As a result of the conversion, the remaining unamortized discount of $874,000, as well as the remaining unamortized balance of debt issue costs of $9,000, was recognized as non-cash interest expense. Additionally, we recorded approximately $9,000 of contractual interest expense and approximately $681,000 of derivative expense related to the change in the fair market value of the derivative liability on our Convertible Notes through the date of conversion. Income Tax Benefit The benefit for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2015 relates to the release of the valuation allowance resulting from the deferred tax liability related to the intangible assets acquired from We Sell Cellular. Non-GAAP Financial Measure - Adjusted EBITDA We make reference to Adjusted EBITDA, a measure of financial performance not calculated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). Management has included EBITDA because it believes that investors may find it useful to review our financial results as adjusted to exclude items as determined by management. Reconciliations of this non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, net loss, to the extent available without unreasonable effort, are set forth below. The Company defines Adjusted EBITDA as earnings or (loss) from continuing operations before the items noted in the table below. 10 Management believes Adjusted EBITDA provides a meaningful representation of our operating performance that provides useful information to investors regarding our financial condition and results of operations. Adjusted EBITDA is commonly used by financial analysts and others to measure operating performance. Furthermore, management believes that this non-GAAP financial measure may provide investors with additional meaningful comparisons between current results and results of prior periods as they are expected to be reflective of our core ongoing business. However, while we consider Adjusted EBITDA to be an important measure of operating performance, Adjusted EBITDA and other non-GAAP financial measures have limitations, and investors should not consider them in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Further, Adjusted EBITDA, as we define it, may not be comparable to EBITDA, or similarly titled measures, as defined by other companies. The following table presents Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure, and provides a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to the directly comparable GAAP measure reported in the Companys consolidated financial statements: Three Months Ended Year Ended December 31, December 31, 2015 2014 2015 2014 Net loss $ (333,000 ) $ (1,386,000 ) $ (2,632,000 ) $ (7,288,000 ) Income tax benefit (2,393,000 ) - (2,393,000 ) - Stock-based compensation expense 2,300,000 394,000 2,954,000 1,492,000 Depreciation and amortization 386,000 213,000 820,000 616,000 Acquisition related costs 173,000 - 268,000 - Interest expense 188,000 - 189,000 892,000 Interest and other income - (1,000 ) (1,000 ) (3,000 ) Gain on settlement of accounts payable - - - (9,000 ) Change in fair value of derivative liability - - - 681,000 Adjusted EBITDA $ 321,000 $ (780,000 ) $ (795,000 ) $ (3,619,000 ) For the first time in the Companys operating history, we experienced positive Adjusted EBITDA for the three months ended December 31, 2015. This was primarily the result of the We Sell Cellular acquisition, but was also positively impacted by efficiency gains within our legacy retail business. These efficiency gains were a direct result of our strategic decision to reduce marketing staff and marketing spend in favor of the wholesale acquisition of devices. Liquidity and Capital Resources We do not yet have a sustained history of financial stability. Historically, our principal source of liquidity has been the issuances of debt and equity securities (including to related parties), including preferred stock, common stock and various debt financing transactions. We believe that, with our recent acquisition of We Sell Cellular, the closing of the final $2 million under our financing facility, and our current available cash along with the anticipated increase in revenues, we will have sufficient funds to meet our anticipated cash needs for the next 12 months. There can be no assurance that the plans and actions proposed by management will be successful, that we will generate profitability and positive cash flows in the future. We cannot assure you that financing will enable us to meet our working capital needs. Future efforts to raise additional funds may not be successful or they may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our cash flow has been significantly impacted by the We Sell Cellular acquisition. In connection with the acquisition, we entered into an $8 million financing facility, of which we have borrowed $6 million as of December 31, 2015 and $2 million on or shortly after the filing of this Report. The proceeds were used, in part, to fund the acquisition of We Sell Cellular, in order for them to repay a previously existing bank loan, repay an amount due to one of the founders of We Sell Cellular and for the purchase of inventory. The remaining proceeds have been primarily used for the purchase of inventory and working capital needs. The Company is required to begin repaying the principal of this loan in 1/48 th increments beginning May 23, 2016. Upon the closing of the amendment to our existing loan facility, the initial amortization payments will be postponed until September 1, 2017 and be amortized until the maturity date of October 23, 2018. Cash Flows from Operating Activities We used $3,343,000 of cash in operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to $3,485,000 during the year ended December 31, 2014. Our net loss during the year ended December 31, 2015 of $2,632,000 was primarily affected by an income tax benefit of $2,393,000, offset by $2,954,000 of stock-based compensation and $820,000 of depreciation and amortization. Changes in working capital used $2,148,000 of cash during the year ended December 31, 2015. Our net loss during the year ended December 31, 2014 of $7,288,000 was mainly offset by $1,492,000 of stock-based compensation, $874,000 from the amortization of remaining debt discount on our Convertible Notes, $681,000 from the change in the market value of the derivative liability pertaining to our Convertible Notes and $616,000 of depreciation and amortization. Changes in working capital provided $121,000 of cash during the year ended December 31, 2014. Cash Flows from Investing Activities During the year ended December 31, 2015, we paid $2,366,000 in connection with our acquisition of We Sell Cellular on October 26, 2015, we capitalized $601,000 of website development costs and purchased $17,000 of property and equipment. Our restricted cash account changed by $801,000 as a result of our requirement under the NPA to maintain a dedicated bank account controlled by BAM. 11 During the year ended December 31, 2014, we capitalized $657,000 of website development costs. Cash Flows from Financing Activities During the year ended December 31, 2015, we received $6,000,000 in proceeds under our NPA and paid $239,000 in costs associated with the NPA. During the year ended December 31, 2014, our financing activities generated $4,650,000 in proceeds from the August 2014 public offering and $1,775,000 in proceeds from the private placement offering of our common stock. In addition, we received proceeds of $300,000 from the sale of our Convertible Series A Preferred Stock and $388,000 from the exercise of warrants. Proceeds from our financing activities were offset by $1,042,000 of offering costs paid. Related Party Transactions None. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements This report includes forward-looking statements including statements regarding liquidity, anticipated revenues, capital expenditures, expectations from proposed capital raises, and anticipated results from increasing buyers on our site. The words believe, may, estimate, continue, anticipate, intend, should, plan, could, target, potential, is likely, will, expect and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. We have based these forward-looking statements largely on our current expectations and projections about future events and financial trends that we believe may affect our financial condition, results of operations, business strategy and financial needs. The results anticipated by any or all of these forward-looking statements might not occur. Important factors, uncertainties and risks that may cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are contained in the Risk Factors that follow. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as the result of new information, future events or otherwise. For more information regarding some of the ongoing risks and uncertainties of our business, see the Risk Factors and our other filings with the SEC. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following Risk Factors before deciding whether to purchase or sell securities of uSell. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations or our financial condition. If any of the events discussed in the Risk Factors below occur, our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, the value and marketability of the common stock could decline. Risks Relating to Our Business uSell and We Sell Cellular may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the We Sell Cellular acquisition. To realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, the combined company must successfully integrate the businesses of uSell and We Sell Cellular. This integration will be complex and time-consuming. Potential difficulties uSell and We Sell Cellular may encounter include, among others: unanticipated issues in integrating logistics, information, communications and other systems; integrating personnel from the two companies while maintaining focus on providing a consistent, high quality level of service; integrating complex systems, technology, networks and other assets of We Sell Cellular in a seamless manner that minimizes any adverse impact on suppliers, employees and buyers; performance shortfalls at one or both of the companies as a result of the diversion of management's attention from day-to-day operations caused by activities surrounding the completion of the acquisition and integration of the companies operations; 12 potential unknown liabilities, liabilities that are significantly larger than anticipated, unforeseen expenses or delays associated with the acquisition and the integration process; unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations; the impact on usells internal controls and compliance with the regulatory requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, including, but not limited to, complexities that arise as a result of integrating the accounting system and internal controls of a private company with that of a public company; and complexities associated with managing the larger, combined business. Some of these factors are outside the control of either company. uSell has not completed a merger or acquisition comparable in size or scope to this acquisition. The failure of the combined company to successfully integrate the operations of uSell and We Sell Cellular or otherwise to realize any of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, the activities of the combined company and could adversely affect its results of operations. The integration process maybe more difficult, costly or time-consuming than anticipated, which could cause uSells stock price to decline. If we are unable to raise sufficient capital, we will not be able to purchase additional inventory to grow our business and our results of operations will be adversely affected. In order to continue growing operations, we will need to purchase a larger number of phones to sell to buyers which will require us to raise capital. Because of the difficulty that microcap companies have in raising capital, the lack of available credit for companies like us, and our stock price, we may be hampered in our ability to raise the necessary working capital. Even if we do find a source of additional capital, we may not be able to negotiate terms and conditions for receiving the additional capital that are acceptable to us. Any future capital investments may dilute or otherwise materially and adversely affect the holdings or rights of our existing shareholders. In addition, new equity or debt securities issued by us to obtain financing could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock. Additionally, as partial consideration for the acquisition of We Sell Cellular, the Company entered into Employment Agreements with the then principals of We Sell Cellular, Messrs. Brian and Scott Tepfer. The Employment Agreements contain non-compete provisions which prohibit the Tepfers from competing against the Company; however, these provisions terminate if uSell fails to sell a total of $6 million of stock owned by the Tepfers by not later than August 2017. In such event, either of the Tepfers may compete with uSell and take their existing supplier relationships away from uSell and the We Sell Cellular business, revenues and profitability would be adversely affected. If we fail to meet the covenants under our loan agreement, we may sustain material adverse consequences including the possibility of the Purchaser declaring a default. As is customary with institutional loan agreements, our loan agreement requires us to meet future a number of financial covenants. If we fail to comply with any of these covenants, we may sustain a number of material adverse consequences including: we may incur penalties which may be material; and the Purchaser may declare a default which may cause us to cease operations or seek relief from a bankruptcy court. If any of these events were to occur, your investment may be lost. As described earlier, the Company has entered into an agreement with BAM to permit it to borrow the remaining $2 million and make changes favorable to us including postponing an EBITDA covenant until September 30, 2017. See Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. If we pay too much or do not offer a sufficient amount to our suppliers for phones, our revenues will be adversely affected. Recently, we acquired We Sell Cellular which primarily engages in the wholesale acquisition and resale of smartphones and related devices from carriers and big box stores. The We Sell Cellular business is reliant on its ability to purchase phones at low prices which result in profitability on liquidation. Conversely, if the prices that We Sell Cellular offers suppliers for the phones are too low, than we will be unsuccessful at obtaining the phones and our revenues will be adversely affected. Although we believe that the combination of uSells technology platform and access to capital and We Sell Cellulars brand and relationships with suppliers in the wholesale industry will provide investors with significant value, we cannot assure you that the acquisition of We Sell Cellular will result in profitability for uSell. 13 Because we acquired 94% of our phones in 2015 from one supplier, if that supplier reduces its sales to us, it may adversely affect our results of operations. We Sell Cellulars business has been characterized by a high degree of supplier concentration. In 2015, We Sell Cellular purchased 94% of its inventory from one supplier. Unless we were to find new large suppliers, the relationship with this supplier is vital to the continued success of We Sell Cellular. We Sell Cellular continues to purchase phones from this supplier, however, as in any private company acquisition, the policies and internal controls of the public company may not integrate well with the relationships that the private company had prior to becoming a part of an SEC reporting company. Although this supplier continues to sell We Sell Cellular phones in large quantities, we cannot assure you that the supplier will continue to provide us with phones at a cost effective rate for any reason. In the event that our relationship with the supplier was terminated or the number of phones supplied to We Sell Cellular from this supplier were reduced, our revenues and profitability would be adversely affected. If we cannot manage our growth effectively, we may not become profitable. Businesses which grow rapidly often have difficulty managing their growth. If we continue to grow as rapidly as we anticipate, we will need to expand our management by recruiting and employing experienced executives and key employees capable of providing the necessary support. We cannot assure you that our management will be able to manage our growth effectively or successfully. Our failure to meet these challenges could cause us to lose money, and your investment could be lost. If we fail to retain our key personnel, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth and our business could suffer. Our future depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel and the continued contributions of our executive officers including Nikhil Raman, uSells Chief Executive Officer, Brian Tepfer, We Sell Cellulars Chief Executive Officer and Scott Tepfer, We Sell Cellulars President, each of whom may be difficult to replace. The loss of the services of any of these officers and the process to replace any key personnel would involve significant time and expense and may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. Because we rely on the continuing rapid pace of technological development in the smartphone and tablet industries, if innovation in these industries were to decrease or providers were to extend the upgrade cycles on phones, our future results of operation will be adversely affected. We believe that one of the driving factors for the potential success of our business is the continued improvements and developments in the smartphone industry as well as the continued reduction in the amount of time consumers have to wait to upgrade their phones with no penalties. Because consumers have in the past expressed a continual need to have the latest generation phones and iPads or other tablets, the opportunity for liquidating these huge quantities of depreciating assets in a profitable yet efficient manner is very promising. If innovation in smartphone or tablet device technology were to level off, the upgrade cycles were to be extended or there were fewer new phone launches, the purchase of new phones and tablets could be diminished, reducing the demand for used electronics and consequently the wholesale market for them. In such an event, our results of operations would suffer and we may not be able to continue operations. Because we rely on information technology to operate our businesses and maintain our competitiveness, any failure to adapt to technological developments or industry trends could harm our business. We depend upon the use of sophisticated information technology, including software. As our operations grow in both size and scope, we must continuously improve and upgrade our systems including our hardware and infrastructure to offer our enhanced products, services, features and functionality, while maintaining the reliability and integrity of our systems and infrastructure. Our future success also depends on our ability to adapt our services and infrastructure to meet rapidly evolving industry standards while continuing to improve the performance, features and reliability of our service in response to competitive service and product offerings and the changing demands of the marketplace. In particular, expanding our systems and infrastructure to meet any potential increases in business volume will require us to commit additional financial, operational and technical resources before those increases materialize, with no assurance that they actually will. Furthermore, our use of this technology could be challenged by claims that we have infringed upon the patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights of others. In addition, we may not be able to maintain our existing systems, obtain new technologies and systems, or replace or introduce new technologies and systems as quickly as our competitors or in a cost-effective manner. Also, we may fail to achieve the benefits anticipated or required from any new technology or system, or we may be unable to devote financial resources to new technologies and systems in the future. If we experience system interruptions, it may cause us to lose customers and may harm our business. Our inability to maintain and improve our information technology systems and infrastructure may result in system interruptions. System interruptions and slow delivery times, unreliable service levels, prolonged or frequent service outages, or insufficient capacity may prevent us from efficiently providing services to the buyers and/or customers on our website, which could result in our losing customers and revenue 14 We lease space for our data center and rely on a co-location partner for power, security, connectivity and other services. We also rely on third party providers for bandwidth and content delivery. We do not control these vendors and it would take significant time and effort to replace them. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, website disruptions, outages and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors and capacity constraints. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from terrorist attacks, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, hurricanes, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks or other attempts to harm our systems. If the site is unavailable when customers attempt to access it or access is slower than a customer expects, customers may stop visiting our site and become less likely to return, if at all. We expect to continue to make significant investments in our technology infrastructure to maintain and improve all aspects of user experience and site performance. To the extent that our disaster recovery systems are not adequate, or we do not effectively address capacity constraints, upgrade our systems, and continually develop our technology and network architecture to accommodate increasing traffic, our business and operating results may suffer. Our software is highly technical and undetected errors, if any, could adversely affect our business. Our service incorporates software that is highly technical and complex. Our software has contained, and may now or in the future contain, undetected errors, bugs, flaws, corrupted data or vulnerabilities. Some errors in our software code may only be discovered after the code has been released. Any errors, bugs, flaws or corrupted data could result in damage to our reputation, loss of users, or loss of revenue, any of which could adversely affect our business and financial results. Because our networks and IT systems may be vulnerable to unauthorized persons hacking our systems, it could disrupt our operations and result in the theft of our proprietary information. A party who is able to breach the security measures on our networks could misappropriate either our proprietary information or the personal information provided by participants on our website, or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. Hacking of websites is a growing problem. If we grow and obtain more visibility, we may be more vulnerable to hacking. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against such threats or to alleviate problems caused by breaches in security, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and operating results. Our business is subject to a variety of U.S. and other laws, rules and regulations that could subject us to claims or otherwise harm our business. Government regulation of the Internet and e-commerce is evolving and unfavorable changes could substantially harm our business and results of operations. We are subject to a variety of laws in the U.S. and elsewhere that affect advertising, that are costly with which to comply, can result in negative publicity and diversion of management time and effort, and can subject us to claims or other remedies. In addition, the laws relating to the liability of providers of online services are currently unsettled both within the U.S. and elsewhere. Claims can be brought under both U.S. and foreign law for defamation and other tort claims, unlawful activity, copyright, and trademark infringement. The Digital Millennium Copyright Act has provisions that limit, but do not necessarily eliminate, our liability for listing or linking to third-party websites that include materials that infringe copyrights or other rights, so long as we comply with the statutory requirements of this act. The Child Online Protection Act and the Childrens Online Privacy Protection Act restrict the distribution of materials considered harmful to children and impose additional restrictions on the ability of online services to collect information from minors. In the area of data protection, the European Union and many states have passed laws requiring notification to users when there is a security breach for personal data, such as Californias Information Practices Act. We must comply with the Federal Trade Commissions unfair trade practices rules and state consumer protection laws including little unfair trade practice rules. Any failure on our part to comply with these laws, rules and regulations may subject us to additional liabilities. As Internet commerce develops, federal, state and foreign governments may draft and propose new laws to regulate Internet commerce, which may negatively affect our business. As Internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign governments becomes more likely. Our business could be negatively impacted by the application of existing laws and regulations or the enactment of new laws applicable to our business. The cost to comply with such laws or regulations could be significant and would increase our operating expenses. 15 If there is new tax treatment of companies engaged in Internet commerce, it could adversely affect the commercial use of our services and our financial results. Due to the global nature of the Internet, it is possible that governments might attempt to tax our activities. New or revised tax regulations may subject us to additional sales, income and other taxes. New York State, for example, taxes online sales. Recently there has been movement toward Congress permitting states and localities to impose sale taxes on online purchases. Recently, the United States Senate passed legislation to permit taxation of Internet sales but it stalled in the House of Representatives. We cannot predict the effect of current attempts to impose sales, income or other taxes on commerce over the Internet. New or revised taxes and especially sales taxes would likely increase the cost of doing business online, and increase the cost of doing business over the Internet. Any of these events will increase our costs and adversely affect our business and results of operations. If a third party asserts that we are infringing on its intellectual property, whether successful or not, it could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation or require us to obtain expensive licenses, and our business may be adversely affected. The Internet industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks and copyrights and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. A party may assert patent and other intellectual property infringement litigation against us claiming our platform infringes on its patents or otherwise violates its intellectual property rights. Any lawsuit, whether or not successful, could: Divert managements attention; Result in prohibitive costs; Require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. As a result, any third-party intellectual property claims against us could increase our expenses and adversely affect our business. In addition, agreements with third parties require us to indemnify them for intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase the cost to us resulting from an adverse ruling on any such claim. Even if we have not infringed any intellectual property rights, we cannot be sure our legal defenses will be successful, and even if we are successful in defending against such claims, our legal defense could require significant financial resources and management time. Finally, if a claimant successfully asserts a claim that our services infringe their proprietary rights, royalty or licensing agreements might not be available on terms we find acceptable, or at all. If we cannot protect our intellectual property rights, we may be unable to compete with competitors developing similar technologies. We regard the protection of our trade secrets and other intellectual property rights as critical to our success. A substantial amount of our processes and technologies is protected by trade secret laws. In order to protect these technologies and processes, we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, licensees, independent contractors and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information, including trade secrets, and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such parties. To the extent that our employees, contractors or other third parties with which we do business use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. Laws regarding trade secret rights in certain markets in which we currently, or in the future, operate may afford little or no protection to our trade secrets. The loss of trade secret protection could make it easier for third parties to compete with our platform by copying functionality. In addition, any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the trade secret and other intellectual property laws may compromise our ability to enforce our trade secret and intellectual property rights. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our business, revenue, reputation and competitive position. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Because the market for our common stock is limited, persons who purchase our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above the purchase price paid for them. Our common stock trades on the OTBQB, which is not liquid. There is currently only a limited public market for our common stock. We cannot assure you that an active public market for our common stock will develop or be sustained in the future. If an active market for our common stock does not develop there may be a substantial decrease in the price of our common stock. Because we are subject to the penny stock rules, brokers cannot generally solicit the purchase of our common stock, which adversely affects its liquidity and market price. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define penny stock to be an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to specific exemptions, including listing on a national securities exchange like NASDAQ. The market price of our common stock on the OTC Markets is less than $5.00 per share and therefore we are currently considered a penny stock according to SEC rules. This designation requires any broker-dealer selling these securities to disclose certain information concerning the transaction, obtain a written agreement from the purchaser and determine that the purchaser is reasonably suitable to purchase the securities. We will remain subject to the penny stock rules unless our stock price is above $5.00. 16 Due to factors beyond our control, our stock price may be volatile. Any of the following factors could affect the market price of our common stock: Our failure to integrate We Sell Cellular efficiently; Our failure to increase revenue in each succeeding quarter; Our failure to achieve and maintain profitability; Our failure to meet our revenue and earnings guidance or our failure to meet financial analysts performance expectations; The loss of a number of suppliers (see risk factor on page 14) or our failure to attract more suppliers; The loss of a number of buyers or our failure to attract more buyers; The sale of a large amount of common stock by our shareholders; Our announcement of a pending or completed acquisition or our failure to complete a proposed acquisition; An adverse court ruling or regulatory action; Changes in market valuations of similar companies; Short selling activities; Our announcement of any financing which is dilutive to our shareholders; Our announcement of a change in the direction of our business; or Announcements by us, or our competitors, of significant contracts, acquisitions, commercial relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a companys securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs and divert our managements time and attention, which would otherwise be used to benefit our business. Because we may not be able to attract the attention of major brokerage firms, it could have a material impact upon the price of our common stock. It is not likely that securities analysts of major brokerage firms will provide research coverage for our common stock since the firm itself cannot recommend the purchase of our common stock under the penny stock rules referenced in an earlier risk factor. The absence of such coverage limits the likelihood that an active market will develop for our common stock. It may also make it more difficult for us to attract new investors at times when we acquire additional capital. If we become subject to a regulatory investigation, it could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner materially adverse to our business. From time to time, we may receive inquiries from regulators regarding our compliance with laws and other matters. Responding to or defending other such actions would cause us to incur substantial expenses and divert our managements attention. If we are unsuccessful, we may have to change our policies or practices. Any such change or defense of a regulatory investigation or action could reduce our future revenues and increase our costs and adversely affect our future operating results. Violation of existing or future regulatory orders or consent decrees could subject us to substantial monetary fines and other penalties that could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, it is possible that future orders issued by, or enforcement actions initiated by, regulatory authorities could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner materially adverse to our business. Because our executive officers and directors beneficially own a significant amount of our common stock, it is likely that they will continue to be able to exert significant control over matters which require shareholder approval including election of directors and the future sale of our business. As of March 30, 2016, our executive officers and directors beneficially owned approximately 55% of our outstanding voting stock. Therefore, these shareholders will have the ability to influence us through this ownership position. These shareholders may be able to determine all matters requiring shareholder approval and, acting together, may be able to control elections of directors, amendments of our organizational documents, or approval of any merger, sale of assets, or other major corporate transaction. This may prevent or discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or offers for our common stock you may believe are in your best interest as one of our shareholders. We do not expect to pay dividends in the future, which means that investors may not be able to realize the value of their shares except through a sale. We have never, and do not anticipate that we will, declare or pay a cash dividend. We expect to retain future earnings, if any, for our business and do not anticipate paying dividends on common stock at any time in the foreseeable future. Because we do not anticipate paying dividends in the future, the only opportunity for our shareholders to realize the creation of value in our common stock will likely be through a sale of those shares. 17