Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those identified below and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors and other parts of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future. Overview Upstart applies modern data science and technology to the process of underwriting consumer credit. By providing our bank partners with a proprietary AI-based origination platform, we help them originate credit with higher approval rates, lower loss rates and a high degree of automation. As our technology continues to improve and additional banks adopt our platform, consumers benefit from improved access to affordable and frictionless credit. We believe that banks and other traditional lenders will continue to be at the forefront of consumer lending in the United States. We believe AI lending will become increasingly critical as this industry continues to undergo a broad digital transformation. Our strategy is to partner with banks, providing them with an exceptional AI lending platform that they can configure as they originate consumer loans under their own brand, according to their own business and regulatory requirements. Consumers can obtain Upstart-powered loans in one of two ways: either by referral from Upstart.com to one of our bank partners, or directly through our bank partners own websites, where our lending technology and experience is bank-branded. Our direct bank partner channel represents a small but growing portion of our overall volume, and we believe this portion will continue to grow over time as we onboard new bank partners. Our bank partners can retain loans that align with their business and risk objectives. For loans that are not retained by our bank partners, we help diversify the funding of these loans to a broad base of institutional investors that invest in Upstart-powered loans. Over the last few years, the percentage of loans funded through our balance sheet has generally decreased, while the percentage of loans purchased by institutional investors has generally increased. However, in the first quarter of 2022 we saw an increase in the percentage of loans retained by Upstart. These loans were primarily originated for research and development purposes to support both our auto lending platform and expand our personal unsecured loan offering to borrowers of different risk tiers. Upstart has also at times utilized its balance sheet to support short-term funding requirements of loans that would otherwise be held by institutional investors. Our Economic Model Upstarts revenues are primarily earned in the form of two separate usage-based fees, which can be either dollar or percentage based depending on the contractual arrangement. We charge our bank partners a referral fee each time we refer a borrower who obtains a loan. Separately, we charge bank partners a platform fee each time they originate a loan using our platform. These fees are contracted for and charged separately, although they are combined for accounting purposes as they represent a single performance obligation. We do not charge the borrowers on our platform any referral, platform or other similar fees for our loan matching services. We also charge the holder of the loan (either a bank or institutional investor) an ongoing annualized servicing fee based on the outstanding principal over the lifetime of the loan for ongoing servicing of the loan. In addition, we earn a small portion of our revenue from interest income and gains generated through our securitization programs. 42 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Loans on our platform today are predominantly sourced from Upstart.com. For these loans, we incur variable costs in the form of borrower acquisition costs and borrower verification and servicing costs. Borrower acquisition costs and borrower verification and servicing costs are highly correlated with the Transaction Volume, Number of Loans on our platform have trended upwards on a period-by-period basis. The continued improvements to our level of automation and Conversion Rate achieved through our increasingly sophisticated risk models and our evolving channel mix contribute to improving loan unit economics over time. COVID-19 Pandemic Impact Starting in the second half of March 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic impacted origination volumes on our platform. The rapid rise in unemployment in the United States led to a reduction in originations by bank partners and a temporary pause in loan funding from institutional investors and capital markets. During the peak of the COVID-19 pandemic, we made certain operational changes, including temporary reductions in our marketing activities and certain operational expenses. In order to support borrowers suffering from income loss due to the pandemic, Upstart also worked with its bank partners to offer hardship plans that, among other things, allowed affected borrowers to defer loan payments for up to two months. At the peak, 5.6% of borrowers on our platform had enrolled in a hardship program, less than half the rate of online lending industry benchmarks, and 95% of those impacted borrowers eventually exited the hardship program and resumed making loan payments. Origination volumes on our platform normalized by year-end 2020, with bank partners increasing originations and institutional investors and capital markets resuming loan funding. The level of government assistance that was made available to consumers starting in the second quarter of 2020 was unprecedented, driving significant reduction in loan default rates and resulting in strong credit performance of Upstart-powered loans from the second quarter of 2020 through the third quarter of 2021. Since then, most government assistance programs have expired and the default rates of borrowers on our platform have returned to pre-pandemic levels. Factors Affecting Our Performance Continued Improvements to Our AI Models Much of our historical growth has been driven by improvements to our AI models. These models benefit over time from a flywheel effect that is characteristic of machine learning systems: accumulation of repayment data leads to improved accuracy of risk and fraud predictions, which results in higher approval rates and lower interest rates, leading to increased volume, and consequently greater accumulation of repayment data. This virtuous cycle describes an important mechanism by which our business grows simply through model learning and recalibration. We expect to continue to invest significantly in the development of our AI models and platform functionalities. Beyond the ongoing accumulation of repayment data used to train our models, we also frequently make discrete improvements to model accuracy by upgrading algorithms and incorporating new variables, both of which have historically resulted in higher approval rates, more competitive loan offers, increased automation, and faster growth. As a second order effect, the impact of these improvements on our conversion funnel also allows us to unlock new marketing channels over time that have previously been unprofitable. We believe that ongoing improvements to our technology in this manner will allow us to further expand access and lower rates for creditworthy borrowers, which will continue to fuel our growth. Should the pace of these improvements slow down or cease, or should we discover forms of model upgrades which improve accuracy at the expense of volume, our growth rates could be adversely affected. Bank and Market Adoption 43 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Banks play two key roles in Upstarts ecosystem: funding loans and acquiring new customers. Traditional lenders, such as banks, tend to enjoy among the most efficient sources of funding due to their expansive base of deposits. As they adopt our technology and fund a growing proportion of our platform transactions, offers made to borrowers will typically improve, generally leading to higher conversion rates and faster growth for our platform. New bank partners also represent additional acquisition channels through which we can reach and source prospective new borrowers, as these banks develop and implement their own digital and in-branch campaigns to drive traffic from their existing customer base to our platform. We view this emerging growth channel to be additive to the marketing acquisition programs we currently run at Upstart. To provide funding support for our bank partners, we have built a broad network of institutional investors that can fund Upstart-powered loans through secondary loan purchasing and issuance of pass-through certificates and asset-backed securitizations. This diverse network of capital helps to minimize our reliance on any one funding source. However, any trend towards reduced participation by banks will generally erode the overall competitiveness of the offers on our platform, and any declining trend in the participation of broader institutional investment markets with respect to funding availability for Upstart-powered loans could adversely affect our business. Product Expansion and Innovation We intend to continue developing new financial products that address a broader set of consumer needs over time. In the third quarter of 2020, we announced our entry into the auto lending market and in April 2021, we acquired Prodigy Software, Inc. or Prodigy, a leader in automotive commerce software solutions. Prodigy provides a modern multi-channel car buying experience, helping dealerships serve consumers with a holistic software solution that integrates legacy systems. In addition to modernizing the car buying experience, Prodigy is helping bring Upstart's AI enabled auto loans to dealerships across the country where the vast majority of auto loans are transacted. In October 2021, we announced the launch of Upstart Auto Retail software, a cloud-based solution that enables dealerships to provide consumers with access to Upstart-powered auto loans by combining Prodigy Software and Upstart intellectual property. We believe that significant growth opportunities exist to apply our evolving technology to additional segments of credit, such as small business loans, small dollar loans, mortgage loans, and beyond. In addition, we aim to serve a broader role of technology enablement for banks, which we believe will seek more comprehensive technology solutions from their suppliers. We will incur expenses and opportunity cost to develop and launch new products. Monetization prospects for new products are uncertain, and costs associated with integrating, developing and marketing new products might not be recovered, which could weigh on our top-line growth and profitability. Impact of Macroeconomic Cycles Economic cycles can impact our financial performance and related metrics, including increasing the rate of returns our bank partners and institutional investors are willing to accept, which in turn would generally increase interest rates offered to borrowers causing lower borrower demand. In a potential downturn, we believe consumer lending will generally contract, including the volume transacted on our own platform. However, the performance of Upstart-powered loans through an economic downturn will be important in further validating our AI models with banks and institutional investors. If we are able to continue demonstrating the resilience of Upstart-powered loans through future macroeconomic cycles relative to general consumer credit, it could strengthen our competitive positioning as we emerge from such downturns. 44 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Key Operating and Non-GAAP Financial Metrics We focus on several key operating and Non-GAAP financial metrics to measure the performance of our business and help determine strategic direction. The following presents our key operating and financial metrics: Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2022 Transaction Volume, Dollars $ 1,729 $ 4,535 Transaction Volume, Number of Loans 169,750 465,537 Conversion Rate 22.0% 21.4% Percentage of Loans Fully Automated 71% 74% Contribution Profit (1) $ 55,786 $ 147,841 Contribution Margin (1) 48% 47% Adjusted EBITDA (1) $ 20,999 $ 62,590 Adjusted EBITDA Margin (1) 17% 20% Adjusted Net Income (1) $ 19,944 $ 58,621 Adjusted Net Income per Share: Basic (1) $ 0.27 $ 0.70 Diluted (1) $ 0.22 $ 0.61 _______ (1) Represents a non-GAAP financial measure. See the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsReconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures for further information. Transaction Volume We define Transaction Volume, Dollars as the total principal of loans transacted on our platform between a borrower and the originating bank during the period presented. We define Transaction Volume, Number of Loans as the number of loans facilitated on our platform between a borrower and the originating bank during the period presented. We believe these metrics are good proxies for our overall scale and reach as a platform. Conversion Rate We define Conversion Rate as the Transaction Volume, Number of Loans in a period divided by the number of rate inquiries received that we estimate to be legitimate, which we record when a borrower requests a loan offer on our platform. We track this metric to understand the impact of improvements to the efficiency of our borrower funnel on our overall growth. Historically, our Conversion Rate has benefited from improvements to our technology, which have made our evaluation of risk more accurate and our verification process more automated, or from the addition of bank partners that have made our offers more competitive. Our ability to continue to improve our Conversion Rate depends in part on our ability to continue to improve our AI models and Percentage of Loans Fully Automated and the mix of marketing channels in any given period. Percentage of Loans Fully Automated A driver of our Contribution Margin and operating efficiency is the Percentage of Loans Fully Automated, which is defined as the total number of loans in a given period originated end-to-end (from initial rate request to final funding) with no human involvement divided by the Transaction Volume, Number of Loans in the same period. We have been successful in increasing the level of loan automation on the platform over the past few years while simultaneously holding fraud rates constant and at very low levels. We believe our growth over the last several years has been driven in part by our ability to rapidly streamline and automate the loan application and origination process on our platform. We expect the Percentage of Loans Fully Automated to level off and remain relatively stable in the long term. However, the expansion of our loan offerings beyond unsecured personal loans, 45 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) including auto loans, may cause fluctuations of such percentage from quarter to quarter depending on the loan offering mix. Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin To derive Contribution Profit, we subtract from revenue from fees, net from our borrower acquisition costs as well as our borrower verification and servicing costs. To calculate Contribution Margin we divide Contribution Profit by revenue from fees, net. The following table provides a calculation of Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin: Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2022 Revenue from fees, net 116,170 313,982 Borrower acquisition costs (1) (46,122) (123,814) Borrower verification and servicing costs (2) (14,262) (42,327) Total direct expenses (60,384) (166,141) Contribution Profit $ 55,786 $ 147,841 Contribution Margin 48 % 47 % _______ (1) Borrower acquisition costs consist of our sales and marketing expenses adjusted to exclude costs not directly attributable to attracting a new borrower, such as payroll-related expenses for our business development and marketing teams, as well as other operational, brand awareness and marketing activities. (2) Borrower verification and servicing costs consist of payroll and other personnel-related expenses for personnel engaged in loan onboarding, verification and servicing, as well as servicing system costs. It excludes payroll and personnel-related expenses and stock-based compensation for certain members of our customer operations team whose work is not directly attributable to onboarding and servicing loans. See the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsReconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures for a reconciliation of income from operations to Contribution Profit. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin We calculate Adjusted EBITDA as net income adjusted to exclude stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expenses, depreciation and amortization, expense on convertible notes, provision for income taxes and acquisition-related costs. We calculate Adjusted EBITDA Margin as Adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin includes interest expense from corporate debt and warehouse credit facilities which is incurred in the course of earning corresponding interest income. See the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsReconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures for a reconciliation of net income to Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin. Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Net Income Per Share We define Adjusted Net Income as net income exclusive of stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expenses and acquisition-related costs. Adjusted Net Income Per Share is calculated by dividing Adjusted Net Income Per Share by the weighted-average common shares outstanding. See the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsReconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures for a reconciliation of net income to Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Net Income per Share. 46 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Components of Results of Operations Revenue from Fees, Net Platform and Referral Fees, Net We charge our bank partners platform fees in exchange for usage of our AI lending platform, which includes collection of loan application data, underwriting of credit risk, verification and fraud detection, and the delivery of electronic loan offers and associated documentation. We also charge referral fees to our bank partners in exchange for the referral of borrowers from Upstart.com. Referral fees are charged to bank partners on a per borrower basis upon origination of a loan. These fees are charged net of any fees the bank partner charges Upstart. Upstart pays these bank partners a one-time loan premium fee upon completion of the minimum holding periods. Upstart also pays bank partners monthly loan trailing fees based on the amount and timing of principal and interest payments made by borrowers of the underlying loans. See Note 2. Revenue to our condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information about loan premium fees and trailing fees. Servicing and Other Fees, Net Servicing fees are calculated as a percentage of outstanding principal and are charged monthly to any entities holding loans facilitated through our platform, to compensate us for activities we perform throughout the loan term, including collection, processing and reconciliations of payments received, investor reporting and borrower customer support. Servicing fees are recorded net of any gains, losses or changes to fair value recognized in the underlying servicing rights and obligations, which are carried as assets and liabilities on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. Upstart currently acts as loan-servicer for substantially all outstanding loans facilitated through the Upstart platform. Borrower payment collections for loans that are more than 30 days past due or charged off are generally outsourced to third-party collection agencies. Upstart charges bank partners and institutional investors for collection agency fees related to their outstanding loan portfolio. Upstart also receives certain ancillary fees on a per transaction basis inclusive of late payment fees and ACH fail fees. Interest Income and Fair Value Adjustments, Net Interest income and fair value adjustments, net is comprised of interest income, interest expense and net changes in the fair value of financial instruments held on our condensed consolidated balance sheets as part of our ongoing operating activities, excluding loan servicing assets and liabilities. Interest income and fair value adjustments, net also includes income from our capital market programs and realized gain on the sale of loans. Interest income and fair value adjustments, net can fluctuate based on the fair value of financial instruments held on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. This amount has historically been a small percentage of our total revenue, and we do not manage our business with a focus on growing this component of revenue. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of costs incurred across various advertising channels, including expenses for partnerships with third parties providing borrower referrals, direct mail and digital advertising campaigns, as well as other expenses associated with building overall brand awareness and experiential marketing costs. Sales and marketing expenses also include payroll and other personnel-related costs, including stock-based compensation expense. These costs are recognized in the period incurred. We expect that our sales and marketing expenses will increase in absolute dollars and may fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue from period to period as we hire additional sales and marketing personnel, increase our marketing activities and build greater brand awareness. Customer Operations 47 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Customer operations expenses include payroll and other personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation expense, for personnel engaged in borrower onboarding, loan servicing, customer support and other operational teams. These costs also include systems, third-party services and tools we use as part of loan servicing, information verification, fraud detection and payment processing activities. These costs are recognized in the period incurred. We expect that our customer operations expenses will increase in absolute dollars and may fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue over time, as we expand our portfolio and increase the Transaction Volume, Number of Loans. Engineering and Product Development Engineering and product development expenses primarily consist of payroll and other personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation expense, for the engineering and product development teams as well as the costs of systems and tools used by these teams. These costs are recognized in the period incurred. We expect that our engineering and product development expenses will increase in absolute dollars and may increase as a percentage of our total revenue over time, as we expand our engineering and product development team to continue to improve our AI models and develop new products and product enhancements. General, Administrative and Other General, administrative and other expenses consist primarily of payroll and other personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation expense, for legal and compliance, finance and accounting, human resources and facilities teams, as well as depreciation and amortization of property, equipment, software, and intangibles, professional services fees, facilities and travel expenses. These costs are recognized in the period incurred. We expect to increase the size of our general and administrative function to support the further growth of our business. As a result, we expect that our general, administrative and other expenses will increase in absolute dollars but may fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue from period to period. Other Expense Other expense primarily consists of a voluntarily repayment during the three months ended March 31, 2021 of funds received under the Paycheck Protection Program. During the three months ended March 31, 2022 other expense primarily consists of interest expense on our convertible notes and charitable donations. Results of Operations The following table summarizes our historical consolidated statements of operations data: 48 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2022 Revenue: Revenue from fees, net $ 116,170 $ 313,982 Interest income and fair value adjustments, net 5,175 (3,846) Total revenue 121,345 310,136 Operating expenses (1) : Sales and marketing 49,376 133,449 Customer operations 17,388 48,407 Engineering and product development 18,988 49,991 General, administrative, and other 20,019 43,456 Total operating expenses 105,771 275,303 Income from operations 15,574 34,833 Other expense (5,251) (2,122) Net income before income taxes 10,323 32,711 Provision for income taxes 221 19 Net income $ 10,102 $ 32,692 ________ (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2022 Sales and marketing $ 753 $ 2,238 Customer operations 752 1,619 Engineering and product development 4,307 13,634 General, administrative, and other 2,810 7,559 Total stock-based compensation $ 8,622 $ 25,050 Revenue Revenue from Fees, Net The following table set forth our revenue from fees, net in the periods shown: Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2021 2022 $ % Platform and referral fees, net $ 106,953 $ 271,812 $ 164,859 154 % Servicing and other fees, net 9,217 42,170 32,953 358 % Total revenue from fees, net $ 116,170 $ 313,982 $ 197,812 170 % Revenue from fees, net increased $197.8 million, or 170%, in the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to the same period in 2021, which included an increase of $164.9 million in revenue from platform and referral fees, net and an increase of $33.0 million in servicing fees, net. The increase of the platform and referral fees, net was primarily driven by a 174% increase in the Transaction Volume, Number of Loans from 169,750 in the three months ended March 31, 2021 to 465,537 in the same period in 2022 as well as an increase in prices of our 49 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) services. The increase in the servicing fees, net was primarily due to an 149% increase in the outstanding principal of serviced loans. Interest Income and Fair Value Adjustments, Net Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2021 2022 $ % Interest income 3,405 15,134 11,729 344 % Interest expense (1,030) (959) 71 7 % Fair value adjustments, net 2,800 (18,021) (20,821) 744 % Total interest income and fair value adjustments, net $ 5,175 $ (3,846) $ (9,021) (174) % Interest income and fair value adjustments, net decreased $9.0 million, or 174% in the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to the same period in 2021. The decrease was primarily driven by a $20.8 million decrease in fair value adjustments, partially offset by a $11.7 million increase in interest income due to an increase in unpaid principal balance of loans held on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. The decrease in fair value adjustments was primarily attributable to a $19.5 million downward valuation of our loan portfolio primarily due to rising market interest rates. Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2021 2022 $ % Sales and marketing $ 49,376 $ 133,449 $ 84,073 170% % of revenue 41 % 43 % Sales and marketing expenses increased by $84.1 million, or 170%, in the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the same period in 2021. The increase was primarily due to a $77.7 million increase in advertising and other traffic acquisition cost, as well as a $5.3 million increase in payroll and other personnel-related expenses driven by increased headcount. As a percentage of total revenue, sales and marketing expenses increased from 41% to 43%. Customer Operations Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2021 2022 $ % Customer operations $ 17,388 $ 48,407 $ 31,019 178% % of revenue 14 % 16 % Customer operations expenses increased by $31.0 million, or 178%, in the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to the same period in 2021. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $19.2 million in payroll and other personnel-related expenses due to an increase in headcount as well as increased spending of $10.5 million on information verification and platform operations due to a growing volume of loans facilitated through our platform. As a percentage of total revenue, customer operations expenses increased from 14% to 16%. Engineering and Product Development 50 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2021 2022 $ % Engineering and product development $ 18,988 $ 49,991 $ 31,003 163% % of revenue 16 % 16 % Engineering and product development expenses increased by $31.0 million, or 163%, For the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to the same period in 2021. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $24.7 million in payroll and other personnel-related expenses driven by an increase in headcount, as well as increased spending of $6.1 million on engineering infrastructure, support services, and consultants. As a percentage of total revenue, engineering and product development expenses remained flat at 16%. General, Administrative, and Other Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2021 2022 $ % General, administrative, and other $ 20,019 $ 43,456 $ 23,437 117 % % of revenue 16 % 14 % General, administrative, and other expenses increased by $23.4 million, or 117%, in the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to the same period in 2021. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $14.4 million in payroll and personnel-related costs as a result of increased headcount; an increase of $3.0 million in office and administrative operation related expenses; and an increase of $2.2 million in professional fees. As a percentage of total revenue, general, administrative, and other expenses decreased from 16% to 14%. Other Expense Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2021 2022 $ % Other expense (5,251) (2,122) 3,129 60 % In the three months ended March 31, 2022, other expense decreased by $3.1 million, or 60%, compared to the same period in 2021. The decrease was primarily due to our voluntary repayment of proceeds received from the PPP loan of $5.3 million during the three months ended March 31, 2021. The decrease was partially offset by $1.2 million of interest expense incurred on convertible notes and a $1.0 million charitable donation during the three months ended March 31, 2022. Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures To supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP, we use the non-GAAP financial measures of Contribution Profit, Contribution Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin, and Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Net Income Per Share to provide investors with additional information about our financial performance and to enhance the overall understanding of our past performance and future prospects. We are presenting these non-GAAP financial measures because we believe they 51 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) provide an additional tool for investors to use in comparing our core financial performance over multiple periods with the performance of other companies. However, non-GAAP financial measures have limitations in their usefulness to investors because they have no standardized meaning prescribed by GAAP and are not prepared under any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. In addition, non-GAAP financial measures may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be directly comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies. As a result, non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed as supplementing, and not as an alternative or substitute for, our condensed consolidated financial statements prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP. To address these limitations, we provide a reconciliation of Contribution Profit, Contribution Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin, and Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Net Income Per Share to income from operations and net income, respectively. We encourage investors and others to review our financial information in its entirety, not to rely on any single financial measure and to view Contribution Profit, Contribution Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin, Adjusted Net Income, and Adjusted Net Income Per Share in conjunction with their respective related GAAP financial measures. Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin We use Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin as part of our overall assessment of performance, including the preparation of our annual operating budget and quarterly forecasts, to evaluate the effectiveness of our business strategies, and to communicate with our Board of Directors concerning our financial performance. We believe Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin are useful to investors for period-to-period comparisons of our business and in evaluating and understanding our operating results and ability to scale. Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin are also useful to investors because our management uses Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin, in conjunction with financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP, to evaluate our operating results and financial performance and the effectiveness of our strategies. Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin have limitations as an analytical tool, and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin are not GAAP financial measures of, nor do they imply, profitability. Even if our revenue exceeds variable expenses over time, we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability, and the relationship of revenue to variable expenses is not necessarily indicative of future performance. Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin do not reflect all of our variable expenses and involve some judgment and discretion around what costs vary directly with loan volume. Other companies that present Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin may calculate it differently and, therefore, similarly titled measures presented by other companies may not be directly comparable to ours. The following table presents a reconciliation of income from operations to Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin. We define Operating Margin as our income from operations divided by revenue from fees, net. 52 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2022 Revenue from fees, net $ 116,170 $ 313,982 Income from operations 15,574 34,833 Operating Margin 13 % 11 % Sales and marketing, net of borrower acquisition costs (1) $ 3,254 $ 9,635 Customer operations, net of borrower verification and servicing costs (2) 3,126 6,080 Engineering and product development 18,988 49,991 General, administrative, and other 20,019 43,456 Interest income and fair value adjustments, net (5,175) 3,846 Contribution Profit $ 55,786 $ 147,841 Contribution Margin 48 % 47 % _________ (1) Borrower acquisition costs were $46.1 million and $123.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2022, respectively. Borrower acquisition costs consist of our sales and marketing expenses adjusted to exclude costs not directly attributable to attracting a new borrower, such as payroll-related expenses for our business development and marketing teams, as well as other operational, brand awareness and marketing activities. (2) Borrower verification and servicing costs were $14.3 million and $42.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2022, respectively. Borrower verification and servicing costs consist of payroll and other personnel-related expenses for personnel engaged in loan onboarding, verification and servicing, as well as servicing system costs. It excludes payroll and personnel-related expenses and stock-based compensation for certain members of our customer operations team whose work is not directly attributable to onboarding and servicing loans. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin We believe that Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin are useful for investors to use in comparing our financial performance with the performance of other companies for the following reasons: Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin are widely used by investors and securities analysts to measure a companys operating performance without regard to items such as depreciation, and interest expense, that can vary substantially from company to company depending upon their financing and capital structures, and the method by which assets were acquired; and Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin eliminate the impact of certain items such as stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense, warrant expense and acquisition-related costs that may obscure trends in the underlying performance of our business; and Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin provide consistency and comparability with our past financial performance, and facilitate comparisons with other companies, many of which use similar non-GAAP financial measures to supplement their GAAP results. Our use of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin has limitations as an analytical tool, and these measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our financial results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are as follows: Although depreciation expense is a non-cash charge, the assets being depreciated may have to be replaced in the future, and Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin does not reflect cash capital expenditure requirements for such replacements or for new capital expenditure requirements; Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin exclude stock-based compensation expense and certain employer payroll taxes on employee stock transactions. Stock-based compensation expense has been, and will continue to be for the foreseeable future, a significant recurring expense for our business and an important part of our compensation strategy. The amount of employer payroll tax-related expense on employee stock transactions is dependent on our stock price and other factors that are beyond our control and which not correlate to the operation of the business; 53 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin do not reflect: (1) changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs; (2) interest expense, or the cash requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments on our debt, which reduces cash available to us; or (3) tax payments that may represent a reduction in cash available to us; and the expenses and other items that we exclude in our calculation of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin may differ from the expenses and other items, if any, that other companies may exclude from Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin when they report their operating results. Because of these limitations, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin should be considered along with other operating and financial performance measures presented in accordance with GAAP. The following table provides a reconciliation of net income and net income margin to Adjusted EBITDA Margin. We define Net Income Margin as net income divided by total revenue. Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2022 Total revenue $ 121,345 $ 310,136 Net income 10,102 32,692 Net Income Margin 8 % 11 % Adjusted to exclude the following: Stock-based compensation and certain payroll tax expenses (1) $ 8,622 $ 25,929 Depreciation and amortization 816 2,781 Expense on convertible notes 18 1,169 Provision for income taxes 221 19 Acquisition-related costs 1,220 Adjusted EBITDA $ 20,999 $ 62,590 Adjusted EBITDA Margin 17 % 20 % _________ (1) Excludes the amount of employer payroll tax-related expense on employee stock transactions, as the amount is dependent on our stock price and other factors that are beyond our control and do not correlate to the operation of our business. Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Net Income Per Share We define Adjusted Net Income as net income exclusive of stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense and acquisition-related costs. Adjusted Net Income Per Share is calculated by dividing Adjusted Net Income Per Share by the weighted-average common shares outstanding. We believe Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Net Income Per Share are useful measures for investors in evaluating our ability to generate earnings, more readily compare between past and future periods, and provide comparability of our performance with the performance of other companies. 54 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2022 Net income $ 10,102 $ 32,692 Adjusted to exclude the following: Stock-based compensation and certain payroll tax expenses (1) 8,622 25,929 Acquisition-related costs 1,220 Adjusted Net Income $ 19,944 $ 58,621 Net income per share: Basic $ 0.14 $ 0.39 Diluted $ 0.11 $ 0.34 Adjusted Net Income per Share: Basic $ 0.27 $ 0.70 Diluted $ 0.22 $ 0.61 Weighted-average common shares outstanding: Basic 73,629,122 84,230,445 Diluted 91,449,571 95,457,776 _________ (1) Excludes the amount of employer payroll tax-related expense on employee stock transactions, as the amount is dependent on our stock price and other factors that are beyond our control and do not correlate to the operation of our business. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Cash Since inception, we have financed our operations, corporate investments, and capital expenditures primarily through the sale of convertible preferred stock, convertible promissory notes, term loans and draws on our revolving credit facilities, and cash generated from operations. In December 2020, we completed our IPO which resulted in $167.4 million of proceeds, net of underwriting discounts and commissions, and before deducting deferred offering costs of $7.9 million. In April 2021, we completed a follow-on offering, in which 2,300,000 shares of common stock (including the exercise in full of the underwriters option to purchase 300,000 shares) were issued and sold at $120.00 per share. We received net proceeds of $263.9 million after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions of $11.0 million and offering expenses of $1.0 million. In August 2021, we issued $661.3 million aggregate principal amount of 0.25% convertible senior notes due 2026, or the Notes, (including the exercise in full of the initial purchasers option of an additional $86.3 million aggregate principal of additional Notes) in a private placement to qualified institutional buyers. The net proceeds from the sale of the Notes were $645.5 million after deducting debt issuance costs. As of March 31, 2022, our primary source of liquidity was cash of $757.8 million. Changes in the balance of cash are generally a result of working capital fluctuations or the timing of purchases and sales of loans facilitated through our platform. To finance purchases of certain loans facilitated through our platform, we rely on our warehouse credit facilities through the special-purpose trusts, or the warehouse trusts. We may borrow up to $100.0 million under the ULT Credit Facility to purchase unsecured personal loans and we may borrow up to $100.0 million under the UAWT Credit Facility to purchase secured auto loans. Loans purchased by these trusts are classified as held-for-sale and can be sold to third-party investors or in securitization transactions to generate additional liquidity. Material Cash Requirements 55 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Our current and long-term material cash requirements as of March 31, 2022 consist of convertible senior notes, warehouse credit facilities, operating leases, and purchase commitments. Our convertible senior notes have a principal balance of $661.3 million and bear interest at a rate of 0.25% per year, payable semiannually in arrears on February 15 and August 15 of each year. The Notes mature on August 15, 2026 unless earlier converted, redeemed, or repurchased in accordance with their terms. See Note 7. Borrowings in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for further details on our Notes. Our warehouse credit facilities, which allow us to borrow up to an aggregate of $200.0 million, mature between 2023 and 2024. As of March 31, 2022, we have drawn an aggregate of $121.6 million on our warehouse credit facilities. See Note 7. Borrowings in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for further details on our warehouse credit facilities. We lease office facilities under operating lease agreements which expire between 2027 and 2032. Our cash requirements related to these lease agreements are $127.0 million, of which $12.8 million is expected to be paid within the next 12 months. See Note 9. Leases in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for further details on our operating lease obligations. We have committed to purchase loans from certain bank partners at the conclusion of the required holding period, which is generally equal to three business days. As of March 31, 2022, the total loan purchase commitment was $114.2 million. See Note 10. Commitments and Contingencies in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for further details on our loan purchase obligations. While we believe that our cash on hand and our cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our liquidity needs for at least the next 12 months, our future capital requirements will depend on multiple factors, including our revenue growth, working capital requirements, volume of loan purchases for product development purposes or during market downturns, and our capital expenditures. We may decide to raise additional capital through the sale of equity, equity-linked or debt securities or other debt financing arrangements. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or equity-linked securities, our stockholders may experience dilution. Future debt financing, if available, may involve covenants restricting our operations or our ability to incur additional debt. Any debt or equity financing that we raise may contain terms that are not favorable to us or our stockholders. Further, if we are unable to raise additional capital when our cash balances and cash generated by operations are insufficient to satisfy liquidity needs, our results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely impacted. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements In the ordinary course of business, we engage in activities that are not reflected on our condensed consolidated balance sheets, generally referred to as off-balance sheet arrangements. These activities involve transactions with unconsolidated VIEs, including our sponsored and co-sponsored securitization transactions, which we contractually service. We use these transactions to provide a source of liquidity to finance our business and to diversify our investor base. When we are the retaining sponsor, we are required by law to retain at least 5% of the credit risk of the securities issued in these securitizations. We provide additional information regarding transactions with unconsolidated VIEs in Note 3. Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows during the periods indicated: 56 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2022 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 43,092 $ (266,795) Net cash provided by investing activities 902 5,177 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (19,261) 83,071 Net increase (decrease) in cash and restricted cash $ 24,733 $ (178,547) Net Cash from Operating Activities Our main sources of cash provided by operating activities are our revenue from fees earned under contracts with bank partners and loan investors and interest income we receive for loans held on our balance sheet. Our main uses of cash in our operating activities include payments to marketing partners, vendor payments, payroll and other personnel-related expenses, payments for facilities, and other general business expenditures. Net cash used in operating activities was $266.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, which primarily consisted of a decrease of $337.7 million in net operating assets and liabilities, adjustments for non-cash items of $38.3 million, and net income of $32.7 million. The decrease in net operating assets and liabilities was primarily related to $443.2 million in purchases of loans held-for-sale, partially offset by $71.1 million principal payment and proceeds from the sale of loans classified as held-for-sale, a $32.2 million increase in payable to investors, and a $7.3 million decrease in operating assets, which was predominately driven by an decrease in servicing fees and other receivables. Net Cash from Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities was $5.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 as a result of $9.4 million principal payments received for loans held-for-investment, partially offset by $3.7 million in capitalized software costs and $1.6 million in purchases of property and equipment. Net Cash from Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $83.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 as a result of $80.0 million proceeds from borrowings, partially offset by a $7.0 million in payments on borrowings. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ significantly from our estimates. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. Our significant accounting policies are described in Part II, Item 7, Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021. There have been no material changes in the three months ended March 31, 2022 to these policies and estimates since our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the year ended December 31, 2021, except for the estimated fair value of performance-based restricted stock as described in Note 1. Description of Business and Significant Accounting Policies and Note 9. Stockholders Equity in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q. Recent Accounting Pronouncements 57 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) See Note 1. Description of Business and Significant Accounting Policies in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for recently adopted accounting pronouncements and recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted as March 31, 2022. 58 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc.