Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those identified below and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors and other parts of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future. Overview Upstart applies artificial intelligence (AI) models and cloud applications to the process of underwriting consumer credit. Our AI marketplace connects consumers with our lending partners. Consumers can access Upstart-powered loans via Upstart.com, through a lender-branded product on our lending partners own websites, and through auto dealerships that use our Upstart Auto Retail software. We enable our lending partners to provide an exceptional digital-first experience to consumers and originate valuable credit products. As our technology continues to improve and additional lending partners adopt our platform, consumers benefit from improved access to affordable and frictionless credit. We believe that banks and other traditional lenders will continue to be at the forefront of consumer lending in the United States. We believe AI lending will become increasingly critical as this industry continues to undergo a broad digital transformation. Our strategy is to partner with banks and credit unions and provide them with access to an AI lending marketplace that they can configure as they originate consumer loans, according to their own business and regulatory requirements. Loans issued through our marketplace are retained by our lending partners, purchased by our network of institutional investors, or funded by Upstarts balance sheet. Investors may also invest in Upstart-powered loans through our pass-through and securitization programs. We believe that institutional investors, often referred to as private credit, have played an increasingly large role in financing consumer lending in the United States and we have adapted our strategy to take advantage of this opportunity. Out of the total principal of loans transacted on our marketplace during the three months ended March 31, 2025, 60% were purchased by institutional investors, 29% were retained by our lending partners, and 11% were held on our balance sheet. We retain loans on our balance sheet to fill gaps in investor demand, to aid in price discovery, and for research and development purposes (R&D Loans), including to test and evaluate our AI models for these loans. R&D Loans are primarily our auto refinance and auto retail loan products, personal loan products issued to new categories of borrowers, and other new loan products, including small dollar loans and HELOCs. R&D Loans are not yet part of our fully-established capital markets programs with institutional investors and we continue our work on developing such programs. The remainder of loans on our balance sheet represent core personal loans, which Upstart would sell to institutional investors. To improve the loan funding capacity for our marketplace across business and macroeconomic cycles, we have secured multiple committed capital and other co-investment arrangements with institutional investors and lending partners beginning in 2023, which have delivered a significant amount of loan funding to the Upstart marketplace. While these efforts have strengthened the amount and resiliency of our loan funding, we continue to secure additional capital to support the growth of our business and further diversify our sources of capital and institutional investor base to ensure long-term scalability. 57 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Credit Performance We consider credit performance of Upstart-powered loans to be one of the most important measures of the effectiveness of our AI models. However, credit performance is impacted by multiple factors, including factors that our models do not predict, such as macroeconomic conditions. Lending is a cyclical industry, and we believe it is important to take a long-term view of credit performance. An equal investment in all vintages of Upstart-powered core personal loans that originated in the first quarter of 2018 through the fourth quarter of 2024 is currently expected to deliver annual returns in line with a blended target of approximately 9.7%, or 9.0% after servicing fees. Looking at more recent performance, an equal investment in all vintages of Upstart-powered core personal loans that originated in the first quarter of 2023 through the fourth quarter of 2024 is currently expected to deliver annual returns in line with a blended target of approximately 13.0%, or 12.2% after servicing fees. We evaluate the credit performance of core personal loans by comparing the target returns expected at the time of origination to the returns received by our lending partners, institutional investors, or us. The target return, a critical component of our loan pricing, is calculated using estimated cash flows, which are developed based on a number of factors, including credit losses and prepayment rates. While target returns across our lending partners and institutional investors vary depending on their programs objectives and risk tolerance, overall performance is calculated based on the variance between the initially expected returns and the actual return on capital invested in Upstart-powered loans. At a more granular level, all quarterly vintages of core personal loans that originated in the first quarter of 2023 through the first quarter of 2024 are currently forecasted to underperform relative to their target returns. Even though our underwriting models have over time utilized more variables and data points about borrowers which has improved model performance, they were not designed to predict the severe impact changing macroeconomic conditions, credit market volatility and interest rate fluctuations that occurred following the COVID-19 pandemic, all of which were (and still are) beyond our control. The forecasted underperformance for these vintages reflects the impact of a combination of factors that occurred during that period, including the elimination of government stimulus measures and the worsening of the macroeconomic environment, via rising inflation and the resulting sharply higher interest rates. The core personal loans that originated in the second quarter of 2024 or later are currently forecasted to deliver returns in line with target yields. This reversion in performance, relative to the quarterly vintages of core personal loans that originated in the first quarter 2023 through the first quarter 2024, was driven by a combination of factors including increased conservatism in underwriting, the relative stabilization of macroeconomic conditions, and improvements in our more recent models. Impact of Macroeconomic Environment In addition to impacting credit performance, the macroeconomic environment has a direct and indirect impact on our business financial condition, and results of operation. In an economic downturn, we believe consumer lending will generally contract. Lending partners and institutional investors will generally require higher rates of return, which in turn increases the interest rates offered to borrowers, leading to lower borrower demand. Macroeconomic factors can also cause fluctuations of available capital in our lending marketplace due to shifts in the risk preferences of our lending partners and institutional investors. We expect these dynamics would generally invert in an economic upswing. For example, loan funding provided by institutional investors started to become constrained in 2022, largely due to concerns about the macroeconomic environment. Rising interest rates also led to more expensive loan offers across borrower categories, which decreased borrower demand. In order to create greater stability for our business, we began securing committed capital and co-investment arrangements with institutional investors and 58 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) other third parties that provide loan funding over longer durations. While we believe that the macroeconomic environment started to improve in 2024, disruption in financial markets could once again lower borrower demand or impair our lending partners and result in constrained funding, which would adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. To respond to macroeconomic changes and provide relevant and up-to-date information to our lending partners, we introduced a new metric, the Upstart Macro Index (UMI), in 2023. Since its peak starting in the fourth quarter of 2023, UMI has been largely improving. As of March 31, 2025, it remains elevated but stable, measured at approximately 1.49, meaning that current macroeconomic conditions contributed an incremental risk of approximately 49% to the repayment performance of an Upstart-powered unsecured personal loan, compared to the baseline measurement of 1.0. Key Operating and Non-GAAP Financial Metrics We focus on several key operating and Non-GAAP financial metrics to measure the performance of our business and help determine strategic direction. The following presents our key operating and financial metrics: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2025 Transaction Volume, Dollars $ 1,130,799 $ 2,133,608 Transaction Volume, Number of Loans(1) 119,380 240,706 Conversion Rate 14.0% 19.1% Percentage of Loans Fully Automated 90% 92% Contribution Profit(2) $ 81,142 $ 102,372 Contribution Margin(2) 59% 55% Adjusted EBITDA(2) $ (20,339) $ 42,577 Adjusted EBITDA Margin(2) (16)% 20% Adjusted Net Income (Loss)(2) $ (27,165) $ 31,189 Adjusted Net Income (Loss) Per Share: Basic(2) $ (0.31) $ 0.33 Diluted(2) $ (0.31) $ 0.30 _______ (1)Transaction Volume, Number of Loans is shown in ones for the periods presented. (2)Represents a non-GAAP financial measure. See the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsReconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures for further information. 59 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Transaction Volume We define Transaction Volume, Dollars as the total principal of loan originations (or committed amounts for HELOCs) facilitated on our marketplace during the periods presented. We define Transaction Volume, Number of Loans as the number of loan originations (or commitments issued for HELOCs) facilitated on our marketplace during the periods presented. Increases in Transaction Volume are dependent on our loan funding programs having sufficient access to capital. Decreases in the availability of funding due to factors such as volatility in the capital markets and macroeconomic conditions will generally cause a decline in Transaction Volume. Transaction Volume is driven by improvements in our AI models and technology, including our ability to streamline and automate the loan application and origination process. Transaction Volume can also be driven by several other factors, including borrower acceptance rates and their sensitivity to the interest rates offered through our platform. We believe these metrics are good proxies for our overall scale and reach as a marketplace. Transaction Volume, Dollars increased 89% in the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the same period of 2024 and Transaction Volume, Number of Loans increased 102% in the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the same period of 2024. These increases were primarily due to model improvements and product initiatives, which resulted in an increase in the number of qualified borrowers and more attractive loan offers. The increase in Transaction Volume, Number of Loans was higher than the increase in Transaction Volume, Dollars due to the decrease in average loan size, primarily due to the increase in small dollar loans. Conversion Rate We define Conversion Rate as the Transaction Volume, Number of Loans in a period divided by the number of rate inquiries received that we estimate to be legitimate, which we record when a borrower requests a loan offer on our platform. We track this metric to understand the impact of improvements to the efficiency of our borrower funnel on our overall growth. Historically, our Conversion Rate has benefited from improvements to our technology, which have made our evaluation of risk more accurate and our verification process more automated, or from the addition of lending partners that have made our offers more competitive. However, our Conversion Rate can be impacted by a variety of internal factors such as changes in the amount of origination fees that we charge or changes in the rate of returns we target for our lending partners and institutional investors. External factors such as shifts in macroeconomic conditions, including interest rate changes, also impact our Conversion Rate. Our ability to continue to improve our Conversion Rate depends in part on our ability to continue to improve our AI models and Percentage of Loans Fully Automated and the mix of marketing channels in any given period. Our Conversion Rate increased to 19.1% in the three months ended March 31, 2025 from 14.0% in the same period of 2024, primarily driven by underwriting model improvements and product and pricing initiatives, coupled with continued optimization in our acquisition channels. Percentage of Loans Fully Automated A driver of our Contribution Margin and operating efficiency is the Percentage of Loans Fully Automated, which is defined as the total number of loans in a given period originated end-to-end (from initial rate request to final funding for personal loans and small dollar loans and from initial rate request to signing of the loan agreement for auto loans) with no human involvement required by the Company divided by the Transaction Volume, Number of Loans in the same period. We have been successful in increasing the level of loan automation on the platform over the past few years while simultaneously holding fraud rates at very low levels. We believe our growth over the last several years has been driven in part by our ability to rapidly streamline and automate the loan application and origination process on our platform. We expect growth of the Percentage of Loans Fully Automated to subside in the near term. However, as we expand our loan offerings, this percentage may fluctuate from period to period depending on the loan offering mix and other external factors. Our Percentage of Loans Fully Automated increased to 92% in the three months ended March 31, 2025 from 90% in the same period of 2024. 60 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin We use Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin as part of our overall assessment of performance, including the preparation of our annual operating budget and quarterly forecasts, to evaluate the effectiveness of our business strategies, and to communicate with our Board of Directors concerning our financial performance. We believe Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin are useful to investors for year-to-year comparisons of our business and in evaluating and understanding our operating results and ability to scale. Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin are also useful to investors because our management uses Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin, in conjunction with financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP, to evaluate our operating results and financial performance and the effectiveness of our strategies. Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin have limitations as an analytical tool, and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin are not GAAP financial measures of, nor do they imply, profitability. Even if our revenue exceeds variable expenses over time, we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability, and the relationship of revenue to variable expenses is not necessarily indicative of future performance. Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin reflect all expenses that we consider to be variable, which may involve some judgment and discretion around what costs vary directly with loan volume. Other companies that present contribution profit and contribution margin may calculate it differently and, therefore, similarly titled measures presented by other companies may not be directly comparable to ours. To derive Contribution Profit, we subtract from revenue from fees, net our borrower acquisition costs as well as our borrower verification and servicing costs. To calculate Contribution Margin we divide Contribution Profit by revenue from fees, net. The following table provides a calculation of Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2025 Revenue from fees, net $ 138,068 $ 185,475 Borrower acquisition costs(1) (24,819) (48,562) Borrower verification and servicing costs(2) (32,107) (34,541) Total direct expenses (56,926) (83,103) Contribution Profit $ 81,142 $ 102,372 Contribution Margin 59 % 55 % _______ (1)Borrower acquisition costs consist of our sales and marketing expenses adjusted to exclude costs not directly attributable to attracting a new borrower, such as payroll-related expenses for our business development and marketing teams, as well as other operational, brand awareness and marketing activities. These costs do not include reorganization expenses. (2)Borrower verification and servicing costs consist of payroll and other personnel-related expenses for personnel engaged in loan onboarding, verification and servicing, as well as servicing system costs. It excludes payroll and personnel-related expenses and stock-based compensation for certain members of our customer operations team whose work is not directly attributable to onboarding and servicing loans. These costs do not include reorganization expenses. See the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsReconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures for a reconciliation of loss from operations to Contribution Profit. 61 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin We believe that Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin are useful for investors to use in comparing our financial performance with the performance of other companies for the following reasons: Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin are widely used by investors and securities analysts to measure a companys operating performance without regard to items such as depreciation, and interest expense, that can vary substantially from company to company depending upon their financing and capital structures, and the method by which assets were acquired; and Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin eliminate the impact of certain items such as stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense, expense on convertible notes, gain on debt extinguishment and reorganization expenses that may obscure trends in the underlying performance of our business; and Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin provide consistency and comparability with our past financial performance, and facilitate comparisons with other companies, many of which use similar non-GAAP financial measures to supplement their GAAP results. We calculate Adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss) adjusted to exclude stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expenses, depreciation and amortization, expense on convertible notes, provision for income taxes, gain on debt extinguishment and reorganization expenses. We calculate Adjusted EBITDA Margin as Adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin includes interest expense from corporate debt and warehouse credit facilities which is incurred in the course of earning corresponding interest income. See the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsReconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures for a reconciliation of net income (loss) to Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin. Adjusted Net Income (Loss) and Adjusted Net Income (Loss) Per Share We believe Adjusted Net Income (Loss) and Adjusted Net Income (Loss) Per Share are useful measures for investors in evaluating our ability to generate earnings, more readily comparable between past and future periods, and provide comparability of our performance with performance of other companies. We define Adjusted Net Income (Loss) as net income (loss) exclusive of stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expenses as well as certain items that are not related to core business and ongoing operations, such as gain on debt extinguishment and reorganization expenses. Adjusted Net Income (Loss) Per Share is calculated by dividing Adjusted Net Income (Loss) Per Share by the weighted-average common shares outstanding. See the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsReconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures for a reconciliation of net income (loss) to Adjusted Net Income (Loss) and Adjusted Net Income (Loss) per Share. Components of Results of Operations Revenue from Fees, Net Platform and Referral Fees, Net We charge our lending partners platform fees in exchange for usage of our AI lending marketplace, which includes collection of loan application data, underwriting of credit risk, verification and fraud detection, and the delivery of electronic loan offers and associated documentation. We also charge referral fees to our lending partners in exchange for the referral of borrowers from Upstart.com. Referral fees are charged to lending partners on a per borrower basis upon origination of a loan. These fees are charged net of any fees the lending partner charges Upstart. Upstart pays these lending partners a one-time loan premium fee upon completion of the minimum holding periods. Upstart also pays certain lending partners monthly loan trailing fees based on the amount and timing of principal and interest payments made by borrowers of the underlying loans. 62 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) The Company also recognizes fees in relation to contracts with auto dealers for the use of Upstart Auto Retail software, a cloud-based solution that facilitates dealership operations and enables them to provide consumers with access to Upstart-powered auto loans. Refer to Note 2. Revenue to our condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information. Servicing and Other Fees, Net Servicing fees are calculated as a percentage of outstanding principal and are charged monthly to any entities holding loans facilitated through our marketplace, to compensate us for activities we perform throughout the loan term, including collection, processing and reconciliations of payments received, institutional investor reporting and borrower customer support. Servicing fees are recorded net of any gains, losses or changes to fair value recognized in the underlying servicing rights and obligations, which are carried as assets and liabilities on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. Upstart currently acts as loan servicer for substantially all outstanding loans facilitated through the Upstart marketplace. Borrower payment collections for loans that are more than 30 days past due or charged off are generally outsourced to third-party collection agencies. Upstart charges lending partners and institutional investors for collection agency fees related to their outstanding loan portfolio. Upstart also receives certain ancillary fees on a per transaction basis inclusive of late payment fees and ACH fail fees. Interest Income, Interest Expense, and Fair Value Adjustments, Net Interest income, interest expense, and fair value adjustments, net is comprised of interest income, interest expense and net changes in the fair value of financial instruments held on our condensed consolidated balance sheets as part of our ongoing operating activities, excluding loan servicing assets and liabilities. Interest income, interest expense, and fair value adjustments, net also includes realized gain or loss on the sale of loans. Interest income, interest expense, and fair value adjustments, net can fluctuate based on the fair value of financial instruments held on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. This amount has historically been a small percentage of our total revenue, and we do not manage our business with a focus on growing this component of revenue. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of costs incurred across various advertising channels, including expenses for partnerships with third parties providing borrower referrals, direct mail and digital advertising campaigns, as well as other expenses associated with building overall brand awareness and experiential marketing costs. Sales and marketing expenses also include payroll and other personnel-related costs, including stock-based compensation expense. These costs are recognized in the period incurred. We expect that our sales and marketing expenses will generally fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue from period to period and may increase as we hire additional sales and marketing personnel, increase our marketing activities and build greater brand awareness. Customer Operations Customer operations expenses include payroll and other personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation expense, for personnel engaged in borrower onboarding, loan servicing, customer support and other operational teams. These costs also include systems, third-party services and tools we use as part of loan servicing, information verification, fraud detection and payment processing activities. These costs are recognized in the period incurred. We expect that our customer operations expenses will generally fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue from period to period, and may increase in absolute dollars as we expand our portfolio. 63 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Engineering and Product Development Engineering and product development expenses primarily consist of payroll and other personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation expense, for the engineering and product development teams as well as the costs of systems and tools used by these teams. These costs are recognized in the period incurred. We expect that our engineering and product development expenses will generally fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue from period to period, and may increase in absolute dollars as we expand our engineering and product development team to continue to improve our AI models and develop new products and product enhancements. General, Administrative and Other General, administrative and other expenses consist primarily of payroll and other personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation expense, for legal and compliance, finance and accounting, human resources and facilities teams, as well as depreciation and amortization of property, equipment, software, and intangibles, professional services fees, facilities and travel expenses. These costs are recognized in the period incurred. We expect to increase the size of our general and administrative function to support the further growth of our business. As a result, we expect that our general, administrative and other expenses will increase in absolute dollars but may fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue from period to period. Other Income, Net Other income, net primarily consists of dividend income earned by the Company on its unrestricted cash and cash equivalents balances in addition to coupon interest expense and amortization of the debt discount on our Notes. 64 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Results of Operations The following table summarizes our historical condensed consolidated statements of operations data: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2025 Revenue: Revenue from fees, net $ 138,068 $ 185,475 Interest income, interest expense, and fair value adjustments, net: Interest income 51,171 40,568 Interest expense (10,714) (7,020) Fair value and other adjustments, net (50,731) (5,652) Total interest income, interest expense, and fair value adjustments, net (10,274) 27,896 Total revenue 127,794 213,371 Operating expenses(1): Sales and marketing 35,150 58,970 Customer operations 39,408 40,501 Engineering and product development 63,091 57,838 General, administrative, and other 57,613 60,558 Total operating expenses 195,262 217,867 Loss from operations (67,468) (4,496) Other income, net 2,884 2,078 Net loss before income taxes (64,584) (2,418) Provision for income taxes 14 29 Net loss $ (64,598) $ (2,447) ________ (1)Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2025 Sales and marketing $ 2,978 $ 2,703 Customer operations 1,963 1,646 Engineering and product development 19,210 14,552 General, administrative, and other 11,626 10,930 Total stock-based compensation $ 35,777 $ 29,831 65 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Revenue Revenue from Fees, Net The following table set forth our revenue from fees, net in the periods shown: Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2025 $ % Platform and referral fees, net $ 103,859 $ 150,975 $ 47,116 45 % Servicing and other fees, net 34,209 34,500 291 1 % Total revenue from fees, net $ 138,068 $ 185,475 $ 47,407 34 % Revenue from fees, net increased $47.4 million, or 34%, in the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to the same period in 2024, which included an increase of $47.1 million in revenue from platform and referral fees, net, and an increase of $0.3 million in servicing fees, net. The increase of the platform and referral fees, net was primarily driven by a 89% increase in the Transaction Volume, Dollars from $1,130.8 million in the three months ended March 31, 2024 to $2,133.6 million in the same period in 2025, partially offset by a decrease in prices of our services, including those related to prime borrowers. The increase in servicing fees was primarily due to an increase in outstanding principal of serviced loans. Interest Income, Interest Expense, and Fair Value Adjustments, Net Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2025 $ % Operating entities(1): Interest income $ 42,547 $ 35,456 $ (7,091) (17) % Interest expense (7,954) (5,171) 2,783 35 % Fair value adjustments, net (40,080) (1,872) 38,208 95 % Consolidated securitization entities: Interest income 8,624 5,112 (3,512) (41) % Interest expense (2,760) (1,849) 911 33 % Fair value adjustments, net (10,651) (3,780) 6,871 65 % Total Company: Interest income 51,171 40,568 (10,603) (21) % Interest expense (10,714) (7,020) 3,694 34 % Fair value adjustments, net (50,731) (5,652) 45,079 89 % Total interest income, interest expense, and fair value adjustments, net $ (10,274) $ 27,896 $ 38,170 372 % _________ (1)Consists of balances recognized by entities participating in ongoing operating activities of the Company, excluding entities associated with the UPST 2023-2 consolidated securitization. Interest income, interest expense, and fair value adjustments, net increased $38.2 million, or 372% in the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to the same period in 2024. The increase was driven by a $45.1 million decrease in unfavorable fair value adjustments and a $3.7 million decrease in interest expense, partially offset by a $10.6 million decrease in interest income. The decrease in unfavorable fair value adjustments is attributable to a $31.7 million decrease in fair value loss on beneficial interests, a $8.3 million decrease in unrealized loss and loan charge-offs, and a $5.1 million decrease in realized loss on loan sales during the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the same period in 2024. The decrease in interest expense resulted from the decrease in fair value of interest rate caps and a $0.9 million decrease in interest expense recognized by consolidated 66 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) securitization entities due to lower payable to securitization note holders in the period. The decrease in unfavorable fair value adjustments and decrease in interest expense was partially offset by a decrease in interest income due to a $7.1 million decrease in interest income recognized by operating entities and a $3.5 million decrease in interest income recognized by consolidated securitization entities, consistent with a decrease in the average outstanding principal balance of loans held on the condensed consolidated balance sheets by operating entities during the period and a decrease in the outstanding principal balance of loans held in the consolidated securitization during the period. Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2025 $ % Sales and marketing $ 35,150 $ 58,970 $ 23,820 68 % % of revenue 28 % 28 % Sales and marketing expenses increased by $23.8 million, or 68%, in the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the same period in 2024, which was driven primarily by a $23.7 million increase in advertising and borrower acquisition costs. As a percentage of total revenue, sales and marketing expenses remained flat at 28%. Customer Operations Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2025 $ % Customer operations $ 39,408 $ 40,501 $ 1,093 3% % of revenue 31 % 19 % Customer operations expenses increased by $1.1 million, or 3%, in the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to the same period in 2024. The increase was primarily due to a $3.2 million increase in information verification expenses and a $1.7 million increase in servicing expenses. The increase was partially offset by a $3.7 million decrease in payroll and other personnel-related expenses due to a decrease in headcount and a $0.2 million decrease in refunds due to overpayment. As a percentage of total revenue, customer operations expenses decreased from 31% to 19%. Engineering and Product Development Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2025 $ % Engineering and product development $ 63,091 $ 57,838 $ (5,253) (8)% % of revenue 49 % 27 % Engineering and product development expenses decreased by $5.3 million, or 8%, for the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to the same period in 2024. The decrease was primarily due to a $8.0 million decrease in payroll and other personnel-related expenses from capitalization of internal-use software development costs, offset by a $2.7 million increase in other engineering operating expenses. As a percentage of total revenue, engineering and product development expenses decreased from 49% to 27%. 67 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) General, Administrative, and Other Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2025 $ % General, administrative, and other $ 57,613 $ 60,558 $ 2,945 5 % % of revenue 45 % 28 % General, administrative, and other expenses increased by $2.9 million, or 5%, in the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to the same period in 2024. The increase was primarily due to a $3.1 million increase in payroll and other personnel-related expenses, $1.7 million increase in professional expenses, and $0.8 million increase in depreciation expenses, partially offset by a $2.7 million decrease in legal and compliance expenses. As a percentage of total revenue, general, administrative, and other expenses decreased from 45% to 28%. Other Income, Net Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2025 $ % Other income, net $ 2,884 $ 2,078 $ (806) (28) % In the three months ended March 31, 2025, other income, net decreased by $0.8 million, or 28%, compared to the same period in 2024, due to a $3.8 million increase in interest expense related to our Notes as a result of issuances of 2029 and 2030 Notes and a $0.1 million decrease in miscellaneous other income, net, partially offset by a $3.1 million increase in dividend income. Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures To supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP, we use the non-GAAP financial measures of Contribution Profit, Contribution Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin, Adjusted Net Income (Loss), and Adjusted Net Income (Loss) Per Share to provide investors with additional information about our financial performance and to enhance the overall understanding of our past performance and future prospects. We are presenting these non-GAAP financial measures because we believe they provide an additional tool for investors to use in comparing our core financial performance over multiple years with the performance of other companies. However, non-GAAP financial measures have limitations in their usefulness to investors because they have no standardized meaning prescribed by GAAP and are not prepared under any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. In addition, non-GAAP financial measures may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be directly comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies. As a result, non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed as supplementing, and not as an alternative or substitute for, our condensed consolidated financial statements prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP. In particular, some of the limitations with respect to Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Margin are as follows: Although depreciation expense is a non-cash charge, the assets being depreciated may have to be replaced in the future, and Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin do not reflect cash capital expenditure requirements for such replacements or for new capital expenditure requirements; Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin exclude stock-based compensation expense and certain employer payroll taxes on employee stock transactions. Stock-based compensation expense has been, and will continue to be for the foreseeable future, a significant recurring expense for our business 68 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) and an important part of our compensation strategy. The amount of employer payroll tax-related expense on employee stock transactions is dependent on our stock price and other factors that are beyond our control and do not correlate to the operation of the business; Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin do not reflect: (1) changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs; (2) interest expense, or the cash requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments on our debt, which reduces cash available to us; or (3) tax payments that may represent a reduction in cash available to us; and The expenses and other items that we exclude in our calculation of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin may differ from the expenses and other items, if any, that other companies may exclude from adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin when they report their operating results. To address these limitations, we provide a reconciliation of Contribution Profit, Contribution Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin, Adjusted Net Income (Loss), and Adjusted Net Income (Loss) Per Share to income (loss) from operations and net income (loss), respectively. We encourage investors and others to review our financial information in its entirety, not to rely on any single financial measure and to view Contribution Profit, Contribution Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin, Adjusted Net Income (Loss), and Adjusted Net Income (Loss) Per Share in conjunction with their respective related GAAP financial measures. Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin The following table presents a reconciliation of loss from operations to Contribution Profit and Contribution Margin. We define Operating Margin as our loss from operations divided by revenue from fees, net. Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2025 Revenue from fees, net $ 138,068 $ 185,475 Loss from operations (67,468) (4,496) Operating Margin (49) % (2) % Sales and marketing, net of borrower acquisition costs(1) $ 10,331 $ 10,408 Customer operations, net of borrower verification and servicing costs(2) 7,301 5,960 Engineering and product development 63,091 57,838 General, administrative, and other 57,613 60,558 Interest income, interest expense, and fair value adjustments, net 10,274 (27,896) Contribution Profit $ 81,142 $ 102,372 Contribution Margin 59 % 55 % _________ (1)Borrower acquisition costs were $24.8 million and $48.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2025, respectively. Borrower acquisition costs consist of our sales and marketing expenses adjusted to exclude costs not directly attributable to attracting a new borrower, such as payroll-related expenses for our business development and marketing teams, as well as other operational, brand awareness and marketing activities. These costs do not include reorganization expenses. (2)Borrower verification and servicing costs were $32.1 million, and $34.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2025, respectively. Borrower verification and servicing costs consist of payroll and other personnel-related expenses for personnel engaged in loan onboarding, verification and servicing, as well as servicing system costs. It excludes payroll and personnel-related expenses and stock-based compensation for certain members of our customer operations team whose work is not directly attributable to onboarding and servicing loans. These costs do not include reorganization expenses. 69 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin The following table provides a reconciliation of net loss and Net Loss Margin to Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin. We define Net Loss Margin as net loss divided by total revenue. Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2025 Total revenue $ 127,794 $ 213,371 Net loss (64,598) (2,447) Net Loss Margin (51) % (1) % Adjusted to exclude the following: Stock-based compensation and certain payroll tax expenses(1) $ 37,433 $ 33,636 Depreciation and amortization 5,632 6,400 Expense on convertible notes 1,180 4,959 Provision for income taxes 14 29 Adjusted EBITDA $ (20,339) $ 42,577 Adjusted EBITDA Margin (16) % 20 % _________ (1)Payroll tax expenses include the employer payroll tax-related expense on employee stock transactions, as the amount is dependent on our stock price and other factors that are beyond our control and do not correlate to the operation of our business. Adjusted Net Income (Loss) and Adjusted Net Income (Loss) Per Share The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss to Adjusted Net Income (Loss) and Adjusted Net Income (Loss) Per Share. Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2025 Net loss $ (64,598) $ (2,447) Adjusted to exclude the following: Stock-based compensation and certain payroll tax expenses(1) 37,433 33,636 Adjusted Net Income (Loss) $ (27,165) $ 31,189 Net loss per share: Basic $ (0.74) $ (0.03) Diluted $ (0.74) $ (0.03) Adjusted Net Income (Loss) Per Share: Basic $ (0.31) $ 0.33 Diluted $ (0.31) $ 0.30 Weighted-average common shares outstanding: Basic 87,030,695 94,274,538 Diluted 87,030,695 103,569,446 _________ (1)Payroll tax expenses include the amount of employer payroll tax-related expense on employee stock transactions, as the amount is dependent on our stock price and other factors that are beyond our control and do not correlate to the operation of our business. 70 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources and Uses of Cash and Cash Equivalents As of March 31, 2025, our primary source of liquidity was cash and cash equivalents of $599.8 million. We also held $5.0 million of investments in certificates of deposit with maturities greater than three months as of March 31, 2025. Changes in the balance of cash and cash equivalents are generally a result of working capital fluctuations and the timing of purchases and sales of loans facilitated through our marketplace. To finance purchases of certain loans facilitated through our lending marketplace, we rely on our warehouse credit facilities through the special-purpose trusts and corporate cash. Our convertible senior notes have an aggregate principal balance of $1,230.4 million and bear interest at a rate of 0.25% per year in the case of the 2026 Notes, 2.00% per year in the case of the 2029 Notes, and 1.00% per year in the case of the 2030 Notes, in each case payable semiannually. The 2026 Notes mature on August 15, 2026, the 2029 Notes mature on October 1, 2029, and the 2030 Notes mature on November 15, 2030, in each case unless earlier converted, redeemed, or repurchased in accordance with their terms. Refer to Note 8. Borrowings in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further details on our Notes. Our warehouse credit facilities, which mature between December 2025 and June 2028, allow us to borrow up to an aggregate of $475.0 million to purchase unsecured personal loans, $100.0 million to purchase small dollar loans, and up to $50.0 million to purchase auto loans. As of June 14, 2024, the revolving period ended for Upstart Auto Warehouse Trust, and we may no longer draw from the facility. The Upstart Auto Warehouse Trust facility matures in December 2025, by which time all outstanding amounts owed must be repaid. As of March 31, 2025, we have drawn an aggregate of $127.0 million on our warehouse credit facilities. Refer to Note 8. Borrowings in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further details on our warehouse credit facilities. We have also entered into an at the market offering program pursuant to which we may offer and sell, from time to time, shares of our common stock with an aggregate offering price of up to $500 million, as described in the prospectus supplement dated February 14, 2025 filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We lease office facilities under operating lease agreements which expire between 2027 and 2029. Our cash requirements related to these lease agreements are $52.0 million, of which $15.5 million is expected to be paid within the next 12 months. Refer to Note 10. Leases in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further details on our operating lease obligations. We have committed to purchase loans from certain lending partners at the conclusion of the required holding period, which is generally equal to three business days. As of March 31, 2025, the total loan purchase commitment was $89.3 million. We have also extended a line of credit to a third-party in connection with one of our committed capital and other co-investment arrangements. As of March 31, 2025, the Company had unfunded commitments related to the line of credit of $7.8 million. The Company also has commitments to fund future advances on HELOCs. As of March 31, 2025, these commitments were $11.2 million, however since we can limit these commitments under certain conditions or these commitments could expire without being drawn upon, the total commitment amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. See Note 11. Commitments and Contingencies in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further details on our commitments. In connection with our committed capital and other co-investment arrangements, we are obligated to put a certain amount of our assets at risk in relation to the credit performance of the underlying loans. The risk in these arrangements is subject to a dollar cap, which represents the Companys maximum exposure to losses in a particular arrangement under severe, hypothetical circumstances, for which the Company believes the possibility is remote. As of March 31, 2025, the Companys aggregate maximum exposure to losses was $553.6 million. Refer to Note 4. Beneficial Interests in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further details on our committed capital and co-investment arrangements. Our cash requirements for the next 12 months related to investments in these existing arrangements is estimated to be up to $154.0 million. 71 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) While we believe that our cash and cash equivalents on hand will be sufficient to meet our liquidity needs for at least the next 12 months, our future capital requirements will depend on multiple factors, including our revenue growth, working capital requirements, volume of loan purchases for product development purposes or during market downturns, and our capital expenditures. We may decide to raise additional capital through the sale of equity, equity-linked or debt securities or other debt financing arrangements. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or equity-linked securities, our stockholders may experience dilution. Future debt financing, if available, may involve covenants restricting our operations or our ability to incur additional debt. Any debt or equity financing that we raise may contain terms that are not favorable to us or our stockholders. Further, if we are unable to raise additional capital when our cash and cash equivalents balances and cash generated by operations are insufficient to satisfy liquidity needs, our results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely impacted. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows during the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2025 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities(1) $ 44,337 $ (13,486) Net cash used in investing activities (37,547) (78,569) Net cash used in financing activities(1) (35,426) (44,680) Change in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (28,636) $ (136,735) _________ (1)During the second quarter of 2024, the Company elected to change its presentation of changes in the payable to investors balance on the condensed consolidated statement of cash flows. Comparative amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. Refer to Note 1. Description of Business and Significant Accounting Policies for further information. Net Cash from Operating Activities Our main sources of cash provided by operating activities are our revenue from fees earned under contracts with lending partners and institutional investors and interest income we receive for loans held on our balance sheet. Our main uses of cash in our operating activities include payments to marketing partners, vendor payments, payroll and other personnel-related expenses, payments for facilities, and other general business expenditures. Net cash used in operating activities was $13.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, which consisted of adjustments for non-cash items of $17.4 million, $28.5 million in net changes in operating assets and liabilities, and net loss of $2.4 million. The increase in non-cash adjustments was primarily related to $29.8 million of stock-based compensation, $7.1 million of changes in fair value of loans, $6.4 million of depreciation and amortization, and $4.1 million of changes in fair value of servicing assets, partially offset by $17.6 million of changes in fair value of beneficial interest assets, $8.4 million of loan premium amortization, and a $4.9 million gain on loan servicing rights. The decrease in net changes in operating assets and liabilities was primarily related to a $48.8 million decrease in accrued expenses and other liabilities, $28.6 million of net payments from purchase and sale of loans held-for-sale, and $6.0 million of settlements of beneficial interest liabilities, partially offset by $38.3 million in principal payments received for loans held-for-sale, $10.3 million in principal payments received for loans held in consolidated securitization, and $6.4 million of changes in other assets. 72 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Net Cash from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $78.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 as a result of $149.9 million purchases and originations of loans held-for-investment and $6.2 million of capitalized software costs, partially offset by $57.4 million principal payments received for loans held-for-investment, $16.4 million proceeds from beneficial interest assets, and $2.7 million of principal payments received for notes receivable and repayments of residual certificates. Net Cash from Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $44.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 primarily due to $122.3 million repayments of warehouse borrowings and $11.4 million of principal payments made on securitization notes, partially offset by $53.7 million proceeds from warehouse borrowings, $22.9 million increase in amounts payable to investors, $8.2 million proceeds from exercise of stock options, and $4.7 million in proceeds from issuance of common stock under ESPP. Composition of Balance Sheet Loan Portfolio As of March 31, 2025, we held $814.7 million of loans on our condensed consolidated balance sheet. $538.2 million of these loans were originated for research and development purposes, primarily in support of our auto lending products, HELOCs, and expansion of our unsecured personal loan product to new categories of borrowers. We also held $187.6 million of core personal loans which would otherwise be immediately purchased by institutional investors and $88.9 million of core personal loans held by the consolidated securitization. We will continue to utilize our capital to support research and development activities and, at times, as a funding source for core personal loans during periods of marketplace funding constraints. The extent and timing of utilizing our capital as a funding source for loans will largely depend on the availability of capital in our marketplace relative to the demand from qualified borrowers and our business priorities. We plan to sell loans held on our balance sheet to institutional investors over time in the form of secondary sales or securitizations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements In the ordinary course of business, we engage in activities that are not reflected on our condensed consolidated balance sheets, generally referred to as off-balance sheet arrangements. These activities involve transactions with unconsolidated VIEs, including sale of whole loans, committed capital and other co-investment arrangements, and sponsored and co-sponsored securitization transactions, which we contractually service. We use these transactions to provide a source of liquidity to finance our business and to diversify our institutional investor base. If we are the retaining sponsor of a securitization transaction, we are required by law to retain at least 5% of the credit risk of the securities issued in these securitizations. We provide additional information regarding transactions with unconsolidated VIEs in Note 3. Variable Interest Entities in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ significantly from our estimates. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. Our critical accounting policies are described in Part II, Item 7, Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024. There have been no material changes to these policies for the three months ended March 31, 2025. 73 Table of Contents Upstart Holdings, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Recent Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 1. Description of Business and Significant Accounting Policies in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for recently adopted accounting pronouncements and recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted when applicable.