Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and ourconsolidated financial statements and related notes, before making a decision to invest in our common stock. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, or prospects could also be harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be adversely affected. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. SUMMARY OF RISK FACTORS The material risks that may affect our business, financial condition or results of operations include, but are not limited to, those relating to the following: Our business has been and will continue to be adversely affected by economic conditions and other factors that we cannot control. If we are unable to maintain diverse and resilient loan funding to our marketplace from institutional investors or successfully manage risks associated with committed capital and other co-investment arrangements, our growth prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we are unable to continue to improve our AI models or if our AI models contain errors or are otherwise ineffective, our growth prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. If our AI models do not accurately reflect the impact of economic conditions on borrowers credit risk in a timely manner, the performance of Upstart-powered loans may be worse than anticipated and our AI models may be perceived as ineffective. If we are unable to approve a significant number of borrowers for loans through our marketplace, our growth prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. If our existing lending partners cease or limit their participation in our marketplace or if we are unable to attract new lending partners to our marketplace, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. We have a relatively limited operating history, which may result in increased risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties, and makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects. If we are unable to manage the risks associated with the Upstart Macro Index (UMI), which we introduced in 2023 and which does not have a long history or proven track record, our credibility, reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We have incurred net losses, and we may not be able to achieve profitability in the future. If we are unable to manage risks associated with the loans on our balance sheet, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our revenue growth rate and financial performance in the past may not be indicative of future performance. Our quarterly results are likely to fluctuate and as a result may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. 25 Table of Contents Our loan funding arrangements with institutional investors, securitization programs and warehouse credit facilities expose us to certain risks, and if we fail to successfully manage such risks, it may result in the reduced supply of loan funding capital or require us to seek more costly or less efficient financing for our marketplace. Our top three lending partners account for a significant portion of loan originations on our marketplace and our revenue. Our reputation and brand are important to our success, and if we are unable to continue developing our reputation and brand, our ability to retain existing and attract new lending partners, our ability to attract borrowers to our marketplace, our ability to maintain diverse and resilient loan funding and our ability to maintain and improve our relationship with regulators of our industry could be adversely affected. Our business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations, many of which are evolving, and failure or perceived failure to comply with such laws and regulations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to manage the risks related to our loan servicing and collections obligations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Substantially all of our revenue is derived from a single loan product, and we are thus particularly susceptible to fluctuations in the unsecured personal loan market. The sales and onboarding process of new lending partners could take longer than expected, leading to fluctuations or variability in expected revenues and results of operations. We are continuing to introduce and develop new loan products and services, and if these products and services are not successful or we are unable to manage the related risks, our growth prospects, business, financial, condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We rely on strategic relationships with loan aggregators to attract applicants to our marketplace, and if we cannot maintain effective relationships with loan aggregators or successfully replace their services, our business could be adversely affected. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY Our business has been and will continue to be adversely affected by economic conditions and other factors that we cannot control. Uncertainty, volatility and negative trends in general economic conditions historically have created a difficult operating environment for our industry. Many factors, including factors that are beyond our control, have impacted and will continue to impact our business, financial condition and results of operations by affecting the supply of capital to our marketplace from our lending partners and institutional investors, the demand by borrowers for Upstart-powered loans, and borrowers ability and willingness to repay their loans. These factors include, but are not limited to, interest rates, inflation, personal savings rates, U.S. politics (including state and federal elections, changes in presidential and gubernatorial administrations and related impact to policy), fiscal and monetary policies, unemployment levels, disruptions in the banking sector, lower consumer confidence, reduced consumer discretionary spending, conditions in the housing market, immigration policies, gas prices, energy costs, government shutdowns, trade wars and delays in tax refunds, as well as events such as natural disasters, acts of war, geopolitical conflicts, terrorism, catastrophes and pandemics. If any of these factors negatively affect borrowers, lending partners or institutional investors, or if we are unable to mitigate the risks associated with them, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In recent years, the United States experienced historically high levels of inflation. In response, the government implemented policy interventions. The U.S. Federal Reserve raised interest rates eleven times in 2022 and 2023. While the goal was to curb inflation, these interventions may have had, and could continue to have, broad macroeconomic implications, including contributing to an economic downturn, higher unemployment rates or 26 Table of Contents disruptions to the banking sector. While the U.S. Federal Reserve lowered interest rates in the second half of 2024 in response to indications of lower inflation levels, the timing of additional interest rate cuts, if any, is uncertain. The current macroeconomic environment and resulting uncertainty and volatility have had, and could continue to have, several effects on our business and results of operations, including, among other things: a decrease in loan origination volume; a reduction in loan funding from lending partners and institutional investors; a reduction in liquidity in the capital markets; lower approval rates for, and acceptance of loan offers by, applicants; increased utilization of our balance sheet to purchase Upstart-powered loans; delays in the adoption of our AI lending marketplace by new lending partners; increased delinquencies and default rates for Upstart-powered loans; and reductions in workforce. The current macroeconomic environment has had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on our business by affecting the supply of capital to our marketplace from institutional investors and lending partners. For more information, see the risk factors titled If we are unable to maintain diverse and resilient loan funding to our marketplace from institutional investors, our growth prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected and If our existing lending partners cease or limit their participation in our marketplace or if we are unable to attract new lending partners to our marketplace, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. We offer consumer loans on our marketplace, and many consumers that come to our marketplace have poor, limited or no credit history. Such consumers have historically been, and may in the future be, disproportionately affected by adverse macroeconomic conditions. Inflation, higher interest rates, availability of government assistance programs, unemployment, bankruptcy, government interventions, such as stimulus measures, major medical expenses, divorce or death may affect borrowers ability or willingness to borrow or make payments on loans. Macroeconomic changes have in the past and may in the future negatively impact borrowers ability and willingness to borrow and make repayments. For more information, see the risk factors titled If we are unable to approve significant number of borrowers for loans through our marketplace, our growth prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. During an economic down cycle, there is a greater risk that borrowers will not make payments on loans. Also, borrowers may not prioritize repayment of unsecured personal loans over loans that are secured by necessities, for example, mortgages, home equity loans or auto loans. Higher interest rates often lead to higher payment obligations, which may reduce the ability of borrowers to remain current on their obligations. These factors may lead to increased delinquencies, defaults and bankruptcies declared by borrowers, resulting in more charge-offs and fewer recoveries, all of which have had, and could continue to have, a material adverse effect on the credit performance of loans facilitated on our marketplace and our business. For example, the vintages of core personal loans that originated in the first quarter of 2021 through the first quarter of 2024 are forecasted to underperform relative to the target returns set at the time of loan origination. When a borrower defaults on a loan, it increases our costs to service the loan. Because default rates have been higher than expected, it has negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, demand by our lending partners to originate loans, and institutional investors to fund loans, facilitated through our marketplace. Any sustained decline in applicant approvability or acceptance of loan offers or loan origination volume, or any increase in delinquencies or defaults by borrowers beyond our expectation, would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 27 Table of Contents If we are unable to maintain diverse and resilient loan funding to our marketplace from institutional investors or successfully manage risks associated with committed capital and other co-investment arrangements, our growth prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our business depends on sourcing and maintaining diverse and resilient loan funding from institutional investors to our marketplace. The institutional investors provide loan funding to our marketplace by purchasing whole loans, pass-through certificates and asset-backed securities. Out of the total principal of loan originations facilitated on our marketplace during the year ended December 31, 2024, 65% were purchased by institutional investors. The availability and capacity of loan funding from institutional investors depend on many factors that are outside of our control, such as economic and market conditions, interest rates, liquidity in the capital markets and regulatory requirements or restrictions, which are subject to change. While we have experienced funding constraints since 2022 due to the macroeconomic environment, we believe the market sentiment from institutional investors has started to improve and we have since increased loan funding capacity. We cannot be sure that the existing funding sources will continue to be available, or any new funding source will become available, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Decreased funding from institutional investors has negatively impacted our business in the past, and may negatively impact us in the future. Any sustained decline in investor demand for Upstart-powered loans or securities secured by such loans for any reason, including due to adverse economic conditions or due to any increase in delinquencies, defaults or losses beyond our expectation, may adversely affect our financial results. A significant portion of our loan funding from institutional investors comes from committed capital and other co-investment arrangements. These arrangements may include terms that provide downside risk protection, subject to certain limits and conditions. In particular, we have agreed to compensate certain investors, subject to a limit, if credit performance on the loans under these arrangements deviates from our initial expectations and, subject to certain conditions, if we are unable to sell the minimum required volume of loans to our committed capital providers. As such, if the loans do not perform as expected due to unexpected shifts in borrower behaviors, ability to pay or otherwise, if we have a decrease in borrower demand for Upstart-powered loans, or if our models expectation for credit performance is inaccurate for any reason, our financial results could be adversely impacted. As of December 31, 2024, our maximum exposure to losses under these committed capital and other co-investment arrangements was approximately $459.3 million. This amount has grown from $98.5 million as of December 31, 2023, as we have entered into more committed capital and other co-investment arrangements. As the amount of our maximum exposure to losses under these arrangements grows and may continue to grow in the future, risks associated with committed capital and other co-investment arrangements could have a greater impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Committed capital and other co-investment arrangements have negatively impacted our financial results through unfavorable fair value adjustments and may continue to do so in the future. We may also experience declines in revenue and transaction volume if existing committed capital or other capital arrangements do not provide funding on the agreed upon terms or we fail to secure additional committed capital or other capital arrangements in the future on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Moreover, the capital arrangements that we have recently entered into during a high interest rate environment, such as the committed capital and other co-investment arrangements, may become more costly if interest rates continue to fall and the terms of such arrangements remain in place. Despite our efforts, we may continue to experience funding constraints and cannot be certain if any measures we have taken, such as committed capital or other co-investment arrangements, or will take to address or mitigate the effects of funding constraints, will be sufficient or successful. In the event of funding constraints, we may not be able to maintain our current loan origination volume without incurring substantially higher funding costs, agreeing to terms that are not favorable to us or relying on our balance sheet to support funding, each of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot be certain about the level of investor demand for securitizations. Events of default or breaches of financial, performance or other covenants, or worse than expected performance of certain pools of loans underpinning our asset-backed securitizations, debt facilities or other structured and unstructured transactions, have limited in the past and could limit our access to funding from institutional investors. For example, the loans originated in 2021 through 2023 that were included in our asset-backed securitizations have underperformed relative 28 Table of Contents to their expected target returns at the time of origination, resulting in negative rating agency actions in several of our asset-based securitizations. If we are unable to continue to improve our AI models or if our AI models contain errors or are otherwise ineffective, our growth prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Our ability to attract potential borrowers, and thus increase loan originations on our marketplace, depends in large part on our ability to effectively evaluate the creditworthiness of borrowers and likelihood of default and, based on that evaluation, offer competitively priced loans. Our overall operating efficiency and margins further depend in part on our ability to maintain a high degree of automation in our application process and achieve incremental improvements in the degree of automation. If our AI models fail to adequately predict the creditworthiness of borrowers and the likelihood of default due to the design of our models or programming or any other errors or inaccuracies, and our AI models do not detect or account for such errors or inaccuracies, or any of the other components of our credit decisioning process fails, there could be higher than forecasted losses on Upstart-powered loans. Any of the foregoing could result in sub-optimally priced loans or incorrect approvals or denials of loans, any of which may lead to lower demand by borrowers and reduce loan originations and our revenue. Moreover, in addition to reduced borrower demand, higher than expected losses on Upstart-powered loans could further harm our ability to attract lending partners and/or capital to our marketplace. Our lending partners and institutional investors may decide to limit their funding or reduce the number of loans or types of loans they originate or fund if they experience higher than expected losses due to underperformance of the loans. The underperformance of Upstart-powered loans as compared to the expectations set by our AI models can have a negative impact on our financial results, as while subject to certain limits, we are obligated in certain arrangements to provide downside risk protection to our capital partners and compensate them for any deviation in expected credit performance of the loans sold in connection with the committed capital and other co-investment arrangements. It may also hinder our ability to increase the size of, or enter into new, debt facilities or other financing arrangements. Our AI models also target, optimize or predict other aspects of the lending process, such as borrower acquisition, fraud detection, default timing, loan stacking and prepayment timing. Our continued improvements to such models have allowed us to facilitate loans inexpensively and virtually instantly, with a high degree of consumer satisfaction while maintaining loan performance. However, such applications of our AI models may prove to be less predictive than we expect, or than they have been in the past, for a variety of reasons, including inaccurate assumptions or other errors made in constructing such models, incorrect interpretations of the results of such models and failure to update model assumptions and parameters in a timely manner. It is also possible that the instant approval process on our marketplace makes us a target for certain borrowers who intend to accumulate as much debt as quickly as possible without regard for the viability of repayment. Additionally, such models may not be able to effectively account for matters that are inherently difficult to predict and beyond our control, such as macroeconomic conditions, credit market volatility and interest rate fluctuations, which often involve complex interactions between a number of dependent and independent variables and factors. Material errors or inaccuracies in such AI models could lead us to make inaccurate or sub-optimal operational or strategic decisions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our AI models do not accurately reflect the impact of economic conditions on borrowers credit risk in a timely manner, the performance of Upstart-powered loans may be worse than anticipated and our AI models may be perceived as ineffective. The performance of loans facilitated through our marketplace is significantly dependent on the effectiveness of our proprietary AI models used to evaluate a borrowers credit profile and likelihood of default. Our AI models have not been extensively tested during different types of economic downturns or recessions. Even if credit decisions take into account macroeconomic conditions, there is no assurance that our AI models can accurately predict loan performance during periods of adverse economic conditions or quickly respond to changing economic conditions. If our AI models are unable to accurately reflect the credit risk of loans under such economic conditions, we, our lending partners and our institutional investors would experience greater than expected losses on such loans, which would harm our reputation and erode the trust we have built with our lending partners and 29 Table of Contents institutional investors. We have experienced and may continue to experience high delinquency rates and underperformance of loans originated using our AI models in recent periods. For example, the quarterly vintages of core personal loans that originated in the first quarter of 2021 through the first quarter of 2024 are forecasted to underperform relative to the target returns set at the time of loan origination. The fair value of the loans on our balance sheet has declined and may continue to decline. Our business, financial condition and results of operations can continue to be adversely affected if our AI models are not able to accurately and timely assess the impact of macroeconomic conditions on the performance and default rates of loans facilitated through our marketplace. If we are unable to approve a significant number of borrowers for loans through our marketplace, our growth prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. The vast majority of our revenue comes from platform and referral fees and servicing fees on loans facilitated through our marketplace. Growing our revenue from fees depends in significant part on our ability to increase the transaction volume of consumer loans on our marketplace. To serve more consumer demand for credit and increase transaction volume on our marketplace, we must have an adequate supply of capital from lending partners and institutional investors, we must drive sufficient demand from potential borrowers seeking loans, and the borrowers must satisfy the requirements for approval established by our models and our lending partners. While we continue to improve the accuracy of our AI models, which we believe is key to our long-term success, such improvements may not lead to more borrowers being approved on our platform. These improvements have led us in the past and may lead us in the future to reevaluate our credit decisioning process, including the risks associated with certain borrowers. Changes in borrower default patterns and increases in the numbers of borrowers who default have in the past and could in the future result in fewer borrowers being approved for loans on our platform. In addition, our lending partners' credit requirements and the target returns our institutional investors and lending partners demand in order to provide capital to our marketplace have, and could continue to, negatively impact our ability to extend loan offers with competitive terms or at all to certain borrowers on our marketplace. If we are not able to fill funding commitments by our institutional investors or lending partners, we risk jeopardizing our current or future supply of capital to our marketplace. In the current macroeconomic environment with elevated costs of borrowing and risks associated with consumer credit, the pool of qualified borrowers has become smaller, and fewer applicants have received or accepted loan offers on our marketplace than they have in the past. Approving more borrowers can also be limited as we have historically held the maximum annual percentage rate of Upstart-powered loans to 35.99% or less due to regulatory reasons. Moreover, loan terms have become less borrower-friendly in the current environment with higher interest rates, and we have experienced an overall decrease in borrower demand. These factors have and may continue to negatively affect transaction volume on our marketplace and therefore our revenue. If we are not able to maintain or increase transaction volume on our marketplace, or attract and retain qualified borrowers, our growth prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. If our existing lending partners cease or limit their participation in our marketplace or if we are unable to attract new lending partners to our marketplace, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our success depends in significant part on the participation of our lending partners in our marketplace. In the year ended December 31, 2024, 83% of our total revenue was generated from platform, referral and servicing fees that we receive from our lending partners. Our lending partners also provide loan funding to our marketplace by retaining a significant portion of the loans facilitated through our marketplace. Out of the total principal of loan originations facilitated on our marketplace during the year ended December 31, 2024, 25% were retained by our lending partners. If we are unable to keep existing lending partners or attract new lending partners to our marketplace, or if we are unable to maintain or increase the portion of loans retained by the lending partners, our financial performance could suffer. 30 Table of Contents Our lending partners may suspend, limit or cease their participation in our marketplace for a number of reasons. While lending partners loan funding to our marketplace has started to improve, we have experienced a reduction of loan originations by lending partners in the past due to disruptions in the banking sector and adverse macroeconomic conditions. If our lending partners suspend, limit or cease their operations or terminate their relationships with us, the number of loans facilitated through our marketplace will decrease and our revenue will be adversely affected. Moreover, new lending partners may find our sales and onboarding process to be long and unpredictable. If we are unable to timely onboard our lending partners, or if our lending partners are not willing to work with us to complete an onboarding process, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We enter into a separate agreement with each of our lending partners. Our agreements with our lending partners are nonexclusive and may contain minimum fee amounts. Our lending partners could decide to stop working with us, ask to modify their agreement terms in a cost prohibitive manner when their agreement is up for renewal or enter into exclusive or more favorable relationships with our competitors. In addition, federal or state regulators may require that they terminate or otherwise limit their business with us, or impose regulatory pressure limiting their ability to do business with us. See the risk factors titled Our business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations, many of which are evolving, and failure or perceived failure to comply with such laws and regulations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and The CFPB has sometimes taken expansive views of its authority to regulate consumer financial services, creating uncertainty as to how the agencys actions or the actions of any other agency could impact our business for more information. Moreover, we could in the future have disagreements or disputes with any of our lending partners, which could negatively impact or threaten our relationship with them. In our agreements with lending partners, we make certain representations and warranties and covenants concerning our compliance with specific policies of a lending partner, certain procedures and guidelines related to laws and regulations applicable to our lending partners, as well as the services to be provided by us. If those representations and warranties were not accurate when made or if we fail to perform a covenant, we may be liable for any resulting damages, including potentially any losses associated with impacted loans, and our reputation and ability to continue to attract new lending partners would be adversely affected. Additionally, our lending partners may engage in mergers, acquisitions or consolidations with each other, our competitors or with third parties, any of which could be disruptive to our existing and prospective relationships with our lending partners. If we fail to maintain or grow the number of lending partners, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We have a relatively limited operating history, which may result in increased risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties, and makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects. We were founded in 2012 and have been a publicly traded company for a limited number of years. Our limited operating history may make it difficult to make accurate predictions about our future performance. Assessing our business and future prospects may also be difficult because of the risks and difficulties we face. These risks and difficulties include our ability to: successfully mitigate any adverse effects of economic conditions such as high interest rates, inflation, unemployment levels, personal savings rates and other macroeconomic factors on our business; improve the effectiveness and predictiveness of our AI models, including successfully adjusting our proprietary AI models, products and services in a timely manner in response to changing macroeconomic conditions and fluctuations in the credit market; maintain and increase the volume of loans facilitated through our AI lending marketplace; successfully maintain diverse and resilient loan funding to our marketplace from institutional investors; attract new lending partners to our marketplace and maintain existing lending partnerships; successfully meet our borrower demand with competitive products and terms; offer competitive interest rates to borrowers on our marketplace, while enabling our lending partners and institutional investors to achieve an adequate return over their cost of funds; 31 Table of Contents successfully build our brand and protect our reputation from negative publicity; increase the effectiveness of our marketing strategies; continue to expand the number of potential borrowers; comply with and successfully adapt to complex and evolving regulatory environments; protect against increasingly sophisticated fraudulent borrowing and online theft; successfully compete with companies that are currently in, or may in the future enter, the business of providing online lending services to financial institutions or consumer financial services to borrowers; enter into new markets and introduce new products and services; effectively secure and maintain the confidentiality of the information received, accessed, stored, provided and used across our systems; successfully obtain and maintain corporate funding and liquidity to support growth and for general corporate purposes; attract, integrate and retain qualified employees; and effectively manage and expand the capabilities of our operations teams, outsourcing relationships and other business operations. If we are not able to timely and effectively address these risks and difficulties as well as those described elsewhere in this Risk Factors section, our business and results of operations may be harmed. If we are unable to manage the risks associated with the Upstart Macro Index (UMI), which we introduced in 2023 and which does not have a long history or proven track record, our credibility, reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. UMI is our effort to quantify the level of macroeconomic risks in terms of the losses or defaults within Upstart-powered unsecured personal loan portfolios, excluding small dollar loans. We introduced UMI in 2023 and it does not have a long history or track record. Since it is a relatively new initiative, UMI remains unproven and, therefore, may not perform as expected. We intend to continue our research and development efforts to improve UMI. In light of such efforts, we have revised our previously published UMI values, including to remove seasonal patterns, and may further change or revise the current or past UMI values in the future. Any significant changes or revisions could harm our reputation and credibility with our lending partners and institutional investors, which in turn could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the correlation between UMI and the level of macroeconomic risks in terms of losses or defaults within Upstart-powered unsecured personal loan portfolios may not be as significant or meaningful as we expect. If the correlation between UMI and the level of macroeconomic risks is misaligned or skewed in a way that is unacceptable to our lending partners or institutional investors, or UMI fails to accurately or adequately quantify the level of macroeconomic risks, this lack of a meaningful correlation may result in distrust or disregard of UMI. This outcome could adversely affect our reputation and credibility with our lending partners and institutional investors and thus, negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. UMI is based on our analysis of the losses within Upstart-powered unsecured personal loan portfolios, excluding small dollar loans, and is specific to our borrower base. Because the composition of our borrower base changes over time and UMI is an aggregate computed across all Upstart-powered unsecured personal loans, except small dollar loans, UMI may not be the best indicator of the level of macroeconomic risks for a specific subset of loans or borrower segments. UMI is not intended to measure the macroeconomic risks in terms of losses of loan portfolios or assets that are not Upstart-powered loans, including loans held by other segments of the U.S. population. It is not designed to measure the current state of the overall economy or to measure or predict future macroeconomic conditions, trends or risks. It is also not designed to measure or predict Upstarts future loan performance, results of operations or stock price. Investors, lending partners and analysts may improperly use or rely 32 Table of Contents on UMI for these or other unintended purposes, or otherwise misunderstand or misinterpret UMI. If UMI is misunderstood or misinterpreted in these ways, it could harm our reputation and credibility with our lending partners and institutional investors and impair our ability to retain and attract them to our lending marketplace. This could further reduce the number or types of loan products that our lending partners and institutional investors are willing to fund. Any failure to manage the foregoing risks could adversely affect our ability to maintain diverse and resilient loan funding to our marketplace, which in turn would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have incurred net losses, and we may not be able to achieve profitability in the future. For the year ended December 31, 2024, we incurred a net loss of $128.6 million. We have expended, and intend to continue to expend, significant funds to develop and improve our proprietary AI models, attract additional borrowers to our marketplace, enhance the features and overall user experience on our platform, expand loan product offerings and otherwise continue to grow our business, and we may not be able to increase our revenue enough to offset these significant expenditures. We have incurred, and expect to incur in the future, significant losses for a number of reasons, including the other risks described in this section, and unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications and delays, macroeconomic conditions and other unknown events. Any failure to increase our revenue sufficiently to keep pace with our investments and other expenses would prevent us from being profitable. If we are unable to successfully address these risks and challenges as we encounter them, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we are unable to manage risks associated with the loans on our balance sheet, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We have held more Upstart-powered loans on our balance sheet in recent years and may continue to do so in the future. We have used, and may continue to use, our balance sheet to support our research and development activities for new loan products and borrower segments. In addition to research and development activities, we have used and may continue to use our balance sheet to purchase Upstart-powered loans from lending partners to address fluctuations in supply and demand in our marketplace and periodically sell these loans to institutional investors prior to their maturity. Out of the total principal of loan originations facilitated on our marketplace during the year ended December 31, 2024, 10% were held on our balance sheet. As of December 31, 2024, we held $703.4 million of loans on our balance sheet, excluding loans held in consolidated securitization. We hold loans on our balance sheet at fair value and estimate fair value using a discounted cash flow methodology. An increase in the market interest rates reduces the fair value of loans held on our balance sheet by increasing the discount rate used to determine fair value under the discounted cash flow methodology. Currently, we are in a high interest rate environment. The high interest rates have negatively affected the fair value of loans held on our balance sheet and may continue to do so in the future. In addition, for these loans and any future loans to be held on our balance sheet, we bear the credit risk in the event of borrower default. Our exposure to rising borrower default rates and their volatility has increased, and may continue to increase, as we hold more Upstart-powered loans on our balance sheet. The R&D loans make up a substantial portion of the loans held on our balance sheet and are generally more risky and more likely to default than the core personal loans. At times, the default rates and charge-offs for these loans have been higher than expected for certain loan categories, and consequently, we had to make unfavorable fair value adjustments to the loans on our balance sheet. Unfavorable fair value adjustments have negatively impacted our revenue in the past, and if we experience higher than expected default rates or the loans otherwise fail to perform as expected, we would need to make unfavorable fair value adjustments in the future, which would negatively impact our revenue. It is also possible that we may recognize a loss if we sell the loans held on our balance sheet, such as the R&D loans, at an unfavorable price. Furthermore, a portion of our revenue is interest income derived from the loans held on our balance sheet, and if we increase the amount of loans held on our balance sheet, we become more dependent on interest income as a source of revenue and become more vulnerable to credit risk and borrower defaults associated with these loans. From a liquidity perspective, a growing amount of loans on our balance sheet increases our liquidity risk. We cannot be certain whether we will be able to sell loans currently on our balance sheet, or any future loans to be put on our balance sheet, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to do so, it is possible that our ability to 33 Table of Contents meet our operational needs and obligations may be disrupted. Moreover, the use of our balance sheet diverts financial resources from other uses, such as improving our products and services, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our revenue growth rate and financial performance in the past may not be indicative of future performance. We grew rapidly in the past, and our historical revenue growth rate and financial performance may not be indicative of our future performance. Our revenue for any previous quarterly or annual periods should not be relied upon as any indication of our revenue or revenue growth in the future. Our revenue may decline in the future for a number of reasons, which may include: adverse macroeconomic conditions, changing interest rates, slowing demand for or reduced funding through our lending marketplace, sales of loans held on our balance sheet at a loss, losses from our committed capital and co-investment arrangements with institutional capital partners, increasing competition, credit market volatility, increasing regulatory costs and challenges and our failure to capitalize on growth opportunities. We believe our growth was driven in large part by our AI models and our continued improvements to our AI models. Future incremental improvements to our AI models may not lead to the same level of growth as they did in the past. In addition, we believe our past growth was driven in part by our ability to rapidly streamline and automate the loan application and origination process on our platform. We expect the Percentage of Loans Fully Automated to level off and remain relatively stable in the long term. However, the expansion of loan offerings on our platform beyond unsecured personal loans, such as auto financing and home equity lines of credit, may cause fluctuations of such percentage from period to period depending on the loan offering mix. As a result of these factors, our revenue may further decline, and our financial performance may continue to be adversely affected. Our quarterly results are likely to fluctuate and as a result may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our quarterly results of operations, including our revenue, net income (loss) and other key metrics, are likely to vary significantly in the future, and period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful. Accordingly, the results for any one quarter are not necessarily an accurate indication of future performance. Our quarterly financial results may fluctuate due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Factors that may cause fluctuations in our quarterly financial results include but are not limited to: general economic conditions, including economic slowdowns, recessions, interest rate changes, inflation, tightening of credit markets and disruptions in the banking sector; our cost of borrowing money and access to loan funding sources; our ability to improve the effectiveness and predictiveness of our AI models, including improvements that negatively impact transaction volume, such as lower approval rates; our ability to attract new lending partners and institutional investors to our marketplace; our ability to maintain relationships with existing lending partners and institutional investors; our ability to maintain or increase loan volumes, and improve loan mix and the channels through which the loans, lending partners and loan funding are sourced; our ability to maintain effective relationships with loan aggregators from which prospective borrowers access our website; our ability to identify and prevent fraudulent activity and the impact of fraud prevention measures; changes in the fair value of assets and liabilities on our balance sheet; the timing and success of new products and services; the effectiveness of our direct marketing and other marketing channels; 34 Table of Contents the amount and timing of operating expenses related to maintaining and expanding our business, operations and infrastructure, including acquiring new and maintaining existing lending partners and institutional investors and attracting borrowers to our marketplace; the number and extent of prepayments of loans facilitated on our platform; the availability and integrity of our network, products and services or infrastructure, or actual or perceived security breaches or incidents experienced by us or third parties that we rely on to operate our business; our involvement in litigation or regulatory enforcement efforts (or the threat thereof) or those that impact our industry generally; the length of the onboarding process related to acquisitions of new lending partners; changes in laws and regulations, or interpretations of such laws and regulations, that impact our business; and changes in the competitive dynamics of our industry, including consolidation among competitors or the development of competitive products by larger well-funded incumbents. In addition, we typically experience seasonality in the demand for Upstart-powered loans, which is generally lower in the first quarter. This seasonal slowdown is primarily attributable to high loan demand around the holidays in the fourth quarter and the general increase in borrowers available cash flows in the first quarter, including cash received from tax refunds, which temporarily reduces borrowing needs. Such seasonality and other fluctuations in our quarterly results may also adversely affect and, increase the volatility of, the trading price of our common stock. Our loan funding arrangements with institutional investors, securitizations and warehouse credit facilities expose us to certain risks, and if we fail to successfully manage such risks, it may result in the reduced supply of loan funding capital or require us to seek more costly or less efficient financing for our marketplace. We have facilitated securitizations, and may in the future facilitate additional securitizations, of Upstart-powered loans to allow our institutional investors, certain lending partners and/or ourselves to liquidate or finance such loans through the asset-backed securities markets or through other capital markets products. In asset-backed securities transactions, we sell and convey pools of loans to a special purpose entity, or SPE. We likewise fund certain loans on our balance sheet by selling loans to warehouse trust SPEs and drawing on the associated warehouse credit facilities. Each securitization SPE issues notes and/or certificates pursuant to the terms of indentures and trust agreements. In the case of the warehouse credit facilities, the warehouse trust SPE borrows money from banks pursuant to credit and security agreements. The securities issued by the SPEs in asset-backed securitization transactions and the lines of credit borrowed by the warehouse SPEs are each secured by the pool of loans owned by the applicable SPE. We, our institutional investors who have purchased whole loans or pass-through certificates, and/or our lending partners contribute loans to the SPE and in exchange, receive cash and/or securities representing debt and/or equity interests in such SPE. When we are the sole sponsor of securitizations, we are required under Regulation RR to retain at least five percent of the credit risk in such transactions for a specific period of time, depending on the type of asset that is securitized. We have in the past and may choose in the future to retain additional securities, such as notes or certificates, issued in asset-backed securitization transactions we sponsor or facilitate. The certificates represent residual equity interests in the SPEs and are subordinated to the notes and thus are exposed to greater credit risk. In 2023 and 2024, we acted as a sole retaining sponsor to asset-backed securitizations and, in one instance, retained not only the securities required for risk retention purposes under Regulation RR, but also additional residual equity interests, exposing us to greater credit risk. The securities we retain may lose value, including becoming worthless. In the future, we may retain securities issued as part of our securitizations beyond risk retention requirements again. In addition, other matters, such as capital and leverage requirements applicable to banks and other regulated financial institutions holding asset-backed securities or increasing competition from other issuers of asset-backed securities, could negatively impact our business by decreasing institutional investor demand for securities issued through our securitization transactions. In addition, compliance with certain regulatory requirements, including the 35 Table of Contents Dodd-Frank Act, the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or the Investment Company Act, the so-called Volcker Rule, and states licensing requirement changes to include SPEs, may affect the type of securitizations that we are able to complete. If it is not possible or economical for us to securitize loans in the future or for us to serve as risk retention holder in securitizations for the benefit of our investors who have purchased whole loans or pass-through certificates and/or our lending partners, we may need to seek alternative financing to provide loan funding to our marketplace and to meet our existing debt obligations. Such funding may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If the cost of such loan funding mechanisms were to be higher than that of our securitizations it would negatively impact our results of operations. If we are unable to access such financing, our ability to originate loans and our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity may be materially adversely affected. The servicing fees generated by our loan servicing activities for the loans sold to institutional investors and contributed to asset-based securitizations and pass-through certificate transactions also represent a material portion of our earnings. There is no assurance that our institutional investors will continue to purchase loans or securities (either through whole loan sales, asset-backed securities, pass-through certificate issuances or other direct or indirect purchase arrangements) or that they will continue to purchase loans in transactions that generate the same spreads and/or fees that we have historically obtained. During the year ended December 31, 2024, we sold loans that had been originated in an earlier, lower interest rate environment. We recognized losses on these sales which reduced our revenue. As we purchase and hold more loans on our balance sheet, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, including further reductions in revenue. Factors that may affect demand by institutional investors for Upstart-powered loans include: competition in the whole loan sales markets where we compete with loan originators who can sell either larger loan portfolios or loans that have characteristics, pricing and terms that may be perceived to be more desirable to certain institutional investors than those offered in Upstart-powered loans that comprise our whole loan sales; competition in the securitization markets where we compete with loan originators and other issuers who can securitize or sell pools of loans (which such pools may include Upstart-powered loans, on a commingled basis or otherwise) with characteristics, pricing and terms that may be perceived to be more desirable to certain institutional investors than those offered in Upstart-powered loans contributed to asset-based securitization transactions that we facilitate; the extent to which servicing fees and other expenses may reduce overall net return on purchased pools of loans; the actual or perceived credit performance of loan products offered through our marketplace; economic conditions such as high interest rates, inflation, economic volatility and other macroeconomic factors; risk appetite of our institutional investors; the loan grade and term mix of the portfolios of loans offered for sale; institutional investors sector and company investment diversification requirements and strategies; higher yielding investment opportunities at a risk profile deemed similar to our sold loan portfolios; borrower prepayment behavior within the underlying pools; regulatory or investment practices related to maintaining net asset value, mark-to-market and similar metrics surrounding pools of purchased loans; and the ability of our institutional investors to access funding and liquidity channels, including warehouse financing and securitization markets, on terms they find acceptable to deliver an appropriate return net of funding costs, as well as general economic conditions and market trends, such as increasing interest rates, that affect the appetite for loan financing investments. 36 Table of Contents In connection with our committed capital and other co-investment arrangements, we have agreed to compensate our loan buyers/co-investors, subject to a limit, if credit performance on the loans deviates from expectations. As of December 31, 2024, our maximum exposure to losses under these committed capital and other co-investment arrangements was approximately $459.3 million. See Note 4. Beneficial Interests for more information. Committed capital and other co-investment arrangements could negatively impact our financial results. We may also experience declines in revenue and loan volume if existing committed capital or other co-investment arrangements do not provide funding on the agreed upon terms or we fail to secure additional committed capital or other capital arrangements on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We are also subject to risk that arises from our derivative instruments, beneficial interests, warehouse facilities, and third-party custodians. These activities generally involve an exchange of obligations with unaffiliated lenders or other individuals or entities, referred to in such transactions as counterparties. If a counterparty were to default or otherwise fail to perform, we could potentially be exposed to loss if such counterparty were unable to meet its obligations to us, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our top three lending partners account for a significant portion of loan originations on our marketplace and our revenue. Our top three lending partners originate a significant portion of loans on our marketplace. In the year ended December 31, 2024, our top three lending partners collectively originated 82% of the Transaction Volume, Number of Loans and accounted for 63% of our total revenue. There are no minimum commitments for our lending partners to originate any volume of loans under our agreements. If our top three lending partners were to suspend, limit or cease their operations or otherwise terminate their relationship with us, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2024, we had more than 100 lending partners participating on our marketplace, and we continue to expand our lending partnerships to new participants. If we are unable to continue to increase the participation by other lending partners on our marketplace, we will continue to be reliant on a small number of lending partners for a significant portion of loan originations and revenue, which could harm our business. Our reputation and brand are important to our success, and if we are unable to continue developing our reputation and brand, our ability to retain existing and attract new lending partners, our ability to attract borrowers to our marketplace, our ability to maintain diverse and resilient loan funding and our ability to maintain and improve our relationship with regulators of our industry could be adversely affected. We believe maintaining a strong brand and trustworthy reputation is critical to our success and our ability to attract borrowers to our marketplace, attract new lending partners, maintain diverse and resilient loan funding and sustain good relations with regulators. Factors that affect our brand and reputation include: perceptions of AI, our industry and our company, including the quality and reliability of our AI lending marketplace; the accuracy of our AI models; characterizations of our company due to our novel business model; perceptions regarding the application of AI to consumer lending specifically and that algorithmic-based lending is inherently biased; perceptions of rate exportation and the bank partnership model; the reputation of the vehicle dealerships with which we partner; loan funding to our marketplace; changes to the Upstart marketplace; our ability to effectively manage and resolve borrower complaints; collection practices; privacy and data security practices; litigation, such as class action and shareholder derivative lawsuits described in Legal section under Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies; regulatory activity; and the overall user experience of our marketplace. Negative publicity or negative public perception of these factors, even if inaccurate, could adversely affect our brand and reputation. For example, consumer advocacy groups, state legislatures, politicians and certain government and media reports have advocated governmental action to prohibit or severely restrict consumer loan arrangements where banks contract with a third-party platform such as ours to provide origination assistance services to bank customers. Such criticism has frequently been levied in the context of high-interest payday loans, although other entities operating programs through which loans similar to Upstart-powered loans are originated have also faced criticism. In addition, some state legislatures are now challenging the right of state-chartered banks to export their home-state 37 Table of Contents rates to other states by proposing, threatening to propose, or passing laws that opt out of the federal Depository Institution Deregulation Monetary Control Act, or DIDMCA. Opting out purportedly prevents out-of-state, state-chartered banks from exporting the rates from their home state for loans made to residents of the state that opted out. Iowa opted out of DIDMCA in the 1980s and in 2023, Colorado passed a law to opt out. The Colorado law is currently subject to an injunction that prevents enforcement, pending outcome of litigation regarding the effectiveness of such opt out. The high-interest loans that have been subject to more frequent criticism and challenge are fundamentally different from Upstart-powered consumer loans in many ways, including that Upstart-powered loans typically have lower interest rates and longer terms, and are not refinanced. In particular, interest rates of Upstart-powered consumer loans have always been and are currently less than 36% APR, as compared to the triple-digit interest rates of many payday or small dollar loans that have been subject to such criticism. However, states that are addressing their marketplace lending and rate exportation concerns through legislation may impact our marketplace if the state rate limit is below 36%. Where that happens, our state-chartered lending partners may need to scale back lending on our marketplace to comply with state laws or may terminate their participation in our marketplace, leading to a reduction in origination volume. These challenges to the marketplace lending model could also negatively impact demand for Upstart-powered loans, our ability to attract new lending partners, our ability to attract loan funding to our marketplace or reduce the number of potential borrowers to our marketplace. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Any negative publicity or public perception of Upstart-powered loans or other similar consumer loans or the consumer lending services we provide may also result in us being subject to more restrictive laws and regulations and potential investigations and enforcement actions. For example, some unfair or deceptive practices by vehicle dealerships can be attributed to us as a purchaser of retail installment contracts under the FTC Holder Rule, which allows a vehicle purchaser to bring any claim it has against the dealership against the current holder of the retail installment contract. Borrowers may complain about our data sharing practices, even though such practices are described in our privacy policy and comply with applicable laws and regulations. In addition, regulators may decide they are no longer supportive of our AI lending marketplace if there is enough negative perception surrounding the use of AI or the bank partnership model. We may also become subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, or other challenges such as government enforcement or arbitration, against our lending partners or us for loans originated by our lending partners on our marketplace, loans we service or have serviced, loans we hold for sale or investment on our balance sheet, or retail installment contracts we have purchased. If there are changes in the laws or in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws affecting consumer loans similar to those offered on our marketplace, or our marketing and servicing of such loans, or if we become subject to such lawsuits, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. AI and related technologies are subject to public debate and heightened regulatory scrutiny. Although policy prerogatives of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) may change with the recent change in the U.S. presidential administration, the CFPB previously indicated that AI was a regulatory hot topic for the agency, including the use of complex credit scoring models as part of the loan underwriting process. The agency previously took several steps to increase regulatory scrutiny of financial technology companies that rely on AI. In April 2023, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), the Department of Justice (DOJ), the CFPB, and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) released a joint statement on AI demonstrating their interest in monitoring the development and use of automated systems and enforcement of their respective laws and regulations. The Congressional Research Service released a report on April 3, 2024 on the use of AI and machine learning in financial services, noting that financial industry policymakers face competing pressures of providing beneficial technology and avoiding any consumer harm from such technology. In addition, recently, the SEC cautioned companies against AI washing and took enforcement actions against companies for their claims about the use of AI in their products and services. In June 2024, the Treasury Department also issued a request for information seeking public comments on the use of AI in the financial services sector and the opportunities and risks presented by developments and applications of AI within the sector. In August 2024, the CFPB also responded to a Department of Treasury Request For Information regarding the use of AI in financial services, reinforcing their expectation that companies using emerging technologies including AI comply with existing consumer protection laws and regulations. States have also started to regulate the use of AI, with Colorado passing the first comprehensive AI bill in June 2024. That same month, Colorado passed its AI Act, creating duties for developers of AI and persons using AI to use reasonable care to protect consumers from any known or reasonably foreseeable risks of algorithmic discrimination arising from the use of "high-risk AI systems. California attempted to pass a 38 Table of Contents similar law, but was not successful. Other states have begun proposing and passing legislation addressing the use of AI and automated decision making, and we expect the number of states with similar legislation to grow. Any negative publicity or negative public perception of AI could negatively impact demand for our AI lending marketplace, hinder our ability to attract new lending partners or slow the rate at which lending partners adopt our AI lending marketplace. From time to time, certain advocacy groups have made claims that unlawful or unethical discriminatory effects may result from the use of AI technology by various companies, including ours. Such claims, whether or not accurate, and whether or not concerning us or our AI lending marketplace, may harm our ability to attract prospective borrowers to our marketplace, retain existing and attract new lending partners and achieve regulatory acceptance of our business. In 2020, we entered into an agreement with the NAACP Legal Defense Education Fund (the LDF), and the Student Borrower Protection Center (the SBPC), to participate in fair lending reviews of our AI underwriting models by an independent third-party firm, Relman Colfax LLC (Relman). The fair lending testing was designed to determine if our AI underwriting models have caused or resulted in a disparate impact on any protected class, and if so, whether there are any alternative, less discriminatory practices that could be employed without sacrificing the models predictiveness. In March 2024, following a number of quantitative assessments and prior reports, Relman published a final report that summarized developments during the monitorship as well as industry fair lending recommendations. The Relman final report marked the conclusion of our agreement with the LDF and the SBPC and the fair lending reviews by Relman. If the conclusion of the Relman monitorship or any of the final reports findings are viewed negatively for any reason, our brand and reputation and the overall market acceptance of, and trust in, our AI lending marketplace could suffer, and we could be subject to increased regulatory and litigation risk. In addition, the publication of information arising from our agreement with the LDF and the SBPC, including the reports published by Relman, could lead to additional regulatory scrutiny for us or our lending partners. We have been subject to other governmental inquiries on this topic. See the risk factor titled We have been in the past and may in the future be subject to federal and state regulatory inquiries regarding our business for more information. The CFPB issued a final rule in June 2024 that will require us and other non-bank entities to report any public regulatory or court orders related to violations of consumer protection laws in a registry that will be available to the public, which can impact our public perception and reputation. Negative public perception, actions by advocacy groups or legislative and regulatory interest groups could lead to lobbying for and enactment of more restrictive laws and regulations that impact the use of AI technology in general, AI technology as applied to lending operations generally or as used in our applications more specifically. Any of the foregoing could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Harm to our reputation can also arise from many other sources, including inaccurate or unfavorable statements made by securities analysts or others, failure by us or our lending partners to meet minimum standards of service and quality, loan underperformance, inadequate protection of borrower information and compliance failures and claims, and employee or former employee misconduct, misconduct by outsourced service providers or other counterparties, as further described below. If we are unable to protect our reputation, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Our business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations, many of which are evolving, and failure or perceived failure to comply with such laws and regulations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to numerous laws and regulations at a federal, state and local level, that are aimed at providing consumer protections in the financial services industry. This body of laws and regulations applicable to our business is complex, evolving and subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to the lack of specificity regarding the application of AI and related technologies to the already highly regulated consumer lending industry or to changing sentiments about the bank partnership model. As a result, the application of such laws and regulations in practice may change or develop over time as more products are offered on our marketplace, and through judicial decisions or as new guidance or interpretations are provided by regulatory and governing bodies, such as federal, state and local administrative agencies. 39 Table of Contents New laws and regulations and changes to existing laws and regulations continue to be adopted, implemented and interpreted in response to our industry and the emergence of AI and related technologies. Recent financial, political and other events, including disruptions in the banking sector, may increase the level of regulatory scrutiny on financial technology companies. As we expand our business into new markets, introduce new financial products and services, and as we continue to improve and evolve our AI models, additional regulatory requirements will apply. In some cases, state licenses are required based on our business operations and regulatory bodies could reject our applications for licenses or deny renewals, delay or impede our ability to operate, charge us fees or levy fines or penalties, commence investigations or inquiries into our business practices, or otherwise disrupt our ability to operate our AI lending marketplace, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also face additional regulatory scrutiny or supervision at a federal level. For example, in February 2024 and again in December 2024, the CFPB exercised a previously dormant provision of Dodd Frank to establish supervisory authority over non-bank entities based on its belief such entities posed risk to consumers. If the CFPB decides to subject us to its supervisory process, it could significantly increase the level of regulatory scrutiny of our business practices. Federal and state regulators have also focused on eliminating or regulating junk fees, which are often not well defined. The CFPB has identified the fees associated with the sale of ancillary products in connection with financing the purchase of an auto as having the potential to be unfair or deceptive. More recently, the FTC finalized a rule on junk fees and narrowed the scope of the industries covered to exclude financial services. However, the increased focus on fees in the financial services space by federal and state regulators will likely continue. Should any of the fees charged to borrowers on loans obtained through our marketplace be deemed unfair or deceptive, such fees may be subject to refund or deemed uncollectable. The CFPB has the ability to regulate and investigate our business activity and has increased their activity and scrutiny in the financial services industry in recent years. The CFPB has issued several rules, interpretive statements and guidance documents that could impact our business practices including, but not limited to, a September 2023 circular on compliance obligations under the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA) for companies that rely on complex algorithms when making credit decisions, a June 2023 rule requiring registration of nonbank entities that receive a final order or judgment, and a circular that criticized the use of boilerplate language in consumer agreements where such language would be unlawful if enforced against the particular consumer agreeing to the contract. It has also issued several supervisory highlights focusing on various aspects of consumer lending, such as credit reporting, servicing and repossession activities in the auto lending space. The CFPB previously issued an interpretive rule expanding states authority to enforce requirements of federal consumer financial laws. In October 2024 the CFPB finalized its Opening Banking Rule to provide consumers greater rights over their personal financial data. In December 2024, the CFPB proposed a rule that makes significant revisions to Regulation V, which implements the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) and imposes new obligations and limitations on entities that collect, sell or share consumer information with third parties. However, in January 2025, the new U.S. presidential administration issued an executive order to halt all activity on the CFPBs pending and proposed rules, including the proposed changes to Regulation V. Due to the changing nature of the regulatory environment and uncertainty about the priorities and direction of the CFPB under the new U.S. presidential administration, we cannot be certain how the regulatory environment may impact our business. State regulators have also increased the level of regulatory scrutiny on financial technology companies and the bank partnership model. Massachusetts recently used its unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices (UDAAP) law to find that a fintech company that partnered with a federally insured, state-chartered bank to offer loans in the state was the true lender of the loans, and required the fintech company to permanently cease all business in Massachusetts. A recent alert from the Ohio banking regulator announced a change in the regulators opinion that the small loan license is now required for fintech companies to broker loans to their bank partners. Increased scrutiny of bank partnership arrangements continues, as states codify laws to determine who is the true lender for certain loans with the goal of regulating either the non-bank partner or limiting the rate that can be charged and/or collected. Moreover, the OCC, FDIC, and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued joint guidance indicating they intend to use their supervisory authority through examinations to review bank third-party relationships with financial technology companies to identify business practices that could pose a risk of potential consumer harm. Should the agencies review our program and identify any such risks or issue consent 40 Table of Contents orders against any of our lending partners, it could impact the viability of the bank partnership model or require additional actions by us and the lending partner to mitigate risks identified. While we have been proactively working with the federal government and state regulatory bodies to ensure that our AI lending marketplace and other services are in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we can provide no assurance that we will not be subject to any regulatory actions. For example, the CFPB issued Upstart the no-action letters, which provided that the CFPB, after a detailed review of Upstarts fair lending program, did not recommend any supervisory or enforcement action against Upstart for a violation of the ECOA. However, in June 2022, at our request, the no-action letter was terminated so that we can keep our models accurate and updated during a period of significant economic change. As a result, we can provide no assurance that the CFPB or any other federal or state regulator will not take supervisory or enforcement action against us in the future. We have been subject to governmental inquiries as well. See the risk factor titled We have been in the past and may in the future be subject to federal and state regulatory inquiries regarding our business for more information. Any government investigations or inquiries, whether or not accurate or warranted, or whether concerning us or one of our competitors, could negatively affect our brand and reputation and the overall market acceptance of and trust in our AI lending marketplace. Any of the foregoing could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to manage the risks related to our loan servicing and collections obligations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our success depends in part on our loan servicing and collection efforts. In the year ended December 31, 2024, 21% of our revenue from fees, net was generated from loan servicing fees. The vast majority of Upstart-powered loans are not secured by any collateral, and none are guaranteed or insured by any third party or backed by any governmental authority. As a result, we are limited in our ability to collect on such loans on behalf of our lending partners and institutional investors if a borrower is unwilling or unable to repay them. Where the loan is secured by an automobile, for our auto product, or home, for our HELOC product, we could still be limited in our ability to collect on the loan if we cannot secure the automobile or home. The ability to collect on the loans is largely dependent on the borrowers continuing financial stability, and consequently, collections can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, unemployment, divorce, death, illness, bankruptcy or the economic or social factors beyond personal circumstances of a borrower. In addition, the application of various federal and state laws, including federal and state bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount that can be recovered on these loans. It is possible that a higher percentage of consumers will seek protection under bankruptcy or debtor relief laws as a result of the current inflationary environment, the possibility of a recession and market volatility. Federal, state, or other restrictions could impair our ability to collect amounts owed and due on the loans facilitated through our marketplace, reduce income received from the loans facilitated through our marketplace, or negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We began conducting first-party collection activities for our lending partners in the fourth quarter of 2022 for loans facilitated through our marketplace. We do not have extensive experience conducting first-party or in-house collection activities, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to effectively manage risks associated with such activities. In addition to first-party collection activities, we partner with third-parties, including collection agencies, to collect on loans we service for our lending partners. In late 2024, we partnered with a third party to begin, for the first time, pursuing litigation as a strategy to collect from certain delinquent borrowers who demonstrate an ability but not a willingness to repay. If Upstart or the third-parties with whom we work on collections do not perform as expected or if we or these third parties act unprofessionally or otherwise cause harm to borrowers of Upstart-powered loans, our brand and reputation could be harmed and our ability to attract potential borrowers to our marketplace could be negatively impacted. For example, during periods of increased delinquencies caused by economic downturns or otherwise, it is important that we and collection agencies we use are proactive and consistent in contacting a borrower to bring a delinquent balance current and ultimately avoid the loan becoming charged off. If we or the third parties we work with are unable to maintain a high quality of service, or fulfill the servicing and collection obligations due to resource constraints, it could result in increased delinquencies and charge-offs on the loans, which could decrease fees payable to us, cause our lending partners to decrease their 41 Table of Contents demand for Upstart-powered loans, erode trust in our lending marketplace or increase the costs of loan funding for our marketplace. If we fail to successfully address any of the foregoing risks associated with our collection activities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We are the loan servicer for most loans facilitated through our marketplace, including the loans that are sold as part of whole loan sales, contributed to asset-backed securitizations and pass-through certificate transactions, and pledged in connection with warehouse credit facilities. Loan servicing is a highly manual process and an intensely regulated activity. Errors in our servicing activities, including payment collection and charge-off processes, or failures to comply with our servicing obligations, have in the past and could in the future affect our internal and external reporting of the loans that we service, adversely affect our business and reputation and expose us to liability to borrowers, lending partners or institutional investors. In addition, we charge our loan holders a fixed percentage servicing fee based on the outstanding balance of loans serviced. If we fail to efficiently service or collect on such loans and the costs incurred exceed the servicing fee charged, our results of operations would be adversely affected. Moreover, the laws and regulations governing these activities, including licensing obligations and requirements, are subject to change. For institutional investors that are statutory trusts, there is now additional risk based on a court decision in the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, where the CFPB recently obtained a favorable decision that it has enforcement authority over these trusts when the trusts engage in providing financial products or services, such as using third parties to collect on delinquent debts. Overall, if we are unable to comply with such laws and regulations governing servicing activities, we could lose one or more of our licenses or authorizations, become subject to greater scrutiny by regulatory agencies or become subject to sanctions or litigation, which may have an adverse effect on our ability to perform our servicing obligations or make our marketplace available to borrowers in particular states. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. While auto loans issued through our lending marketplace or retail installment contracts we purchase from automobile dealerships are secured by collateral, auto loans are inherently risky, as they are secured by assets that may be difficult to locate and can depreciate rapidly. We generally begin the repossession process for auto loans that become 60 days past due. We have engaged a third-party auto repossession vendor to handle all repossession activity. Following a repossession, if a borrower fails to redeem their vehicle or reinstate their loan agreement, whichever is required by law, the repossessed vehicle is sold at an auction and the proceeds are applied to the unpaid balance of the loan and related expenses. If the proceeds do not cover the unpaid balance of the loan and any related expenses permitted to be charged, and we are unable to recover the deficiency balance from the borrower, where permitted, the deficiency would be charged-off. Further, if a vehicle cannot be located, repossession and sale of the vehicle would not be possible and the outstanding loan balance may not be recovered. A significant number of delinquencies and charge-offs could decrease fees collectable by us, cause our lending partners to reduce loan originations, erode trust in our lending marketplace and lead to an increase in the costs of loan funding for our marketplace. Additionally, if such repossession vendors do not perform consistent with agreements entered into with us, or if vendors act unprofessionally or otherwise cause harm to borrowers of Upstart-powered loans, our brand and reputation could be harmed and our ability to attract potential borrowers to our marketplace could be negatively impacted. We may also become subject to regulatory scrutiny and potential litigation based on the conduct of our repossession vendors. Substantially all of our revenue is derived from a single loan product, and we are thus particularly susceptible to fluctuations in the unsecured personal loan market. The vast majority of loan originations currently facilitated through our marketplace are unsecured personal loans. While the market for unsecured personal loans has grown rapidly in recent years, it is unclear to what extent such market will continue to grow, if at all. A wide variety of factors could impact the market for unsecured personal loans, including macroeconomic conditions, competition, regulatory developments and other developments in the credit market. Our success will depend in part on the continued growth of the unsecured personal loan market, and if such market does not grow or grows more slowly than we expect, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 42 Table of Contents In order to preserve and expand our relationships with lending partners and institutional investors, it may become important for us to be able to offer a wider variety of products than we currently provide. We are also susceptible to competitors that may intentionally underprice their loan products, even if such pricing practices lead to losses. Such practices by competitors would negatively affect the overall demand for loans facilitated through our marketplace. Further, because personal loans are unsecured, there is a risk that borrowers will not prioritize repayment of such loans, particularly in any economic down-cycle. To the extent borrowers have or incur other indebtedness that is secured, such as a mortgage, a home equity line of credit or an auto loan, borrowers may choose to repay those obligations before repaying their unsecured Upstart-powered personal loans. In addition, borrowers may not view Upstart-powered loans, originated through an online lending marketplace, as having the same significance as other credit obligations arising under more traditional circumstances, such as loans directly from banks or other commercial financial institutions. Any of the foregoing could lead to higher default rates and decreased demand by our lending partners and institutional investors to fund loans facilitated through our marketplace, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also more susceptible to the risks of changing and increased regulations and other legal and regulatory actions targeted towards the unsecured personal loan market. If we are unable to manage the risks associated with the unsecured personal loan product, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The sales and onboarding process of new lending partners could take longer than expected, leading to fluctuations or variability in expected revenues and results of operations. Our sales and onboarding process with new lending partners can be long, vary widely and generally takes approximately two to twelve months. As a result, revenues and results of operations may vary significantly from period to period. Prospective lending partners are often cautious in making decisions to implement our platform and related services because of the risk management alignment and regulatory uncertainties related to their use of our AI models, including their oversight, model governance and fair lending compliance obligations associated with using such models. In addition, prospective lending partners undertake an extensive diligence review of our platform, compliance and servicing activities before choosing to partner with us. Further, the implementation of our AI models often involve shifts by the lending partner to a new software platform or changes in their operational procedures, which may involve significant time and expense to implement. Delays in onboarding new lending partners can also arise while prospective lending partners complete their internal procedures to approve expenditures and test and accept our applications. Consequently, we face difficulty predicting the quarter in which new lending partners will begin using our platform and the volume of fees we will receive, which can lead to fluctuations in our revenues and results of operations. We are continuing to introduce and develop new loan products and services offerings, and if these products are not successful or we are unable to manage the related risks, our growth prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We have introduced auto loan, small dollar loan, and home equity lines of credit products and are continuing to invest in developing these products and other new loan products and service offerings. New initiatives are inherently risky, as each involves unproven business strategies, new regulatory requirements and new financial products and services with which we, and in some cases our lending partners, have limited or no prior development or operating experience. We cannot be sure that we will be able to develop, commercially market and achieve market acceptance of any new products and services. In addition, our investment of resources to develop new products and services may either be insufficient or result in expenses that are excessive in light of revenue actually derived from these new products and services. It is also possible that such investment of resources may need to be delayed or deferred, as was the case with respect to the small business loan product when we decided to suspend its development in January 43 Table of Contents 2023 due to the adverse macroeconomic conditions affecting our business at that time. We may also have difficulty with securing adequate loan funding, either from lending partners or from institutional investors, for new loan products and services, and if we are unable to do so, our ability to develop and grow these new offerings and services will be impaired. If the profile of borrowers using any new products and services is different from that of those currently served by the existing loan products offered through our marketplace, our AI models may not be able to accurately evaluate the credit risk of such borrowers, and we may not be able to obtain loan funding for new products and services on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Moreover, it is possible that a new product in its development stage has a higher level of delinquencies or defaults than a more established product as our AI models calibrate to a potentially different set of data. Failure to accurately predict demand or growth with respect to our new products and services could have an adverse impact on our reputation and business, and there is always risk that new products and services will be unprofitable, will increase our costs, decrease operating margins or take longer than anticipated to achieve target margins. In addition, any new products or services may raise new and potentially complex regulatory compliance obligations, which would increase our costs and may cause us to change our business in unexpected ways. Further, our development efforts with respect to these initiatives could distract management from current operations and will divert capital and other resources from our existing business. If we are unable to effectively manage the foregoing risks, our growth prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Misconduct and errors by our employees, former employees, vendors, or service providers could harm our reputation and subject us to significant legal liability. We operate in an industry in which integrity and the confidence of our borrowers and lending partners is of critical importance. Our business depends on our employees, vendors, and service providers to process a large number of increasingly complex transactions, including transactions that involve significant dollar amounts and loan transactions that involve the use and disclosure of sensitive personal and business information. We are thus exposed to the risk of misconduct and errors by our employees, vendors, and other service providers that could adversely affect our business, including employees, vendors, or service providers taking, converting, or misusing funds, documents, or data, or failing to follow applicable laws and regulations or our internal policies or protocol when interacting with consumers and borrowers. It is not always possible to identify and deter misconduct or errors by employees, vendors, or service providers, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses. There have been numerous highly-publicized cases of fraud and other misconduct by financial services industry employees. We have experienced employee misconduct and may continue to do so in the future. Depending on the severity, any illegal, improper, or suspicious activity or other misconduct by our employees, vendors or service providers could result in serious harm to our reputation, financial condition, relationships with lending partners and borrowers, and our ability to attract new lending partners or borrowers. We could also be subject to civil or criminal liability as a result of actions by our employees, vendors or service providers. Any of these occurrences could result in our diminished ability to operate our business, inability to attract future borrowers or lending partners, reputational damage, regulatory intervention, and financial harm, which could negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition, and future prospects. If we do not compete effectively in our target markets, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. The consumer lending market is highly competitive and increasingly dynamic as emerging technologies continue to enter the marketplace. With the introduction of new technologies and the influx of new entrants, competition may persist and intensify in the future, which could have an adverse effect on our operations or business. Our inability to compete effectively could result in reduced loan volumes, reduced average size of loans facilitated on our marketplace, reduced fees, increased marketing and borrower acquisition costs or the failure of the Upstart marketplace to achieve or maintain more widespread market acceptance, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 44 Table of Contents Consumer lending is a vast and competitive market, and we compete to varying degrees with all other sources of consumer credit. This can include banks, non-bank lenders, retail-based lenders and other financial technology lending platforms. Because personal loans often serve as a replacement for credit cards, we also compete with the convenience and ubiquity that credit cards and buy now, pay later products represent. Many of our competitors operate with different business models, such as lending-as-a-service, have different funding sources, have different cost structures or regulatory obligations, or participate selectively in different market segments. They may ultimately prove more successful or more adaptable to new regulatory, economic, technological and other developments, including utilizing new data sources or credit models. We may also face competition from banks or companies that have not previously competed in the consumer lending market, including companies with access to vast amounts of consumer-related information that could be used in the development of their own credit risk models. Our current or potential competitors may be better at developing new products due to their large and experienced data science and engineering teams, who are able to respond more quickly to new technologies. Many of our current or potential competitors have significantly more resources, such as financial, technical and marketing resources, than we do and may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their platforms and distribution channels. We face competition in a variety of areas. Our competitors may have longer operating histories, lower commercial financing costs or costs of capital, more extensive borrower bases, more diversified products and borrower bases, operational efficiencies, a better user experience, more versatile or extensive technology platforms, greater brand recognition and brand loyalty, broader borrower and partner relationships, more extensive and/or a more diversified loan funding institutional investor bases, greater capacity to fund loans through their balance sheets, and more extensive product and service offerings . Furthermore, our existing and potential competitors may decide to modify their pricing and business models to compete more directly with us. Our ability to compete will also be affected by our ability to provide our lending partners with a commensurate or more extensive suite of loan products than those offered by our competitors. In addition, current or potential competitors, including financial technology lending platforms and existing or potential lending partners, may also acquire or form strategic alliances with one another, which could result in our competitors being able to offer more competitive loan terms due to their access to lower-cost capital. Such acquisitions or strategic alliances among our competitors or potential competitors could also make our competitors more adaptable to a rapidly evolving regulatory environment. To stay competitive, we may need to increase our regulatory compliance expenditures or our ability to compete may be adversely affected. Our industry is driven by constant innovation. We utilize AI and machine learning, which is characterized by extensive research efforts and rapid technological progress. If we fail to anticipate or respond adequately to technological developments, our ability to operate profitably could suffer. There can be no assurance that research, data accumulation and development by other companies will not result in AI models that are superior to our AI models or result in products superior to those we develop or that any technologies, products or services we develop will be preferred to any existing or newly-developed technologies, products or services. If we are unable to compete with such companies or fail to meet the need for innovation in our industry, the use of our technology could stagnate or substantially decline, or our AI lending marketplace could fail to maintain or achieve more widespread market acceptance, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is heavily concentrated in U.S. consumer credit, and therefore our results are more susceptible to fluctuations in that market than a more diversified company. Our business is heavily concentrated in U.S. consumer credit. As a result, we are more susceptible to fluctuations and risks particular to U.S. consumer credit than a more diversified company. For example, our business is particularly sensitive to macroeconomic conditions that affect the U.S. economy and consumer spending and consumer credit, such as rising interest rates and changes in monetary policy. We are also more susceptible to the risks of increased regulations and legal and other regulatory actions that are targeted at consumer credit. Our business concentration could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and future prospects. 45 Table of Contents If we are unable to manage the risks associated with fraudulent activity, our brand and reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Fraud is prevalent in the financial services industry and is likely to increase as perpetrators become more sophisticated. High profile fraudulent activity also could negatively impact our brand and reputation. We are subject to the risk of fraudulent activity associated with borrowers and third parties handling borrower information and, in limited situations, we cover certain fraud losses of our lending partners and institutional investors. For example, in the third quarter of 2021 and the first quarter of 2022, we experienced temporary increases in fraudulent activity. Fraud rates could also increase in a down-cycle economy. We have experienced employee misconduct in the past and continue to be subject to risk of fraudulent activity associated with our own employees. We use several identity and fraud detection tools, including tools provided by third-party vendors and our proprietary AI models, to predict and otherwise validate or authenticate applicant-reported data and data derived from third-party sources. If such efforts are insufficient to accurately detect and prevent fraud, the level of fraud-related losses of Upstart-powered loans could increase, which would decrease confidence in our AI lending marketplace and have a negative impact on our financial condition and operating results. It is also possible that fraud perpetrators target our marketplace because of the high degree of automation in our credit decision process where borrowers can be approved instantly. In addition, our lending partners, institutional investors or we may not be able to recover amounts disbursed on loans made in connection with inaccurate statements, omissions of fact or fraud, which could erode the trust in our brand and negatively impact our ability to attract new lending partners and institutional investors to our marketplace. In addition, significant increases in fraudulent activity could lead to regulatory intervention, which could increase our costs and also negatively impact our brand and reputation. Further, if there is any increase in fraudulent activity that increases the need for human intervention in screening loan application data, the level of automation on our platform could decline and negatively affect our unit economics. If we are unable to manage these risks, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We depend on our key personnel and other highly skilled personnel, and if we fail to attract, retain and motivate our personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our success significantly depends on the continued service of our senior management team and other highly skilled personnel. Our success also depends on our ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly qualified personnel for all areas of our organization. Competition is high for skilled personnel, including engineering and data analytics personnel, particularly in the San Francisco Bay Area where our headquarters is located. While we have transitioned to a Digital First work model which allows us to recruit nationwide, we have experienced, and expect to continue to face, some difficulty identifying and hiring qualified personnel, especially as we pursue our growth strategy. We may not be able to hire or retain such personnel at compensation or flexibility levels consistent with our existing compensation and salary structure and policies. We periodically review our compensation levels to ensure they remain competitive and have increased them when we believe market conditions warrant it. However, we may need to further increase our existing compensation levels in response to competition, rising inflation or labor shortages, which would increase our operating costs and reduce our margins. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced employees have greater resources and may be able to offer more attractive terms of employment. In particular, candidates making employment decisions, specifically in high-technology industries, often consider the value of any equity they may receive in connection with their employment. The recent significant volatility in the price of our stock may have adversely contributed to, and in the future may affect, our ability to attract or retain highly skilled technical, financial and marketing personnel. In addition, we invest significant time and expense in training our employees, which increases their value to competitors who may seek to recruit them. If we fail to retain our employees, we could incur significant expenses in hiring and training their replacements. While we are in the process of training their replacements, the quality of our services and our ability to serve our lending partners, institutional investors and borrowers whose loans we service may suffer, resulting in an adverse effect on our business. 46 Table of Contents Furthermore, we have reduced our workforce in the past and may further reduce our workforce in the future to lower our operating costs and streamline operations. These reductions in our workforce may adversely affect employee morale, our culture and our ability to attract and retain personnel who are critical to our business. It may also negatively impact our ability to pursue new initiatives due to insufficient resources and personnel. We may be unsuccessful in distributing duties and obligations of impacted employees among the remaining employees. We also may not realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings and may suffer unintended consequences, such as the loss of institutional knowledge, higher than expected employee turnover and significant disruptions in our day-to-day operations. If we are unable to realize the expected operational efficiencies or cost savings from the reductions in our workforce, or if we experience significant adverse consequences as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. If we fail to effectively manage the fluctuations in our business, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our growth in the past placed significant demands on our management, processes and operational, technological and financial resources. Economic headwinds in recent years led to us announcing reductions in our workforce which were intended to help us achieve a more cost-efficient organization. These fluctuations in the momentum of our business challenge our ability to manage our growth effectively and to integrate new employees and technologies into our existing business. Our success as a business continues to require us to retain, attract, train, motivate and manage employees and invest strategically to refine our operational, technological and financial infrastructure. See also the risk factor titled We depend on our key personnel and other highly skilled personnel, and if we fail to attract, retain and motivate our personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. As part of that effort and from time to time, we rely on temporary independent contractor programs to scale our operations team. Failure to effectively implement and manage such programs could result in misclassification or other employment related claims or inquiries by governmental agencies. Continued fluctuations in the momentum of our business will strain our ability to develop and improve our operational policies and procedures, AI models and technology, disclosure