Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 2. Properties. We lease approximately 3,000 square feet for our corporate headquarters, sales, marketing, development and customer support divisions located at 33 East 33rd Street, Suite 1101, New York, New York 10016 under a lease expiring in August 2015. 6 We believe that our existing facilities are suitable and adequate and that we have sufficient capacity to meet our current anticipated needs. None of these facilities are critical to our operations because suitable alternatives are available in substantially all of the locations where we conduct business. We continuously review our anticipated requirements for facilities and, on the basis of that review, may from time to time acquire or lease additional facilities and/or dispose of existing facilities. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. From time to time, we are periodically a party to or otherwise involved in legal proceedings arising in the normal and ordinary course of business. As of the date of this report, we are not aware of any proceeding, threatened or pending, against us which, if determined adversely, would have a material effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. Not applicable . PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Our common stock is quoted on the Bulletin Board under the symbol USEL. As of March 25, 2015, the last reported sale price of our common stock as reported by the Bulletin Board was $1.21 per share. As of that date, there were approximately 118 shareholders of record. This number does not include beneficial owners whose shares are held in the names of various securities brokers, dealers and registered clearing agencies. All share and per share information in the table below reflects the 1-for-15 reverse stock split which was effected on January 21, 2014. The following table provides the high and low bid price information for our common stock for the periods indicated which reflect inter-dealer prices, without retail mark-up, mark-down or commission and may not necessarily represent actual transactions. Year Quarter Ended Stock Price High Low ($) ($) 2014 December 31 2.78 1.82 September 30 4.02 2.46 June 30 4.98 2.85 March 31 5.42 3.37 2013 December 31 5.62 2.10 September 30 3.46 2.10 June 30 3.45 1.05 March 31 2.70 1.27 Dividend Policy We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not plan to pay any such dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to use all available funds to develop our business. We can give no assurances that we will ever have excess funds available to pay dividends. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities In addition to those unregistered securities previously disclosed in filings with the SEC, we have issued shares of common stock which are not registered under the Securities Act of 1933 (the Act), as described below. Name or Class of Investor Date Issued No. of Securities Consideration Advisors (1) August 15, 2014 20,000 shares of common stock Consulting services Consultants (1) December 2, 2014 35,000 shares of restricted stock units Consulting services 7 (1) Issued in reliance upon the exemption from registration contained in Section 4(a)(2) of the Act and Rule 506(b) promulgated thereunder. Item 6. Selected Financial Data. Not required for smaller reporting companies. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this report on Form 10-K. In addition to historical information, this discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including but not limited to those set forth under Risk Factors. Company Overview uSell.com, Inc. is a technology based company focused on creating an online marketplace where sellers interested in selling small consumer electronics, through an ecommerce website-based service, can: Find cash offers for their items based on the make, model, and condition of each item, Efficiently compare offers for those items from a marketplace of professional buyers, Review satisfaction ratings and customer reviews of each buyer, Determine the offer they wish to accept, Immediately complete their transaction on our website with the buyer of their choice, Ship their device for free using either a prepaid shipping kit or shipping label, and Track the progress of their order online from initiation to final payment for their device. Our business model is similar to successful ecommerce websites such as Amazon (www.amazon.com) and eBay (www.ebay.com). These companies leverage the power of a specialized network of merchants to (i) offer competitive pricing to the customer, (ii) assist the customer in deciding who to transact with by providing relevant information about each merchant, and (iii) provide fulfillment services to facilitate transactions. However, while websites like Amazon and eBay enable buyers to purchase goods by leveraging a network of professional sellers, uSell enables sellers to sell goods by leveraging a network of professional buyers. By late March 2014, we completed a material change to our business model. We began implementing this change in early February, and phased it in over the subsequent four to six weeks. Under the new model, buyers pay us a commission only when they pay the seller for a received device. We believe that this model accomplishes the following: lowers risk for our buyers; provides buyers with a more competitive device acquisition cost; allows buyers to offer higher prices to sellers; increases our conversion rates and throughput; and increases our revenues and cash flows. The new business model and pricing is designed so that our marketplace business is only successful when our sellers and buyers are successful. As a further development to our technology and business model, in October 2014, we launched our Managed by uSell service, whereby we partnered with a third party logistics company to inspect and process devices before passing them along to buyers offering the highest prices for each device. This service was rolled out to a portion of our order volume during the fourth quarter, and is continuing through the first quarter of 2015. By centralizing the inspection process, we standardize the grading procedures for devices, guarantee quick processing times and ensure swift and successful payment to the sellers upon inspection. In addition, we: 8 Significantly increase our revenues due to the fact that we recognize the full value of devices processed through this system; Leverage our scale advantage over the individual buyers in our network, and, therefore, are able to charge our buyers a fee for the service at a discount to what they can do themselves; Allow our buyers to focus on their core businesses of selling phones on the second hand market, while we handle all of the peripheral activities that they would prefer not to be involved in; Ensure that buyers get the exact devices they bid for, while sellers are provided a fair appraisal and quick payment; Can better control the customer experience while still leveraging the price competition in the marketplace. Reverse Stock Split On January 21, 2014, we effected a 1-for-15 reverse stock split of our common stock. As a result of the reverse stock split, every fifteen shares of our common stock were combined into one share of common stock. Immediately after the January 21, 2014 effective date, we had 4,907,462 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. The share numbers and prices in this report have been adjusted to give retroactive effect to the reverse stock split. The authorized number of shares of our common stock and the par value remained the same. The Reverse Split did not affect the shares of preferred stock outstanding, however it did affect the number of common stock shares issuable to holders upon conversion. 2014 Highlights We completed a material change to our business model during the first quarter of 2014, which positively impacted a number of our marketplace metrics during the year ended December 31, 2014. Additionally, we completed a private offering of 591,666 shares of our common stock, generating net proceeds of $1,679,000, and a public offering of 1,550,000 Units at $3.00 per Unit, consisting of one share of common stock and one-half warrant to purchase one share of common stock, generating net proceeds of $3,704,000. Other significant highlights noted are as follows: Went from a working capital deficit of ($1,269,000) on December 31, 2013 to working capital of $1,684,000 on December 31, 2014. Went from a stockholders deficit of ($666,000) on December 31, 2013 to stockholders equity of $2,569,000 on December 31, 2014. Increased prices offered to sellers, leading to higher conversion rates and throughput, during the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. Grew the volume of Orders Placed from 309,800 for the year ended December 31, 2013 to 506,400 for the year ended December 31, 2014, an increase of 63%. Grew the volume of Orders Completed from 125,500 for the year ended December 31, 2013 to 237,800 for the year ended December 31, 2014, an increase of 89%. Processed $5,853,500, $5,040,800 and $5,780,877 in GMV for the quarters ended December 31, 2014, September 30, 2014 and June 30, 2014, respectively. Please note that we have not tracked this metric prior to the second quarter of 2014. In the future we plan on comparing GMV on a year over year basis to properly account for seasonality. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 3 to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements contained herein for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. Critical Accounting Policies In response to financial reporting release FR-60, Cautionary Advice Regarding Disclosure About Critical Accounting Policies, from the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), we have selected our more subjective accounting estimation processes for purposes of explaining the methodology used in calculating the estimate, in addition to the inherent uncertainties pertaining to the estimate and the possible effects on the our financial condition. The accounting estimates are discussed below and involve certain assumptions that if incorrect could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. See Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements contained herein for further discussion regarding our critical accounting policies and estimates. 9 Intangible Assets Our intangible assets pertain to capitalized software costs and our website domain address. We capitalize costs related to software developed or obtained for internal use when management commits to funding the project, the project completes the preliminary project stage and the software will be used to perform the function intended. Capitalization of such costs ceases when the project is substantially complete and ready for its intended use. We periodically review the carrying values of our long-lived assets when events or changes in circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that their carrying values may exceed their fair values, and record an impairment charge when considered necessary. When circumstances indicate that an impairment of value may have occurred, we test such assets for recoverability by comparing the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use of such assets and their eventual disposition to their carrying amounts. If the undiscounted future cash flows are less that the carrying amount of the asset, an impairment loss, measured as the excess of the carrying amount of the asset over its estimated fair value, is recognized. Fair value, for purposes of calculating impairment, is measured based on estimated future cash flows, discounted at a market rate of interest. Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized when all of the following conditions exist: (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (2) delivery has occurred, (3) the sales price is fixed or determinable, and (4) collectability is reasonably assured. Seller Electronics Referrals Sellers responding to our advertising campaigns go to our website where they can search for the items they wish to sell using a streamlined point and click interface. Once they have identified their device, they are asked a single question to describe the condition of the device. At this point, they are presented with the best match, or uSells recommended offer from one of our buyers. We offer this recommendation based on both the price offered by the buyer relative to other buyers and the quality of ratings of the buyer relative to other buyers. The seller may choose to view a larger list of offers from all buyers interested in purchasing their device. During 2013, and into 2014, we earned up front lead fees from buyers when sellers accepted offers on our website and filled out a form to request a free shipping kit. This fee was received regardless of whether the sellers ultimately sent in their devices to the buyers. We recognized revenue upon online acceptance of the buyers offer by the seller. We record payments received from buyers in advance of offer acceptance as deferred revenue at the time payment is received. During 2013, our buyers paid fees based on the demand for the individual item which the seller was seeking to sell. Fees were not based on the value of the item sold. For instance, an iPhone might have had a higher fee than an Android, even if that particular Android had a higher offer price to the seller. Beginning in February 2014, we started a transition of our business model, which was phased in over the subsequent six weeks. Under the new model, buyers pay us a commission only when they pay the seller for a received device and we recognize revenue upon payment to the seller. As a further development to our business model, in October 2014, we launched our Managed by uSell service, whereby we partnered with a third party logistics company to inspect, wipe and process devices before passing them along to buyers. Under this new model, title to a device passes to uSell upon issuance of payment to the seller, which is generally within one to two days from the receipt of the device at the third party warehouse. Title to a device is then transferred to the buyer upon shipment to the buyer. As a result, starting in October 2014, we began recognizing the full value of the processed devices in both revenues and cost of revenues. Fulfillment Revenue We offer fulfillment services on behalf of our buyers for the items sold by sellers. We act as the agent in these transactions, passing orders booked by our buyers to our vendors, who then assemble the kits and mail them directly to the sellers. We earn a standard fee from our buyers and recognize revenue upon shipment of the kits to the sellers. We evaluated the presentation of revenue on a gross versus net basis and determined that since we perform as an agent without assuming the risks and rewards of ownership of the goods, revenue should be reported on a net basis. Advertising Revenue Advertising revenues primarily come from payments for text-based sponsored links and display advertisements. Generally, our advertisers pay us on a cost per click, or CPC basis, which means advertisers pay us only when someone clicks on one of their advertisements, or on a cost per thousand impression basis, or CPM. Paying on a CPM basis means that advertisers pay us based on the number of times their advertisements appear on our websites or mobile applications. Advertising revenue is recognized as income when the advertising services are rendered. 10 Share-Based Payment Arrangements We account for stock options in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 718: Compensation - Stock Compensation. ASC 718 requires generally that all equity awards be accounted for at their fair value. This fair value is measured on the grant date for stock-settled awards, and at subsequent exercise or settlement for cash-settled awards. Fair value is equal to the underlying value of the stock for full-value awards such as restricted stock and performance shares, and estimated using an option-pricing model with traditional inputs for appreciation awards such as stock options and stock appreciation rights. Costs equal to these fair values are recognized ratably over the requisite service period based on the number of awards that are expected to vest, or in the period of grant for awards that vest immediately and have no future service condition. For awards that vest over time, cumulative adjustments in later periods are recorded to the extent actual forfeitures differ from our initial estimates: previously recognized compensation cost is reversed if the service or performance conditions are not satisfied and the award is forfeited. The expense resulting from share-based payments is recorded in general and administrative expense. Subsequent modifications to outstanding awards result in incremental cost if the fair value is increased as a result of the modification. Thus, a value-for-value stock option repricing or exchange of awards in conjunction with an equity restructuring does not result in additional compensation cost. Results of Operations Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2014 to the Year Ended December 31, 2013 The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, consolidated statements of operations information: Years Ended December 31, Change Change 2014 2013 (Dollars) (Percentage) Revenue $ 6,665,429 $ 5,371,381 $ 1,294,048 24 % Costs and Expenses Cost of Revenue 1,921,175 416,233 1,504,942 362 % Sales and Marketing 5,811,873 4,729,552 1,082,321 23 % General and Administrative 4,659,710 4,480,070 179,640 4 % Operating Loss (5,727,329 ) (4,254,474 ) (1,472,855 ) 35 % Other (Expense) Income (1,561,153 ) (8,382 ) (1,552,771 ) NM % Net Loss $ (7,288,482 ) $ (4,262,856 ) $ (3,025,626 ) 71 % NM: Not Meaningful Revenue by Type The following table breaks down our revenue by type: Years Ended December 31, 2014 2013 Seller Electronics Referrals $ 5,961,269 89 % $ 4,923,124 92 % Fulfillment Revenue 303,358 5 % 162,965 3 % Advertising Revenue 306,158 5 % 274,919 5 % Other Revenue 94,634 1 % 10,373 0 % $ 6,665,429 100 % $ 5,371,381 100 % Seller Electronics Referral. Before March 2014, we earned up front lead fees from buyers when sellers accepted offers on our website and filled out a form to request a free shipping kit. This fee was received regardless of whether these sellers ultimately sent in their devices to the buyers. Buyers treated these lead fees as a marketing expense, and had to consider historical data on send in rates when setting pricing on the website. We recognized the related revenue upon the sellers acceptance of an offer and submission of the form on the website. Beginning in February 2014 and for the subsequent six weeks, we phased in a major change to our business model. Under the new model, we eliminated the upfront lead fees to buyers and began charging transactional fees when buyers pay sellers for received devices. Whereas prior to the change, we recognized revenue upon acceptance of an offer and submission of the form on our website, we now recognize revenue upon payment to the seller. This aligns our incentives with sellers and reduces risk for buyers. 11 Additionally, our shift in model has increased the importance of seasonality and new smartphone product launches to our business. Whereas in the prior lead fee model, we charged the same lead fees regardless of the time of year, we now earn a percentage of the gross amount of the transaction between the buyer and the seller. Therefore, during times of the year where sellers are selling higher end smartphones, our revenues will generally increase. Conversely, during times of the year when sellers are selling lower end smartphones, our revenues will generally decrease. As a further development to our business model, in October 2014, we launched our Managed by uSell service, whereby we partnered with a third party logistics company to inspect, wipe and process devices before passing them along to buyers. Under this new model, title to a device passes to uSell upon issuance of payment to the seller, which is generally within one to two days from the receipt of the device at the third party warehouse. Title to a device is then transferred to the buyer upon shipment to the buyer. As a result, starting in October 2014, we began recognizing the full value of the processed devices in both revenues and cost of revenues. As a result of the shift in our business model, we saw an increase in several of our marketplace metrics. Most notably, we have seen meaningful increases in conversion rates and throughput as compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. Since the change, the average price offered to sellers has increased substantially, compared to the same period in the prior year, which has resulted in an increase in our conversion rates. As our conversion rates have increased, so has volume, as measured by Orders Placed, Orders Completed and GMV. The following table presents Orders Placed and Orders Completed for the year ended December 31, 2014 and 2013: Orders Placed Orders Completed 2014 2013 % Change 2014 2013 % Change Quarter ended March 31, 84,400 73,500 15 % 33,500 26,400 27 % Quarter ended June 30, 146,500 73,800 99 % 67,500 30,200 124 % Quarter ended September 30, 156,300 87,200 79 72,300 38,000 90 Quarter ended December 31, 119,200 75,300 58 % 64,500 30,900 109 % Year ended December 31, 506,400 309,800 63 % 237,800 125,500 89 % Despite the fact that Orders Completed decreased between the quarter ended September 30, 2014 and the quarter ended December 31, 2014, GMV increased from $5,040,800 to $5,853,600, respectively. This was primarily due to the launch of the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus in September 2014, whereby both revenue per device and Orders Placed grew to record levels. Because of the timing of revenue recognition in our new model, the positive revenue impact of this growth was not seen until the fourth quarter of 2014. Fulfillment Revenue. Our fulfillment services offered on behalf of our buyers for items sold by sellers was fully implemented in March 2013. Accordingly, the year ended December 31 2013 does not reflect normalized fulfillment revenue, compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. Additionally, due to the increased number of Orders Completed resulting from the implementation of our new business model, we had a corresponding increase in fulfillment services revenue during the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. Advertising Revenue. We generate advertising revenues from text-based sponsored links and display advertisements. Advertising services were implemented in June 2013 and, accordingly, the year ended December 31, 2013 does not reflect normalized advertising revenue, compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. Other Revenue. Other revenue during the year ended December 31, 2014 mainly represents fees earned for the development and hosting of the trade-in platform related to our Staples contract. Cost of Revenue Our cost of revenue for generating transactions for our buyers consists primarily of costs to access and maintain our website, as well as amortization expense on our technology platform software. Beginning in October 2014, cost of revenue pertaining to the sale of devices to buyers includes the cost of acquiring the device, as well as any other direct costs and expenses required to inspect and process the devices internally before shipping them to the buyers. Accordingly, with the implementation of the Managed by uSell program, our gross profit is now impacted by the recognition of the cost of sales related to the devices under this program. 12 Sales and Marketing Expenses The following table compares our revenue to the amount of sales and marketing expenses for the corresponding periods. Years Ended Dec. 31, 2014 2013 Revenue $ 6,665,429 $ 5,371,381 Sales and Marketing Expenses $ 5,811,873 $ 4,729,552 Percentage of Revenue 87 % 88 % Our sales and marketing expenses represent one of our most significant costs, amounting to 87% and 88% of revenue for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. We utilize direct response advertising and marketing campaigns, including television, print and Internet to attract visitors to our website. Our sales and marketing costs include production costs to produce and edit advertisements as well as the costs to run them. We manage our advertising and marketing campaigns, and make allocation decisions, by measuring their effectiveness based on a variety of metrics, including response rates, conversion rates and average revenue statistics. We used the proceeds from the public offering of our common stock in order to build out our marketing and analytics function and to increase spend on marketing and advertising in order to further accelerate our revenue growth. The increase in our marketing and advertising spend had two purposes: a) To build awareness ahead of Apples iPhone 6 launch, the impact of which was seen in our Order growth in September and October 2014; and b) To conduct online and offline tests with the intention of leveraging the learnings from these tests to create marketing efficiencies over the next 12 months. Due to the timing of revenues and cash flows under our new business model, we experienced a short-term increase in our sales and marketing expense, with a corresponding short-term lag in the recognition of the related revenues. Under our new business model, we will continue to experience a short-term increase in our cash burn in periods of accelerated marketing spend. However, we believe that this short term investment has provided us with substantial strategic value that will be recognized in the next year. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses include professional fees for technology, legal and accounting services as well as consulting and internal personnel costs for our back office support functions. Our general and administrative expenses for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 were impacted by non-cash compensation expense pertaining to share grants and option grants for services. Excluding non-cash compensation expense, our general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2014 increased by $835,000, or 36%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. The increase is mainly attributable to an increase in (a) salary and salary-related expenses, (b) public relations expense, (c) credit card processing fees and (d) bad debt expense. During the year ended December 31, 2014, we utilized the proceeds from the sale of our common stock to build our marketing and analytics function, which increased our salaries and salary related expenses by $256,000 and recruiting fee expense by $54,000, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. Public relations expense, including marketing and investor relations presentations pertaining to our equity raises during the year ended December 31, 2014, increased by approximately $154,000, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. Credit card processing fees increased by approximately $111,000 as a result of the increase in orders processed on our platform. Further, the year ended December 31, 2013 includes a recovery of bad debt expense of approximately $67,000, whereas the year ended December 31, 2014 includes provision for bad debt expense of $20,000, in relation to our ongoing assessment of the recoverability and collectability of our accounts receivable. During the year ended December 31, 2014, we recognized approximately $149,000 of income due to the reversal of previously recorded liabilities, compared to approximately $218,000 of income in the prior year. Other Income (Expenses) Other income (expense) during the year ended December 31, 2014 resulted primarily from the conversion of our Convertible Notes in February 2014. As a result of the conversion, the remaining unamortized discount of $874,000, as well as the remaining unamortized balance of debt issue costs of $9,000, was recognized as non-cash interest expense. Additionally, we recorded approximately $9,000 of contractual interest expense and approximately $681,000 of derivative expense related to the change in the fair market value of the derivative liability on our Convertible Notes through the date of conversion. 13 Other income (expense) during the year ended December 31, 2013 includes approximately $335,000 of interest expense primarily attributable to our 2013 Convertible Notes. We recorded approximately $309,000 of non-cash interest expense related to the accretion of the discount associated with our 2013 Convertible Notes and approximately $23,000 of contractual interest expense on our 2013 Convertible Notes. Additionally, we recorded approximately $61,000 of derivative expense in connection with the initial valuation of the derivative liability pertaining to the price protection feature on our 2013 Convertible Notes and approximately $149,000 related to the change in the market value of the derivative liability pertaining to our 2013 Convertible Notes. Other income (expense) during the year ended December 31, 2013 also includes approximately $189,000 related to the gain on the settlement of certain accounts payable due to the final liquidation of our UK subsidiary and approximately $48,000 of income due to the change in the market value of the derivative liability pertaining to our 2011 Series A preferred stock (2011 Series A). In March 2013, all 177,906 shares of outstanding 2011 Series A were converted into common stock. Liquidity and Capital Resources We utilize direct response advertising and marketing campaigns, including television, print and Internet to attract sellers to our website where we help them monetize household items, such as small consumer electronics that they are no longer using. These advertising and marketing campaigns are our most significant use of cash from operations. Payment policies for these campaigns vary by advertising medium and by vendor. Payment terms vary as well, but in general payment for our advertisements is due within two-weeks or less of when the advertisement airs. Other significant uses of cash include production costs to create our advertisements, salary expense for our employees, and professional fees. Under our new business model, we typically collect cash receipts from buyers on our marketplace within five days of when buyers receive devices. This time period may be longer in the case when the device received is either a different device or is in a different condition than what the seller represented when completing the sign-up on our website. In those instances, a re-quote process occurs. A new offer is made to the seller, which the seller may either accept or reject. If the re-quote offer is accepted, we typically collect the corresponding cash receipts within five days from the day the offer was accepted. If the re-quote is rejected, the device is sent back to the seller and no cash receipts are received. The re-quote process occurs on approximately 30% of devices received and approximately 75% of re-quotes are accepted. Cash Flows from Operating Activities We used approximately $3,485,000 of cash in operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2014, an increase from approximately $1,778,000 of cash used in operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2013. Our net loss during the year ended December 31, 2014 of approximately $7,288,000 was mainly offset by approximately $1,492,000 of stock-based compensation, $874,000 from the amortization of remaining debt discount on our Convertible Notes, $681,000 from the change in the market value of the derivative liability pertaining to our Convertible Notes and $616,000 of depreciation and amortization. Changes in working capital provided approximately $121,000 of cash during the year ended December 31, 2014. Our net loss of approximately $4,263,000 during the year ended December 31, 2013 was mainly offset by approximately $2,148,000 of stock-based compensation, $363,000 of depreciation and amortization and $309,000 of amortization of debt discount pertaining to our 2013 Convertible Notes. The 2013 net loss was also impacted by a gain on the settlement of certain accounts payable of approximately $189,000 and approximately $149,000 from the change in the market value of the derivative liability pertaining to our 2013 Convertible Notes. Changes in working capital provided approximately $46,000 of cash during the year ended December 31, 2013. Cash Flows from Investing Activities During the year ended December 31, 2014, we capitalized approximately $657,000 of website development costs, compared to $541,000 during the year ended December 31, 2013. We currently do not have any capital obligations or commitments that will require a significant amount of capital. Cash Flows from Financing Activities During the year ended December 31, 2014, our financing activities generated approximately $4,650,000 in proceeds from the August 2014 public offering and $1,775,000 in proceeds from the private placement offering of our common stock. In addition, we received proceeds of $300,000 from the sale of our Convertible Series A Preferred Stock (2014 Series A) and $388,000 from the exercise of warrants. Proceeds from our financing activities were offset by approximately $1,042,000 of offering costs paid. During the year ended December 31, 2013, our financing activities generated approximately $1,209,000 in net proceeds from our 2013 Convertible Notes. 14 Liquidity We do not yet have a sustained history of financial stability. Historically, our principal source of liquidity has been the issuances of debt and equity securities (including to related parties), including preferred stock, common stock and various debt financing transactions. We believe that, with our current available cash along with the anticipated increase in revenues, we will have sufficient funds to meet our anticipated cash needs for the next ten months. These factors raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. In January 2014, we issued a total of 100,000 shares of 2014 Series A in exchange for $300,000. In February and March 2014, we issued a total of 591,666 shares of common stock to accredited investors in exchange for net proceeds of $1,679,000. In August 2014, we issued a total of 1,550,000 Units at $3.00 per Unit in a public offering, consisting of one share of common stock and one-half warrant to purchase one share of commons stock, for net proceeds of $3,704,000. There can be no assurance that the plans and actions proposed by management will be successful, that we will generate profitability and positive cash flows in the future, or that our diversification and expansion plans will not require substantial amounts of capital beyond our current capabilities. With the recent cuts we implemented, we expect that we have approximately ten months of cash left. We are exploring a number of options to provide working capital including strategic partnerships and seeking equity or debt financings. See Risk Factors including the risk at page ___ of this Report. We cannot assure you that we will consummate a transaction or financing that will enable us to meet our working capital needs. Future efforts to raise additional funds may not be successful or they may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recovery of the recorded assets or the classification of the liabilities that might be necessary should we be unable to continue as a going concern. The ability of the Company to continue as a going concern is dependent on managements plans, which include further implementation of its business plan and continuing to raise capital. Other Developments In the fourth quarter of 2014, major carriers like AT&T and Verizon and big box retailers, like Apple and Best Buy, became very aggressive in marketing their trade in programs. This, along with record sales of the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, resulted in an unprecedented number of trade-ins across the industry. Immediately following the announcement of the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, uSell benefitted by the increased awareness of trade-in programs, and saw record numbers of devices traded in. However, this surplus in devices also resulted in a prolonged drop in the prices of devices in the second hand market. While this drop occurs every year, the decrease in prices was significantly deeper and more prolonged in 2014 than in previous years. The decrease in prices had two adverse affects on uSell: (1) volume dropped on new orders because of high consumer price elasticities and (2) the average revenue per device that uSell earned began to fall. Due to uSell's improved analytics capability, we were able to detect the problem early and recently made the decision to scale back on our marketing spend and reduce the headcount of our marketing staff. We believe that the cutbacks in our marketing spend and marketing staff will save the Company approximately $2.4 million dollars on an annualized basis. However, these cuts are likely to impact our future revenues. While these events were unfortunate, they have also shed light on a much larger opportunity for uSell. The drop in prices was felt throughout the industry, with the large processors and wholesalers that purchase from the carriers and retailers experiencing the most adverse affects. As trade-in programs continue to expand over the coming years, it is vitally important that these wholesalers and processors find a more efficient means of selling devices. We believe that uSell is the only player in the industry with the technology to distribute devices to a diverse base of small merchants in an efficient and scalable manner. There is a significant opportunity for us to augment our consumer supply with supply from these wholesalers and processors in order to satisfy the ever-growing demand from its base of buyers. Given the above, we decided to shift the bulk of our investment from marketing to technology. The strategy moving forward will be to augment our supply with wholesale deals, rather than to rely solely on consumer marketing to feed our growing marketplace of buyers. Related Party Transactions None. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. 15 Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements This report includes forward-looking statements including statements regarding liquidity, anticipated revenues, capital expenditures, expectations from proposed capital raises, and anticipated results from increasing buyers on our site. The words believe, may, estimate, continue, anticipate, intend, should, plan, could, target, potential, is likely, will, expect and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. We have based these forward-looking statements largely on our current expectations and projections about future events and financial trends that we believe may affect our financial condition, results of operations, business strategy and financial needs. The results anticipated by any or all of these forward-looking statements might not occur. Important factors, uncertainties and risks that may cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are contained in the Risk Factors that follow. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as the result of new information, future events or otherwise. For more information regarding some of the ongoing risks and uncertainties of our business, see the Risk Factors and our other filings with the SEC. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following Risk Factors before deciding whether to invest in uSell. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations or our financial condition. If any of the events discussed in the Risk Factors below occur, our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, the value and marketability of the common stock could decline. Risks Relating to Our Business Our ability to continue as a going concern is in substantial doubt absent obtaining adequate new debt or equity financing and generating sufficient revenue from operations. We incurred net losses of approximately $7.3 million in 2014 and $4.3 million in 2013. We anticipate these losses will continue for the foreseeable future. Additionally, we have negative cash flows from operations. Our continued existence is dependent upon generating sufficient working capital and obtaining adequate new debt or equity financing. Because of our continuing losses, we may have to continue to reduce our expenditures, without improvements in our cash flow from operations or new financing. Working capital limitations continue to impinge on our day-to-day operations, thus contributing to continued operating losses. Because we need additional capital to fund our growing operations, we may not be able to obtain sufficient capital and may be forced to limit the scope of our operations. With our recent cuts in headcount and marketing we believe that our cash on hand and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for approximately ten months. We are exploring a number of options to meet our working capital needs, including strategic partnerships and the sale of additional equity or debt securities. Because of the difficulty that microcap companies have in raising capital, the lack of available credit for companies like us, and our stock price, we may be hampered in our ability to raise the necessary working capital. Even if we do find a source of additional capital, we may not be able to negotiate terms and conditions for receiving the additional capital that are acceptable to us. Any future capital investments will dilute or otherwise materially and adversely affect the holdings or rights of our existing shareholders. In the past, we were required to offer anti-dilution rights to certain investors. These types of rights are very dilutive to existing investors. We cannot assure you that we will not be required to issue such rights in the future. In addition, new equity or debt securities issued by us to obtain financing could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock. We cannot give you any assurance that we can consummate any strategic partnerships to meet our working capital needs or any additional financing will be available to us, or if available, will be on terms favorable to us. If we require additional financing and such financing is not available on reasonable terms or at all, we may have to further reduce our marketing efforts and we will have to modify our business plans accordingly. This will increase our future losses. Because we have a limited operating history to evaluate our Company and our new business model, the likelihood of our success must be considered in light of the problems, expenses, difficulties, complications and delay frequently encountered by a new company. We have been operating our current business model since April 2012, when we acquired ecoSquid Inc., or Acquisition Corp. Acquisition Corp. owned the intellectual property that we licensed in order to develop marketplace technologies to connect sellers with professional, wholesale buyers of smartphones and other electronics. Over the last three years we have continued to develop our technology, refine our pricing model, and build relationships with buyers. 16 Recently we made a material change to our business model and how we generate revenue. Until March 2014, we earned up front lead fees from buyers when sellers accepted offers on our website and filled out a form to request a free shipping kit. This fee was received regardless of whether these sellers ultimately sent in their devices to the buyers. Beginning in February 2014, and for the subsequent six weeks, we phased in a major change to our business model. Under the new model, we eliminated the upfront lead fees to buyers and began charging transactional fees when buyers pay sellers for received devices. While prior to the change we recognized revenue upon acceptance of an offer and submission of the form on our website, we now recognize revenue upon payment to the seller. As a further development to our business model, in October 2014, we launched our Managed by uSell service, whereby we partnered with a third party logistics company to inspect, wipe and process devices before passing them along to buyers. Under this new model, title to a device passes to uSell upon issuance of payment to the seller, which is generally within one to two days from the receipt of the device at the third party warehouse. Title to a device is then transferred to the buyer upon shipment to the buyer. As a result, starting in October 2014, we began recognizing the full value of the processed devices in both revenues and cost of revenues. It is too early to judge the ultimate success of this change. Since we have a limited operating history, we cannot assure you that our business will be profitable. Early stage companies often are unsuccessful and encounter unanticipated expenses and difficulties. Investors should consider this risk in determining whether to purchase or sell our common stock. We may be unable to maintain or establish relationships with buyers, which would adversely affect our results of operations. In July 2011, we focused our business on creating an online marketplace where sellers could sell their small electronics. This was a new, unproven market for us. Our ability to attract sellers of small electronics to our website depends in large part on providing a sufficient number of buyers to make our online marketplace efficient in order to provide sellers with the best available pricing and service. We do not have long-term or exclusive agreements with our buyers. The loss of existing relationships with buyers, or an inability to continue to add new ones, may cause our platform to provide less than optimal pricing, SKU coverage, or other benefits important to customers visiting our website. This deficiency could reduce customer confidence in the offers provided by buyers on our website, making sellers less likely to sell to our buyers and come back to our website, which would limit the revenues we are able to generate from our platform. In turn, this will adversely affect our business. If any of our buyers provide poor customer service to our sellers, it could hurt the uSell brand and adversely affect our business. We believe the importance of customer service in order to generate business and repeat sellers is paramount to our ability to be successful. If any of our buyers provide poor customer service, including delayed and/or reduced payments, we may lose sellers. In particular, sellers may think their electronics and other products are in better condition than they are or may not know the exact model, which could result in our buyers paying sellers less than they anticipated. Although we provide sellers with the ability to rate our buyers after they have completed their transaction, there is no assurance that this rating system provides an accurate depiction of the service provided by our buyers. Because we cannot control key elements of our business, we may not be successful. Although we are responsible for creating effective marketing campaigns and for providing a robust, secure and easy to use website for sellers, we have no ability to control our buyers whose ability to provide top notch service is a key part of our business model. If our buyers do not provide excellent service and prices that sellers perceive to be fair, it would affect the reputation of our business, as well as possibly helping our competitors. While our new Managed by uSell options substantially reduces this risk, we still rely on third parties for part of that program and on buyers to make offers, provide funds to pay sellers and evaluate the condition of smartphones and other products for a portion of our business. We cannot assure you that our buyers will perform the services in a satisfactory way. If we cannot manage our growth effectively, we may not become profitable. Businesses which grow rapidly often have difficulty managing their growth. If we grow as rapidly as we anticipate, we will need to expand our management by recruiting and employing experienced executives and key employees capable of providing the necessary support. We cannot assure you that our management will be able to manage our growth effectively or successfully. Our failure to meet these challenges could cause us to lose money, and your investment could be lost. 17 Additionally, the majority of our buyers are small electronic recycling companies which are not largely capitalized and do not have the infrastructure to adapt to our expected rapid growth. If our buyers do not have the liquidity to pay all of the sellers that come to our site, sellers may not get paid on time which would hurt the uSell brand. All of these factors could adversely affect our ability to become profitable. If we do not have sufficient capital to market our service, our revenue will be insufficient to support our operations. With our recent cuts, we are currently spending approximately $220,000 a month on marketing which is not enough money to market our service in a manner which we expect will generate enough revenue to support our operations. As we continue to enhance our infrastructure, we believe it will improve our efficiency and increase the number of buyers on our site; we believe, this in turn, will allow us to optimize our marketing spend. If these efforts do not generate the revenue level we anticipate, or if we lack sufficient capital, our revenue will be insufficient to support our operations. Our future growth and profitability will depend in large part upon the effectiveness of our marketing and advertising expenditures. Our future growth and profitability will depend in large part upon our media performance, including our ability to: create greater awareness of our platform; identify the most effective and efficient level of spending in each market and specific media vehicle; determine the appropriate creative message and media mix for advertising, marketing, and promotional expenditures; and effectively manage marketing costs (including creative and media). Our planned marketing expenditures may not result in increased revenue. If our media performance is not effective, our future results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. If we fail to retain our key personnel, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth and our business could suffer. Our future depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel and the continued contributions of our executive officers, each of whom may be difficult to replace. The loss of the services of any of these officers and the process to replace any key personnel would involve significant time and expense and may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. Our business could be negatively affected by changes in general search engine algorithms and dynamics or termination of traffic-generating arrangements. We use Internet search engines, principally through the purchase of branded and smart phone related keywords, to generate traffic to our websites. Search engines, such as Google, frequently update and change the logic which determines the placement and ordering of results of a users search, which may reduce the effectiveness of the keywords we have purchased. If a major search engine, such as Google, changes its algorithms in a manner that negatively affects the search engine ranking of our website, or changes its pricing, operating, or competitive dynamics to our disadvantage, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. Because we face intense competition for business, our future results of operations and our future financial condition may be adversely affected. We compete with eBay and other online auction companies, Gazelle, a leading platform for selling used small electronics, and many small websites including our buyers. In addition, cellular service providers, such as AT&T, Verizon, T-Mobile and Sprint, and large retail companies, such as Apple, Staples and Best Buy, have introduced trade-in programs for used smartphone and tablet devices, including programs which gives sellers the right to turn in their phone every six months for a new phone. Our smaller size, lack of an established brand name, shorter operating history, and limited working capital may limit our advertising levels, our ability to expand successfully into new markets or effectively compete against these other companies. If we are not able to compete effectively, our future business and our future results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. Because we rely on the continuing rapid pace of technological development in the smartphone and tablet industries, if innovation in these industries were to decrease, our future results of operation will be adversely affected. We believe that one of the driving factors for the potential success of our platform is the continued improvements in the smartphone industry and tablet market. Because many sellers have in the past expressed a continual need to have the latest generation phones and iPads or other tablets, the opportunity for providing these sellers with an outlet to sell their used electronics is promising. However, we cannot guarantee that sellers will visit our website to sell their used electronics. If innovation in smartphone or tablet device technology were to level off, the purchase of new phones and tablets could be diminished, reducing the need for an online marketplace for selling used electronics. In such an event, our results of operations would suffer and we may not be able to continue operations. 18 Because we rely on information technology to operate our businesses and maintain our competitiveness, any failure to adapt to technological developments or industry trends could harm our business. We depend upon the use of sophisticated information technology, including software. As our operations grow in both size and scope, we must continuously improve and upgrade our systems including our hardware and infrastructure to offer our sellers enhanced products, services, features and functionality, while maintaining the reliability and integrity of our systems and infrastructure. Our future success also depends on our ability to adapt our services and infrastructure to meet rapidly evolving industry standards while continuing to improve the performance, features and reliability of our service in response to competitive service and product offerings and the changing demands of the marketplace. In particular, expanding our systems and infrastructure to meet any potential increases in business volume will require us to commit additional financial, operational and technical resources before those increases materialize, with no assurance that they actually will. Furthermore, our use of this technology could be challenged by claims that we have infringed upon the patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights of others. In addition, we may not be able to maintain our existing systems, obtain new technologies and systems, or replace or introduce new technologies and systems as quickly as our competitors or in a cost-effective manner. Also, we may fail to achieve the benefits anticipated or required from any new technology or system, or we may be unable to devote financial resources to new technologies and systems in the future. If we experience system interruptions, it may cause us to lose sellers and may harm our business. Our inability to maintain and improve our information technology systems and infrastructure may result in system interruptions. System interruptions and slow delivery times, unreliable service levels, prolonged or frequent service outages, or insufficient capacity may prevent us from efficiently providing services to our sellers, which could result in our losing sellers and revenue. We lease space for our data center and rely on a co-location partner for power, security, connectivity and other services. We also rely on third party providers for bandwidth and content delivery. We do not control these vendors and it would take significant time and effort to replace them. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, website disruptions, outages and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors and capacity constraints. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from terrorist attacks, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, hurricanes, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks or other attempts to harm our systems. If the site is unavailable when sellers attempt to access it or access is slower than a seller expects, sellers may stop visiting our site and become less likely to return, if at all. We expect to continue to make significant investments in our technology infrastructure to maintain and improve all aspects of user experience and site performance. To the extent that our disaster recovery systems are not adequate, or we do not effectively address capacity constraints, upgrade our systems, and continually develop our technology and network architecture to accommodate increasing traffic, our business and operating results may suffer. Our software is highly technical and undetected errors, if any, could adversely affect our business. Our service incorporates software that is highly technical and complex. Our software has contained, and may now or in the future contain, undetected errors, bugs, flaws, corrupted data or vulnerabilities. Some errors in our software code may only be discovered after the code has been released. Any errors, bugs, flaws or corrupted data could result in damage to our reputation, loss of users, or loss of revenue, any of which could adversely affect our business and financial results. Because our networks and IT systems may be vulnerable to unauthorized persons hacking our systems, it could disrupt our operations and result in the theft of our proprietary information. A party who is able to breach the security measures on our networks could misappropriate either our proprietary information or the personal information of our sellers, or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. Hacking of websites is a growing problem. If we grow and obtain more visibility, we may be more vulnerable to hacking. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against such threats or to alleviate problems caused by breaches in security, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and operating results. 19 Our business is subject to a variety of U.S. and other laws, rules and regulations that could subject us to claims or otherwise harm our business. Government regulation of the Internet and e-commerce is evolving and unfavorable changes could substantially harm our business and results of operations. We are subject to a variety of laws in the U.S. and elsewhere that affect advertising, that are costly with which to comply, can result in negative publicity and diversion of management time and effort, and can subject us to claims or other remedies. In addition, the laws relating to the liability of providers of online services are currently unsettled both within the U.S. and elsewhere. Claims can be brought under both U.S. and foreign law for defamation and other tort claims, unlawful activity, copyright, and trademark infringement. The Digital Millennium Copyright Act has provisions that limit, but do not necessarily eliminate, our liability for listing or linking to third-party websites that include materials that infringe copyrights or other rights, so long as we comply with the statutory requirements of this act. The Child Online Protection Act and the Childrens Online Privacy Protection Act restrict the distribution of materials considered harmful to children and impose additional restrictions on the ability of online services to collect information from minors. In the area of data protection, the European Union and many states have passed laws requiring notification to users when there is a security breach for personal data, such as Californias Information Practices Act. We must comply with the Federal Trade Commissions unfair trade practices rules and state consumer protection laws including little unfair trade practice rules. Any failure on our part to comply with these laws, rules and regulations may subject us to additional liabilities. As Internet commerce develops, federal, state and foreign governments may draft and propose new laws to regulate Internet commerce, which may negatively affect our business. As Internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign governments becomes more likely. Our business could be negatively impacted by the application of existing laws and regulations or the enactment of new laws applicable to our business. The cost to comply with such laws or regulations could be significant and would increase our operating expenses. If there is new tax treatment of companies engaged in Internet commerce, it could adversely affect the commercial use of our marketing services and our financial results. Due to the global nature of the Internet, it is possible that governments might attempt to tax our activities. New or revised tax regulations may subject us to additional sales, income and other taxes. New York State, for example, taxes online sales. Recently there has been movement toward Congress permitting states and localities to impose sale taxes on online purchases. In 2013, the United States Senate passed legislation to permit taxation of Internet sales but it stalled in the House of Representatives. We cannot predict the effect of current attempts to impose sales, income or other taxes on commerce over the Internet. New or revised taxes and especially sales taxes would likely increase the cost of doing business online, and increase advertising and marketing costs over the Internet. Any of these events will increase our costs and adversely affect our business and results of operations. If a third party asserts that we are infringing on its intellectual property, whether successful or not, it could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation or require us to obtain expensive licenses, and our business may be adversely affected. The Internet industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks and copyrights and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. A party may assert patent and other intellectual property infringement litigation against us claiming our platform infringes on its patents or otherwise violates its intellectual property rights. Any lawsuit, whether or not successful, could: Divert managements attention; Result in prohibitive costs; Require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all; or As a result, any third-party intellectual property claims against us could increase our expenses and adversely affect our business. In addition, agreements with third parties require us to indemnify them for intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase the cost to us resulting from an adverse ruling on any such claim. Even if we have not infringed any intellectual property rights, we cannot be sure our legal defenses will be successful, and even if we are successful in defending against such claims, our legal defense could require significant financial resources and management time. Finally, if a claimant successfully asserts a claim that our services infringe their proprietary rights, royalty or licensing agreements might not be available on terms we find acceptable, or at all. 20 If we cannot protect our intellectual property rights, we may be unable to compete with competitors developing similar technologies. We regard the protection of our trade secrets and other intellectual property rights as critical to our success. A substantial amount of our processes and technologies is protected by trade secret laws. In order to protect these technologies and processes, we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, licensees, independent contractors and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information, including trade secrets, and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such parties. To the extent that our employees, contractors or other third parties with which we do business use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. Laws regarding trade secret rights in certain markets in which we currently, or in the future, operate may afford little or no protection to our trade secrets. The loss of trade secret protection could make it easier for third parties to compete with our platform by copying functionality. In addition, any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the trade secret and other intellectual property laws may compromise our ability to enforce our trade secret and intellectual property rights. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our business, revenue, reputation and competitive position. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Because the market for our common stock is limited, persons who purchase our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above the purchase price paid for them. Our common stock trades on the OTBQB, which is not liquid. There is currently only a limited public market for our common stock. We cannot assure you that an active public market for our common stock will develop or be sustained in the future. If an active market for our common stock does not develop there may be a substantial decrease in the price of our common stock. Because we are subject to the penny stock rules, brokers cannot generally solicit the purchase of our common stock, which adversely affects its liquidity and market price. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define penny stock to be an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to specific exemptions, including listing on a national securities exchange like NASDAQ. The market price of our common stock on the Bulletin Board is less than $5.00 per share and therefore we are currently considered a penny stock according to SEC rules. This designation requires any broker-dealer selling these securities to disclose certain information concerning the transaction, obtain a written agreement from the purchaser and determine that the purchaser is reasonably suitable to purchase the securities. We will remain subject to the penny stock rules unless our stock price is above $5.00. Due to factors beyond our control, our stock price may be volatile. Any of the following factors could affect the market price of our common stock: Our failure to increase revenue in each succeeding quarter; Our failure to achieve and maintain profitability; Our failure to meet our revenue and earnings guidance or our failure to meet financial analysts performance expectations; The loss of a number of buyers or our failure to attract more buyers; The sale of a large amount of common stock by our shareholders; Our announcement of a pending or completed acquisition or our failure to complete a proposed acquisition; An adverse court ruling or regulatory action; Changes in market valuations of similar companies; Short selling activities; Our announcement of any financing which is dilutive to our shareholders; Our announcement of a change in the direction of our business; or Announcements by us, or our competitors, of significant contracts, acquisitions, commercial relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments. 21 In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a companys securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs and divert our managements time and attention, which would otherwise be used to benefit our business. Because we may not be able to attract the attention of major brokerage firms, it could have a material impact upon the price of our common stock. It is not likely that securities analysts of major brokerage firms will provide research coverage for our common stock since the firm itself cannot recommend the purchase of our common stock under the penny stock rules referenced in an earlier risk factor. The absence of such coverage limits the likelihood that an active market will develop for our common stock. It may also make it more difficult for us to attract new investors at times when we acquire additional capital. If we become subject to a regulatory investigation, it could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner materially adverse to our business. From time to time, we may receive inquiries from regulators regarding our compliance with laws and other matters. For example, in August 2011, the Florida Attorney General, which we refer to as the AG, initiated an official investigation into whether or not we engaged in unfair trade practices in violation of its Little FTC Act. The investigation was due to seller complaints primarily with our former gold business, although some complaints related to our initial cell phone business. In March 2013, we entered into a settlement with the AG in which we agreed to pay the AG $20,000. Responding to or defending other such actions would cause us to incur substantial expenses and divert our managements attention. If we are unsuccessful, we may have to change our policies or practices. Any such change or defense of a regulatory investigation or action could reduce our future revenues and increase our costs and adversely affect our future operating results. Violation of existing or future regulatory orders or consent decrees could subject us to substantial monetary fines and other penalties that could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, it is possible that future orders issued by, or enforcement actions initiated by, regulatory authorities could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner materially adverse to our business. Because our executive officers, directors and two former directors own a significant amount of our common stock and convertible preferred stock, it is likely that they will continue to be able to exert significant control over matters which require shareholder approval including election of directors and the future sale of our business. As of March 26, 2015, our executive officers, directors and two former directors beneficially owned approximately 23% of our outstanding voting stock. Therefore, these shareholders will have the ability to influence us through this ownership position. These shareholders may be able to determine all matters requiring shareholder approval. These shareholders, acting together, may be able to control elections of directors, amendments of our organizational documents, or approval of any merger, sale of assets, or other major corporate transaction. This may prevent or discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or offers for our common stock you may believe are in your best interest as one of our shareholders. We do not expect to pay dividends in the future, which means that investors may not be able to realize the value of their shares except through a sale. We have never, and do not anticipate that we will, declare or pay a cash dividend. We expect to retain future earnings, if any, for our business and do not anticipate paying dividends on common stock at any time in the foreseeable future. Because we do not anticipate paying dividends in the future, the only opportunity for our shareholders to realize the creation of value in our common stock will likely be through a sale of those shares.