Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 2. Properties. We lease approximately 2,100 square feet for our corporate headquarters, sales, marketing, development and customer support divisions located in New York, New York under a lease expiring in August 2018. The Company is not expecting to renew this lease. We lease approximately 21,000 square feet for our warehouse and office located in Edgewood, New York under a lease expiring in September 2021. We believe that our existing facilities are suitable and adequate and that we have sufficient capacity to meet our current anticipated needs. None of these facilities are critical to our operations because suitable alternatives are available in substantially all of the locations where we conduct business. We continuously review our anticipated requirements for facilities and, on the basis of that review, may from time to time acquire or lease additional facilities and/or dispose of existing facilities. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. From time to time, we are periodically a party to or otherwise involved in legal proceedings arising in the normal and ordinary course of business. As of the date of this prospectus, we are not aware of any proceeding, threatened or pending, against us which, if determined adversely, would have a material effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. Not applicable . PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Our common stock is quoted on the OTCQB Markets, Inc. under the symbol USEL. As of March 27, 2018, the last reported sale price of our common stock as reported by the OTCQB Markets was $0.24 per share. As of that date, there were approximately 135 shareholders of record. This number does not include beneficial owners whose shares are held in the names of various securities brokers, dealers and registered clearing agencies. The following table provides the high and low bid price information for our common stock for the periods indicated which reflect inter-dealer prices, without retail mark-up, mark-down or commission and may not necessarily represent actual transactions. Year Quarter Ended Stock Price High Low ($) ($) 2017 December 31 0.60 0.27 September 30 0.80 0.26 June 30 0.85 0.60 March 31 0.88 0.44 2016 December 31 0.98 0.43 September 30 1.20 0.60 June 30 1.15 0.62 March 31 1.25 0.80 5 Dividend Policy We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not plan to pay any such dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to use all available funds to develop our business. We can give no assurances that we will ever have excess funds available to pay dividends. The Company is unable to declare or pay any dividends, without the prior consent of the purchasers agent under the 2017 NPA. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities None Item 6. Selected Financial Data. Not required for smaller reporting companies. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this report on Form 10-K. In addition to historical information, this discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including but not limited to those set forth under Risk Factors. Company Overview uSell.com, Inc. is a large market maker of used smartphones. uSell acquires products from both individual sellers, on its website, uSell.com, and from major carriers, big box retailers, and manufacturers through its subsidiary, We Sell Cellular. The Company maximizes the value of these devices by reclassifying them, adding value to them, and moving them throughout the world to those who want them most. In order to serve its global and highly diverse customer base, uSell leverages both a traditional sales force and an online marketplace where professional buyers of used smartphones can buy inventory on-demand. Through participation on uSells online platform and through interaction with uSells salesforce, buyers can acquire high volumes of inventory in a cost effective manner, while minimizing risk. 2017 Financial Highlights Key financial metrics are as follows: Revenues increased by $10,045,000, or 11%, to $104,702,000 for the year ended December 31, 2017, from $94,657,000 for the year ended December 31, 2016 Operating loss for the year ended December 31, 2017 was $9,954,000 (inclusive of a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $8,449,000), compared to $1,845,000 for the year ended December 31, 2016, a change of $8,109,000 Net loss for the year ended December 31, 2017 was $12,301,000 (inclusive of a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $8,449,000), compared to $3,712,000 for the year ended December 31, 2016 Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure, was $435,000 for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to $592,000 for the year ended December 31, 2016. See Non-GAAP Financial Measure - Adjusted EBITDA below. This report does not contain any information relating to sales managed by uSell on behalf of the Special Purpose Entity (SPE). Therefore, we cannot provide a comparison of Gross Merchandise Volume (GMV), which we had defined in previous quarters as the sum of uSell revenue plus SPE revenue. However, it is important to note that the SPE funded a substantial amount of purchases in 2017 that both our suppliers and customers benefited from. Overview of 2017 Events and Recent Trends 2017 began with a strong first quarter after the launch of the iPhone 7, but as the year progressed the Company was exposed to market challenges. In particular, several events led to a challenging fourth quarter for the industry. Beginning with Apples announcement of a dual iPhone launch in September (the iPhone 8 and X), the market experienced an atypical pricing pattern, followed by a softening of demand caused by disruptions in key global markets. Typically, after an iPhone launch, the industry experiences a significant decrease in pricing, after which a prolonged period of price stability is observed. During this cycle, we experienced a very different dynamic due to the fact that Apples initial launch of the iPhone 8 did not drive the expected amount of demand or trade-ins. The industry thus experienced an inventory shortage immediately after the launch of the iPhone 8, which led to relatively inflated prices through most of the fourth quarter. The iPhone X was not released until November, resulting in substantial volume towards the end of the fourth quarter and into the first quarter. However, during this period the industry also saw disruptions in key global markets that resulted in a softening of global demand and continued price volatility. These events prompted management to take an additional inventory reserve at December 31, 2017, that negatively impacted our results of operations. 6 During the first three months of 2018, we have continued to face substantial challenges resulting from our inventory position and the highly unusual industry events described above. While we believe that the market environment will begin to stabilize in the second quarter, we continue to observe price volatility and weak demand. We expect to report approximately $14 million in revenues for the quarter ended March 31, 2018, as compared to $23.6 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2017 and $27.6 million during the quarter ended March 31, 2017. Despite challenging market conditions, we made substantial progress in 2017 along two fronts: we transitioned the vast majority of our We Sell Cellular business online and we dramatically diversified our supplier base. In the beginning of the fourth quarter we began allowing a subset of our customer base to purchase directly online, eliminating the need for these customers to interact with a sales representative. We subsequently launched additional functionality whereby the platform could manage online negotiations for larger wholesalers seeking to purchase larger quantities and receive volume discounts. These enhancements, along with our previously released auction platform, have enabled us to move the vast majority of our business online. This will enable us to service a much larger customer base while minimizing the marginal cost of serving each additional customer. On the supplier side, we continued to develop a wider net of supplier relationships while deepening our relationships with existing suppliers. We purchased from 13 suppliers in the fourth quarter of 2017, with our largest suppliers share of purchases decreasing to 22% of our purchases, compared to 51% during the same period in 2016. We intend to continue to develop these relationships and to leverage our technology to enable our suppliers to maximize value from their inventory. The recent challenges in the industry have served to further validate the need for a high liquidity platform to enable the seamless distribution of high volumes of devices to smaller resellers that are less affected by global market fluctuations. On the finance side of things, we were able to work with our primary lender to renegotiate our covenant structure, providing the Company with more operating flexibility. We simultaneously raised $3.94 million of equity to support our continued growth. In summary, despite industry-wide challenges towards the end of 2017, we have made substantial progress towards our technological vision. We intend to leverage our platform to create value for both our suppliers and our customers. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements contained herein for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. Critical Accounting Policies In response to financial reporting release FR-60, Cautionary Advice Regarding Disclosure About Critical Accounting Policies, from the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), we have selected our more subjective accounting estimation processes for purposes of explaining the methodology used in calculating the estimate, in addition to the inherent uncertainties pertaining to the estimate and the possible effects on the our financial condition. The accounting estimates are discussed below and involve certain assumptions that if incorrect could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements contained herein for further discussion regarding our critical accounting policies and estimates. Capitalized Technology Costs In accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 350-40, Internal-Use Software, we capitalize certain external and internal computer software costs incurred during the application development stage. The application development stage generally includes software design and configuration, coding, testing and installation activities. Training and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred, while upgrades and enhancements are capitalized if it is probable that such expenditures will result in additional functionality. Capitalized technology costs are amortized over the estimated useful lives of the software assets on a straight-line basis, generally not exceeding three years. Goodwill and Intangible Assets We account for goodwill and intangible assets in accordance with ASC 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other (ASC 350). ASC 350 requires that goodwill and other intangibles with indefinite lives should be tested for impairment annually or on an interim basis if events or circumstances indicate that the fair value of an asset has decreased below its carrying value. We assess goodwill for impairment, as described in Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Goodwill and Intangible Assets, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, on an annual basis or more often if deemed necessary. To determine whether goodwill impairment indicators exist, we are required to assess the fair value of the reporting unit and compare it to the carrying value. A reporting unit is a component of an operating segment for which discrete financial information is available and management regularly reviews its operating performance. 7 As a result of the recurring and projected operating losses, we undertook a review of the carrying amount of our goodwill as of December 31, 2017. We performed our review based on both qualitative and quantitative factors and determined that carrying value of our reporting unit exceeded its implied fair value. Accordingly, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $8,449,000 in our consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2017. Intangible assets represent customer relationships and trade names/trademarks related to We Sell Cellular. Finite lived assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Indefinite lived intangible assets are not amortized, but instead are subject to impairment evaluation. We periodically review the carrying values of our intangible assets and other long-lived assets when events or changes in circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that their carrying values may exceed their fair values, and record an impairment charge when considered necessary. When circumstances indicate that an impairment of value may have occurred, we test such assets for recoverability by comparing the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use of such assets and their eventual disposition to their carrying amounts. If the undiscounted future cash flows are less than the carrying amount of the asset, an impairment loss, measured as the excess of the carrying amount of the asset over its estimated fair value, is recognized. The cash flow estimates used in such calculations are based on estimates and assumptions, using all available information that management believes is reasonable. Fair value, for purposes of calculating impairment, is measured based on estimated future cash flows, discounted at a market rate of interest. Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized when all of the following conditions exist: (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (2) delivery has occurred, (3) the sales price is fixed or determinable, and (4) collectability is reasonably assured. Principal Device Revenue Through our We Sell Cellular subsidiary, we generate revenue from the sales of our cellular telephones and related equipment and recognize revenue FOB shipping point on such sales. Delivery to the customer is deemed to have occurred when the customer takes title to the product. Generally, title passes to the customer when the products leave our warehouse. Payment terms generally require payment once an order is placed. We allow customers to return product within 30 days of shipment if the product is defective. Allowances for product returns are recorded as a reduction of sales at the time revenue is recognized based on historical data. Agent Commission Revenue Sellers on our uSell.com website are shown a larger list of offers directly from third party buyers interested in purchasing their devices. If a seller chooses one of these offers, the seller will ship their device directly to the buyer. The buyer is then responsible for testing the device, servicing the customer, and ultimately paying the seller for the device or returning it. We charge a commission to our buyers only when the seller sends in a device and is successfully paid for it. As such, we recognize Agent Commission Revenue upon payment to the seller. Fulfillment Revenue We offer fulfillment services on behalf of our buyers for the items sold using the Agent Commission Revenue approach outlined above. We act as the agent in these fulfillment services transactions, passing orders booked by our buyers to our third party fulfillment vendor, who then assembles the kits and mails them directly to the sellers. We earn a standard fee from our buyers and recognize revenue upon shipment of the kits to the sellers. We evaluated the presentation of revenue on a gross versus net basis and determined that since we perform as an agent without assuming the risks and rewards of ownership of the goods, revenue should be reported on a net basis. Advertising Revenue Advertising revenues primarily come from payments for text-based sponsored links and display advertisements. Generally, our advertisers pay us on a cost per click, or CPC basis, which means advertisers pay us only when someone clicks on one of their advertisements, or on a cost per thousand impression basis, or CPM. Paying on a CPM basis means that advertisers pay us based on the number of times their advertisements appear on our websites or mobile applications. Advertising revenue is recognized as income when the advertising services are rendered. Share-Based Payment Arrangements We account for stock options in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 718: Compensation - Stock Compensation. ASC 718 requires generally that all equity awards be accounted for at their fair value. This fair value is measured on the grant date for stock-settled awards, and at subsequent exercise or settlement for cash-settled awards. Fair value is equal to the underlying value of the stock for full-value awards such as restricted stock and performance shares, and estimated using an option-pricing model with traditional inputs for appreciation awards such as stock options and stock appreciation rights. 8 Costs equal to these fair values are recognized ratably over the requisite service period based on the number of awards that are expected to vest, or in the period of grant for awards that vest immediately and have no future service condition. For awards that vest over time, cumulative adjustments in later periods are recorded to the extent actual forfeitures differ from our initial estimates: previously recognized compensation cost is reversed if the service or performance conditions are not satisfied and the award is forfeited. The expense resulting from share-based payments is recorded in general and administrative expense. Subsequent modifications to outstanding awards result in incremental cost if the fair value is increased as a result of the modification. Thus, a value-for-value stock option repricing or exchange of awards in conjunction with an equity restructuring does not result in additional compensation cost. Results of Operations Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2017 to the Year Ended December 31, 2016 The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, results of operations information from our unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements: Year Ended December 31, Change Change 2017 2016 (Dollars) (Percentage) Revenue $ 104,702,000 $ 94,657,000 $ 10,045,000 11 % Cost of Revenue 98,878,000 88,835,000 10,043,000 11 % Gross Profit 5,824,000 5,822,000 2,000 0 % Operating Expenses: Sales and Marketing 1,925,000 1,680,000 245,000 15 % General and Administrative 5,404,000 5,987,000 (583,000 ) (10 )% Goodwill impairment charge 8,449,000 8,449,000 100 % Total Operating Expenses 15,778,000 7,667,000 8,111,000 106 % Operating Loss (9,954,000 ) (1,845,000 ) (8,109,000 ) 440 % Other Expense, Net (2,347,000 ) (1,867,000 ) (480,000 ) 26 % Net Loss $ (12,301,000 ) $ (3,712,000 ) $ (8,589,000 ) 231 % Revenue by Type The following table breaks down our revenue by type: Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 Principal Device Revenue $ 104,046,000 99 % $ 94,190,000 100 % Agent Commission Revenue 637,000 1 % 378,000 0 % Other 19,000 0 % 89,000 0 % $ 104,702,000 100 % $ 94,657,000 100 % Principal Device Revenue increased by $9,856,000, or 10%, from $94,190,000 for the year ended December 31, 2016 to $104,046,000 for the year ended December 31, 2017. The increase in our Principal Device revenue was due to our ability to source more devices from our expanded network of suppliers. Agent Commission Revenue increased by $259,000, or 69%, from $378,000 for the year ended December 31, 2016 to $637,000 for the year ended December 31, 2017. The increase in Agent Commission Revenue was due to our decision to shut down our Managed by uSell service at the end of 2016 and no longer take possession of devices sent in through our uSell.com website. Payments for devices sent in through uSell.com are now made directly from buyers to sellers, and we only recognize a commission on these transactions. 9 Due to the fact that devices sourced through We Sell Cellular are bought and sold using the Principal Device Revenue model, we anticipate that the percentage of the Agent Commission Revenue will remain minimal for the foreseeable future, as we continue to increase the volume that we purchase through wholesale channels. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue increased by $10,043,000, or 11% from $88,835,000 for the year ended December 31, 2016 to $98,878,000 for the year ended December 31, 2017. As noted above, our revenue for this period increased by 11%, which caused a corresponding increase in our cost of revenue. Gross profit decreased to 5.6% for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to 6.2% for the year ended December 31, 2016. Our margins decreased as a result of industry conditions, dictated by supply and demand. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expense increased $245,000, or 15%, from $1,680,000 during the year ended December 31, 2016 to $1,925,000 during the year ended December 31, 2017. The increase is primarily attributable to the higher fees paid as a result of the increased eBay sales during the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. With the We Sell Cellular acquisition and our newfound ability to source devices directly from the carriers, retailers, and manufacturers, our primary sales and marketing expenses have shifted from consumer marketing to paying out sales commissions and selling fees. Because the vast majority of our sales and marketing expenses are now paid to third party selling platforms, such as eBay and Amazon, any increases or decreases in these expenses are directly tied to sales for the period. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses include professional fees for technology, legal and accounting services as well as consulting and internal personnel costs for our back office support functions. General and administrative expenses are impacted by non-cash compensation expense pertaining to stock grants and option grants for services. Non-cash compensation expense amounted to $504,000 and $525,000 for the year ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Excluding non-cash compensation expense, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2017 decreased by $561,000, or 10%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. The decrease is mainly the result of the decrease in amortization expense resulting from the full amortization of certain intangible assets acquired in connection with the We Sell Cellular acquisition. In addition, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2016 include a loss on the disposal of assets in the amount of $112,000, for which such amount is not included in the year ended December 31, 2017. Goodwill impairment charge As a result of the recurring and projected operating losses, we undertook a review of the carrying amount of our goodwill as of December 31, 2017. Accordingly, we recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $8,449,000 for the year ended December 31, 2017. No goodwill impairment charge was recorded during the year ended December 31, 2016. Other Income (Expense) Other expense during the year ended December 31, 2017 is comprised of ($2,347,000) of interest expense consisting primarily of $996,000 attributable to the amortization of the remaining debt issue costs on the terminated BAM Note Purchase Agreement entered into in October 2015 (BAM Facility) in connection with the We Sell Cellular acquisition, as well as the contractual interest expense and amortization of debt issue costs on the January 2017 Note Purchase Agreement (NPA). Other expense during the year ended December 31, 2016 is comprised of ($1,497,000) of interest expense primarily attributable to the BAM Facility and $370,000 related to the change in the fair value of the Placement Rights derivative liability. On July 27, 2016, we entered into an agreement with the Tepfers pursuant to which, effective July 1, 2016, the Tepfers agreed to waive the Placement Rights granted to them in connection with the We Sell Cellular acquisition. Accordingly, the derivative liability pertaining to the Placement Rights was eliminated with a corresponding credit to additional paid in capital. Non-GAAP Financial Measure - Adjusted EBITDA We make reference to Adjusted EBITDA, which is a measure of financial performance not calculated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a companys performance, financial position or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally included or excluded in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. 10 This non-GAAP measure is not in accordance with, or an alternative to, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. In addition, this non-GAAP measure is not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. Non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with our results of operations as determined in accordance with GAAP. This measure should only be used to evaluate our results of operations in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures. Reconciliations of Adjusted EBITDA to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, net loss, to the extent available without unreasonable effort, are set forth below. The Company defines Adjusted EBITDA as loss from operations before the items noted in the table below. Management believes Adjusted EBITDA provides a meaningful representation of our operating performance that provides useful information to investors regarding our financial condition and results of operations. Adjusted EBITDA is commonly used by financial analysts and others to measure operating performance. Furthermore, management believes that this non-GAAP financial measure may provide investors with additional meaningful comparisons between current results and results of prior periods as they are expected to be reflective of our core ongoing business. However, while we consider Adjusted EBITDA to be an important measure of operating performance, Adjusted EBITDA and other non-GAAP financial measures have limitations, and investors should not consider them in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Further, Adjusted EBITDA, as we define it, may not be comparable to EBITDA, or similarly titled measures, as defined by other companies. The following table presents Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure, and provides a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to the directly comparable GAAP measure reported in the Companys consolidated financial statements: Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 Net loss $ (12,301,000 ) $ (3,712,000 ) Stock-based compensation expense 504,000 525,000 Goodwill impairment charge 8,449,000 Depreciation and amortization 1,436,000 1,912,000 Interest expense 2,347,000 1,497,000 Change in fair value of derivative liability 370,000 Adjusted EBITDA $ 435,000 $ 592,000 Liquidity and Capital Resources We do not yet have a sustained history of financial stability and may continue to generate operating losses for the foreseeable future. Since the acquisition of We Sell Cellular, we have relied on institutional debt to provide our working capital and complete the We Sell Cellular acquisition. Prior to the acquisition, our principal source of liquidity had been the issuances of convertible debt and equity securities (including to related parties), including preferred stock, common stock and various debt financing transactions. These conditions raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern through March 2019. Management plans to address this uncertainty through further implementation of its business plan or by continuing to raise funds through debt and/or equity. There can be no assurances that the plans and actions proposed by management will be successful or that unforeseen circumstances will not require additional funding sources in the future or effectuate plans to conserve liquidity. Future efforts to raise additional funds may not be successful or they may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our cash flow has been significantly impacted by the We Sell Cellular acquisition. On January 13, 2017, we entered into the NPA with a lender pursuant to which we issued the lender a secured term note in the principal amount of $8,660,000 at an original issue discount of 1%, for gross proceeds of $8,572,400. We applied the proceeds received upon the issuance of the NPA to repay all amounts outstanding under the BAM Facility. The NPA requires repayment of principal in January 2020 and bears interest at an annual rate of 15.00%, which interest is due and payable monthly in arrears. In addition, the lender from whom the Company borrowed the funds under the 2017 NPA, established an SPE with the Company. Under the SPE, the lender provided $5 million of equity capital to purchase smartphones and similar inventory. The Company entered into a Services Agreement with the SPE and will provide all necessary services including inventory management. The Company will receive a percentage of the SPEs profits, if any. As of the date of this Annual Report, we have not received any distributions from the SPE. As a result of the downturn in our business relating in part to the disruptions in key global markets, as of the filing date of this report, we believe that we may not meet one of the financial covenants under the 2017 NPA and therefore may be in default under the agreement for the quarter ended March 31, 2018. We will seek a waiver from the lender but we can provide no assurances that they will provide one. The Company believes it will be able to obtain a waiver from the Lender. However, if the lender does not waive the potential default and we are unable to obtain replacement financing, the lender will be able to foreclose on all of our assets and we will have to cease operations. Additionally, as mentioned on page 7, we expect to report $14 million in revenue for the first quarter of 2018. If our revenues do not rebound as we anticipate, our liquidity will be harmed and we may need to limit our operations. 11 In November 2017, the Company raised $3,940,000 from the sale of 7,880,000 shares of common stock at $0.50 per share in a private placement offering to certain accredited investors, including the Companys Chief Executive Officer and one of the Companys largest shareholders. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Operating activities used $4,753,000 of cash during the year ended December 31, 2017, a decrease from $409,000 of cash used in operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2016. Our net loss during the year ended December 31, 2017 of $12,301,000 was offset by a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $8,449,000, $1,436,000 of depreciation and amortization, $504,000 of stock-based compensation, and $1,102,000 of amortization of debt issue costs related to our NPA. Changes in operating assets and liabilities used $3,942,000 of cash during the year ended December 31, 2017. Operating activities used $409,000 of cash during the year ended December 31, 2016. Our net loss during the year ended December 31, 2016 of $3,712,000 was offset by $1,912,000 of depreciation and amortization, $370,000 due to the change in the fair value of the Placement Rights derivative liability, $525,000 of stock-based compensation, $479,000 of amortization of debt issue costs related to the terminated BAM Facility and $112,000 from the loss on the disposal of property and equipment. Changes in operating assets and liabilities used $94,000 of cash during the year ended December 30, 2016. Cash Flows from Investing Activities During the year ended December 31, 2017, we capitalized $536,000 of website development costs, we purchased $40,000 of property and equipment and our restricted cash account decreased by $40,000 as a result of our requirement under the NPA to maintain a dedicated bank account controlled by the agent of our lender. During the year ended December 31, 2016, we capitalized $596,000 of website development costs, we purchased $94,000 of property and equipment in connection with our move to our new warehouse location, and our restricted cash account increased by $181,000. Cash Flows from Financing Activities During the year ended December 31, 2017, we received $8,572,000 in proceeds under our NPA and paid $333,000 in costs associated with the NPA. We also received $3,940,000 in proceeds from our private placement offering and paid $64,000 of associated with the offering. In addition, we repaid $8,080,000 of principal under the BAM Facility and made payments of $13,000 under our capital lease obligations. During the year ended December 31, 2016, we received $2,000,000 in proceeds under our BAM Facility and paid $100,000 in costs associated with the BAM Facility. Related Party Transactions None. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements This report includes forward-looking statements including statements regarding liquidity, anticipated revenues and whether our lender will waive a covenant default and changes to the market in the second quarter. The words believe, may, estimate, continue, anticipate, intend, should, plan, could, target, potential, is likely, will, expect and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. We have based these forward-looking statements largely on our current expectations and projections about future events and financial trends that we believe may affect our financial condition, results of operations, business strategy and financial needs. The results anticipated by any or all of these forward-looking statements might not occur. Important factors, uncertainties and risks that may cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are contained in the Risk Factors that follow. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as the result of new information, future events or otherwise. For more information regarding some of the ongoing risks and uncertainties of our business, see the Risk Factors and our other filings with the SEC. 12 RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following Risk Factors before deciding whether to purchase or sell securities of uSell. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations or our financial condition. If any of the events discussed in the Risk Factors below occur, our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, the value and marketability of the common stock could decline. Risks Relating to Our Business Our independent registered public accounting firms report contains an explanatory paragraph that expresses substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. As of December 31, 2017, we had $391,000 in cash and cash equivalents, working capital of $764,000 and an accumulated deficit of $70,688,000. In addition, we generated a net loss of $12,301,000 (inclusive of a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $8,449,000) for the year ended December 31, 2017 and 3,712,000 for the year ended December 31, 2016. Further, we do not yet have a history of financial stability and may continue to generate operating losses for the foreseeable future. These factors, among others, raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The financial statements contained elsewhere in this report do not include any adjustments that might result from our inability to continue as a going concern. If our working relationship with our new lender is not successful, we will lack the capital to sustain and grow our business and our future results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. In January 2017, we entered into a Note Purchase Agreement (the 2017 NPA) with a new lender to whom we issued a secured term note in the principal amount of approximately $8.6 million (the 2017 Note) and who acts as the Manager of the Special Purpose Entity (the SPE). See page 11 for a description of this 2017 Note and the SPE. As long as our working relationship with this entity is positive, we believe that we have sufficient capital to operate our business as we did in 2017 and 2016 and grow it through the SPE. In fact, we have entered into two amendments to the 2017 NPA. However, if we encounter issues working with this lender, it could adversely affect our results of operations and future financial condition. In that event, we would have to refinance our loan and possibly issue equity and/or debt securities. If we are not successful in obtaining a refinancing on our loan or raising capital in order to repay this loan, we may have to cease operations. If we are unable to obtain a waiver for failing to meet a financial covenant under the 2017 NPA, we may sustain material adverse consequences, including the possibility of the lender declaring a default. As is customary with institutional loan agreements, our loan agreement requires us to meet future a number of financial covenants. As mentioned above, we may not meet a financial covenant as of the quarter ended March 31 2018, and unless our lender waives this potential default or we are unable to obtain replacement financing, the lender will have the ability to foreclose on all of our assets and we will have to cease operations. If this were to occur, your investment would be lost. Although we are responsible for all of the costs of the SPE, we may incur material losses if it is not profitable and we do not receive material distributions. Under the terms of the operative documents relating to the SPE, we are responsible for all costs other than acquisition of inventory and certain other expenses for which we are reimbursed. Although we have a profits interest in the SPE, we are incurring material costs and may never receive distributions of profits at all or if we do sufficient to cover our costs including personnel costs. If we pay too much or do not offer a sufficient amount to our suppliers for phones, our revenues will be adversely affected. We Sell Cellular primarily engages in the wholesale acquisition and resale of smartphones and related devices from carriers and big box stores. The We Sell Cellular business is reliant on its ability to purchase phones at low prices which result in profitability on liquidation. Conversely, if the prices that We Sell Cellular offers suppliers for the phones are too low, than we will be unsuccessful at obtaining the phones and our revenues will be adversely affected. 13 Because of disruptions in certain foreign markets, the market and prices for used smartphones has eroded over the last four months and we cannot predict when or if the market will turn. Our business has suffered over the last four months as the result of unanticipated disruptions in key foreign markets. We cannot product when or if these markets will recover. Because a meaningful portion of the global demand comes from outside of the United States, until global markets recover, our revenue will likely be reduced and our operating loss higher. Because we rely on a few key suppliers, if these suppliers reduce their sales to us, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We Sell Cellulars business has been characterized by a high degree of supplier concentration. In 2016 and 2015, We Sell Cellular purchased approximately 72% and 94%, respectively, of its inventory from one supplier. For the year ended December 31, 2017, our largest suppliers share of our purchases decreased to 47%. This number was further reduced to 22% by the fourth quarter of 2017. Despite these reductions, our business is still characterized by a high degree of supplier concentration, as the bulk of supply in the industry is concentrated with a handful of vendors. We cannot assure you that our suppliers will continue to provide us with phones at a cost effective rate for any reason. In the event that our relationship with any of our suppliers is terminated or the number of phones supplied to We Sell Cellular from our suppliers is reduced, our revenues and profitability would be adversely affected. If one or more of our suppliers change their credit terms, we may lack the liquidity to order smartphones even where we have favorable pricing opportunities, which could materially and adversely affect our future revenues and our financial condition. We rely upon credit terms from our suppliers in addition to borrowing under our line of credit with our lender. Because certain suppliers ship smartphones on favorable credit terms, these terms provide an additional credit source for us to purchase smartphones. If one or more change their credit terms, it could reduce our ability buy inventory. If this were to occur, it could materially and adversely affect our future revenues and our financial condition. If we cannot manage our growth effectively, we may not become profitable. Businesses which grow rapidly often have difficulty managing their growth. If we continue to grow as rapidly as we anticipate, we will need to expand our management by recruiting and employing experienced executives and key employees capable of providing the necessary support. We cannot assure you that our management will be able to manage our growth effectively or successfully. Our failure to meet these challenges could cause us to lose money, and your investment could be lost. If we fail to retain our key personnel, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth and our business could suffer. Our future depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel and the continued contributions of our executive officers including Nikhil Raman, uSells Chief Executive Officer, Brian Tepfer, an Executive Vice President of uSell and We Sell Cellulars Chief Executive Officer and Scott Tepfer, an Executive Vice President of uSell and We Sell Cellulars President, each of whom may be difficult to replace. The loss of the services of any of these officers and the process to replace any key personnel would involve significant time and expense and may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. Because we rely on the continuing rapid pace of technological development in the smartphone and tablet industries, if innovation in these industries were to decrease or providers were to extend the upgrade cycles on phones, our future results of operation will be adversely affected. We believe that one of the driving factors for the potential success of our business is the continued improvements and developments in the smartphone industry as well as the continued reduction in the amount of time consumers have to wait to upgrade their phones with no penalties. Because consumers have in the past expressed a continual need to have the latest generation phones and iPads or other tablets, the opportunity for liquidating these huge quantities of depreciating assets in a profitable yet efficient manner is very promising. If innovation in smartphone or tablet device technology were to level off, the upgrade cycles were to be extended or there were fewer new phone launches, the purchase of new phones and tablets could be diminished, reducing the demand for used electronics and consequently the wholesale market for them. In such an event, our results of operations would suffer and we may not be able to continue operations. Because we rely on information technology to operate our businesses and maintain our competitiveness, any failure to adapt to technological developments or industry trends could harm our business. We depend upon the use of sophisticated information technology, including software. As our operations grow in both size and scope, we must continuously improve and upgrade our systems including our hardware and infrastructure to offer our enhanced products, services, features and functionality, while maintaining the reliability and integrity of our systems and infrastructure. Our future success also depends on our ability to adapt our services and infrastructure to meet rapidly evolving industry standards while continuing to improve the performance, features and reliability of our service in response to competitive service and product offerings and the changing demands of the marketplace. In particular, expanding our systems and infrastructure to meet any potential increases in business volume will require us to commit additional financial, operational and technical resources before those increases materialize, with no assurance that they actually will. Furthermore, our use of this technology could be challenged by claims that we have infringed upon the patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights of others. 14 In addition, we may not be able to maintain our existing systems, obtain new technologies and systems, or replace or introduce new technologies and systems as quickly as our competitors or in a cost-effective manner. Also, we may fail to achieve the benefits anticipated or required from any new technology or system, or we may be unable to devote financial resources to new technologies and systems in the future. If we experience system interruptions, it may cause us to lose customers and may harm our business. Our inability to maintain and improve our information technology systems and infrastructure may result in system interruptions. System interruptions and slow delivery times, unreliable service levels, prolonged or frequent service outages, or insufficient capacity may prevent us from efficiently providing services to the buyers and/or customers on our website, which could result in our losing customers and revenue We lease space for our data center and rely on a co-location partner for power, security, connectivity and other services. We also rely on third party providers for bandwidth and content delivery. We do not control these vendors and it would take significant time and effort to replace them. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, website disruptions, outages and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors and capacity constraints. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from terrorist attacks, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, hurricanes, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks or other attempts to harm our systems. If the site is unavailable when customers attempt to access it or access is slower than a customer expects, customers may stop visiting our site and become less likely to return, if at all. We expect to continue to make significant investments in our technology infrastructure to maintain and improve all aspects of user experience and site performance. To the extent that our disaster recovery systems are not adequate, or we do not effectively address capacity constraints, upgrade our systems, and continually develop our technology and network architecture to accommodate increasing traffic, our business and operating results may suffer. Our software is highly technical and undetected errors, if any, could adversely affect our business. Our service incorporates software that is highly technical and complex. Our software has contained, and may now or in the future contain, undetected errors, bugs, flaws, corrupted data or vulnerabilities. Some errors in our software code may only be discovered after the code has been released. Any errors, bugs, flaws or corrupted data could result in damage to our reputation, loss of users, or loss of revenue, any of which could adversely affect our business and financial results. Because our networks and IT systems may be vulnerable to unauthorized persons hacking our systems, it could disrupt our operations and result in the theft of our proprietary information. A party who is able to breach the security measures on our networks could misappropriate either our proprietary information or the personal information provided by participants on our website, or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. Hacking of websites is a growing problem. If we grow and obtain more visibility, we may be more vulnerable to hacking. Although we have insurance to cover losses in the event we are hacked, our coverage may be less than our losses. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against such threats or to alleviate problems caused by breaches in security, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and operating results. Our business is subject to a variety of U.S. and other laws, rules and regulations that could subject us to claims or otherwise harm our business. Government regulation of the Internet and e-commerce is evolving and unfavorable changes could substantially harm our business and results of operations. We are subject to a variety of laws in the U.S. and elsewhere that affect advertising, that are costly with which to comply, can result in negative publicity and diversion of management time and effort, and can subject us to claims or other remedies. In addition, the laws relating to the liability of providers of online services are currently unsettled both within the U.S. and elsewhere. Claims can be brought under both U.S. and foreign law for defamation and other tort claims, unlawful activity, copyright, and trademark infringement. The Digital Millennium Copyright Act has provisions that limit, but do not necessarily eliminate, our liability for listing or linking to third-party websites that include materials that infringe copyrights or other rights, so long as we comply with the statutory requirements of this act. The Child Online Protection Act and the Childrens Online Privacy Protection Act restrict the distribution of materials considered harmful to children and impose additional restrictions on the ability of online services to collect information from minors. In the area of data protection, the European Union and many states have passed laws requiring notification to users when there is a security breach for personal data, such as Californias Information Practices Act. We must comply with the Federal Trade Commissions unfair trade practices rules and state consumer protection laws including little unfair trade practice rules. Any failure on our part to comply with these laws, rules and regulations may subject us to additional liabilities. 15 As Internet commerce develops, federal, state and foreign governments may draft and propose new laws to regulate Internet commerce, which may negatively affect our business. As Internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign governments becomes more likely. Our business could be negatively impacted by the application of existing laws and regulations or the enactment of new laws applicable to our business. The cost to comply with such laws or regulations could be significant and would increase our operating expenses. If there is new tax treatment of companies engaged in Internet commerce, it could adversely affect the commercial use of our services and our financial results. Due to the global nature of the Internet, it is possible that governments might attempt to tax our activities. New or revised tax regulations may subject us to additional sales, income and other taxes. New York State, for example, taxes online sales. Recently there has been movement toward Congress permitting states and localities to impose sale taxes on online purchases. Recently, the United States Senate passed legislation to permit taxation of Internet sales but it stalled in the House of Representatives. We cannot predict the effect of current attempts to impose sales, income or other taxes on commerce over the Internet. New or revised taxes and especially sales taxes would likely increase the cost of doing business online, and increase the cost of doing business over the Internet. Any of these events will increase our costs and adversely affect our business and results of operations. If a third party asserts that we are infringing on its intellectual property, whether successful or not, it could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation or require us to obtain expensive licenses, and our business may be adversely affected. The Internet industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks and copyrights and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. A party may assert patent and other intellectual property infringement litigation against us claiming our platform infringes on its patents or otherwise violates its intellectual property rights. Any lawsuit, whether or not successful, could: Divert managements attention; Result in prohibitive costs; Require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all As a result, any third-party intellectual property claims against us could increase our expenses and adversely affect our business. In addition, agreements with third parties require us to indemnify them for intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase the cost to us resulting from an adverse ruling on any such claim. Even if we have not infringed any intellectual property rights, we cannot be sure our legal defenses will be successful, and even if we are successful in defending against such claims, our legal defense could require significant financial resources and management time. Finally, if a claimant successfully asserts a claim that our services infringe their proprietary rights, royalty or licensing agreements might not be available on terms we find acceptable, or at all. If we cannot protect our intellectual property rights, we may be unable to compete with competitors developing similar technologies. We regard the protection of our trade secrets and other intellectual property rights as critical to our success. A substantial amount of our processes and technologies is protected by trade secret laws. In order to protect these technologies and processes, we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, licensees, independent contractors and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information, including trade secrets, and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such parties. To the extent that our employees, contractors or other third parties with which we do business use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. Laws regarding trade secret rights in certain markets in which we currently, or in the future, operate may afford little or no protection to our trade secrets. The loss of trade secret protection could make it easier for third parties to compete with our platform by copying functionality. In addition, any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the trade secret and other intellectual property laws may compromise our ability to enforce our trade secret and intellectual property rights. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our business, revenue, reputation and competitive position. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Because the market for our common stock is limited, persons who purchase our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above the purchase price paid for them. Our common stock trades on the OTCQB, which is not a liquid market. There is currently only a limited public market for our common stock. We cannot assure you that an active public market for our common stock will develop or be sustained in the future. If an active market for our common stock does not develop there may be a substantial decrease in the price of our common stock. 16 Due to factors beyond our control, our stock price may be volatile. Any of the following factors could affect the market price of our common stock: Our failure to increase revenue in each succeeding quarter; Our failure to achieve and maintain profitability; Our failure to meet our revenue and earnings guidance or our failure to meet financial analysts performance expectations; The loss of a number of suppliers (see risk factor on page 5) or our failure to attract more suppliers; The loss of a number of buyers or our failure to attract more buyers; The sale of a large amount of common stock by our shareholders; Our announcement of a pending or completed acquisition or our failure to complete a proposed acquisition; An adverse court ruling or regulatory action; Changes in market valuations of similar companies; Short selling activities; Our announcement of any financing which is dilutive to our shareholders; Our announcement of a change in the direction of our business; or Announcements by us, or our competitors, of significant contracts, acquisitions, commercial relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a companys securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs and divert our managements time and attention, which would otherwise be used to benefit our business. Because we may not be able to attract the attention of major brokerage firms, it could have a material impact upon the price of our common stock. It is not likely that securities analysts of major brokerage firms will provide research coverage for our common stock since there is little incentive to brokerage firms to recommend the purchase of our common stock. The absence of such coverage limits the likelihood that an active market will develop for our common stock. It may also make it more difficult for us to attract new investors at times when we acquire additional capital. If we become subject to a regulatory investigation, it could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner materially adverse to our business. From time to time, we may receive inquiries from regulators regarding our compliance with laws and other matters. Responding to or defending other such actions would cause us to incur substantial expenses and divert our managements attention. If we are unsuccessful, we may have to change our policies or practices. Any such change or defense of a regulatory investigation or action could reduce our future revenues and increase our costs and adversely affect our future operating results. Violation of existing or future regulatory orders or consent decrees could subject us to substantial monetary fines and other penalties that could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, it is possible that future orders issued by, or enforcement actions initiated by, regulatory authorities could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner materially adverse to our business. Because our executive officers and directors beneficially own a significant amount of our common stock, it is likely that they may continue to be able to exert significant control over matters which require shareholder approval including election of directors and the future sale of our business. As of March 30, 2018, our executive officers and directors beneficially owned approximately 32% of our outstanding common stock. Therefore, these shareholders will have the ability to influence us through this ownership position. These shareholders may be able to determine all matters requiring shareholder approval and, acting together, may be able to control elections of directors, amendments of our organizational documents, or approval of any merger, sale of assets, or other major corporate transaction. This may prevent or discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or offers for our common stock you may believe are in your best interest as one of our shareholders. We do not expect to pay dividends in the future, which means that investors may not be able to realize the value of their shares except through a sale. We have never, and do not anticipate that we will, declare or pay a cash dividend. Without the lenders agents consent, we are precluded from declaring or paying out dividends under the 2017 NPA. We expect to retain future earnings, if any, for our business and do not anticipate paying dividends on common stock at any time in the foreseeable future. Because we do not anticipate paying dividends in the future, the only opportunity for our shareholders to realize the creation of value in our common stock will likely be through a sale of those shares. 17