Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before making a decision to invest in our common stock. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, or prospects could also be harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be adversely affected. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. SUMMARY OF RISK FACTORS The material risks that may affect our business, financial condition or results of operations include, but are not limited to, those relating to the following: We experienced rapid growth in the past and have a relatively limited operating history, which may result in increased risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties, and makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects. Our revenue growth rate and financial performance in prior years may not be indicative of future performance. Our business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by economic conditions and other factors that we cannot control. If we are unable to maintain diverse and robust loan funding programs with institutional investors, our growth prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If our existing lending partners cease or limit operations with us or if we are unable to attract and onboard new lending partners, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. We have incurred net losses, and we may not be able to achieve profitability in the future. Our quarterly results are likely to fluctuate and as a result may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. If we are unable to continue to improve our AI models or if our AI models contain errors or are otherwise ineffective, our growth prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Our AI models have not yet been extensively tested during down-cycle economic conditions. If our AI models do not, or are perceived not to, accurately reflect a borrowers credit risk in such economic conditions, the performance of Upstart-powered loans may be worse than anticipated. Our securitizations, whole loan sales and warehouse credit facilities expose us to certain risks, and we can provide no assurance that we will be able to access the securitization markets, continue our whole loan sales, renew our existing warehouse credit facilities or obtain new warehouse credit facilities in the future. This may result in the reduced supply of loan funding capital or require us to seek more costly financing for our marketplace. Cross River Bank and one other lending partner account for a substantial portion of the total number of loans facilitated by our platform and our revenue. The sales and onboarding process of new lending partners could take longer than expected, leading to fluctuations or variability in expected revenues and results of operations. The COVID-19 pandemic has harmed our business, financial condition and results of operations and the duration and extent to which it will impact our future results of operations and overall financial performance remains uncertain. 26 Table of Contents Our business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations, many of which are evolving, and failure or perceived failure to comply with such laws and regulations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Substantially all of our revenue is derived from a single loan product, and we are thus particularly susceptible to fluctuations in the unsecured personal loan market. We also do not currently offer a broad suite of products that lending partners may find desirable. We are continuing to introduce and develop new loan products and services offerings, and if these products are not successful or we are unable to manage the related risks, our growth prospects, business, financial, condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our reputation and brand are important to our success, and if we are unable to continue developing our reputation and brand, our ability to retain existing and attract new lending partners, our ability to attract borrowers to our platform, our ability to maintain a diverse funding marketplace and our ability to maintain and improve our relationship with regulators of our industry could be adversely affected. We may fail to achieve the expected cost savings and related benefits from our reduction in workforce initiated in November 2022 and January 2023. We rely on strategic relationships with loan aggregators to attract applicants to our platform, and if we cannot maintain effective relationships with loan aggregators or successfully replace their services, or if loan aggregators begin offering competing products, our business could be adversely affected. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY We experienced rapid growth in the past and have a relatively limited operating history, which may result in increased risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties, and makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects. We were founded in 2012 and have experienced rapid growth in the past. Our limited operating history may make it difficult to make accurate predictions about our future performance. Assessing our business and future prospects may also be difficult because of the risks and difficulties we face. These risks and difficulties include our ability to: improve the effectiveness and predictiveness of our AI models; maintain and increase the volume of loans facilitated through our AI lending marketplace; enter into new and maintain existing lending partnerships; successfully maintain a diversified loan funding strategy, including lending partnerships, whole loan sales and securitization transactions that enhance loan liquidity for the lending partners that use our marketplace, and long-term committed capital sources; successfully fund a sufficient quantity of our borrower loan demand with low cost lending partner funding to help keep interest rates offered to borrowers competitive; maintain competitive interest rates offered to borrowers on our platform, while enabling our lending partners and institutional investors to achieve an adequate return over their cost of funds, whether through their own balance sheets or through our loan funding programs; successfully build our brand and protect our reputation from negative publicity; increase the effectiveness of our marketing strategies, including our direct consumer marketing initiatives; continue to expand the number of potential borrowers; 27 Table of Contents successfully adjust our proprietary AI models, products and services in a timely manner in response to changing macroeconomic conditions and fluctuations in the credit market; comply with and successfully adapt to complex and evolving regulatory environments; protect against increasingly sophisticated fraudulent borrowing and online theft; successfully compete with companies that are currently in, or may in the future enter, the business of providing online lending services to financial institutions or consumer financial services to borrowers; enter into new markets and introduce new products and services; effectively secure and maintain the confidentiality of the information received, accessed, stored, provided and used across our systems; successfully obtain and maintain corporate funding and liquidity to support growth and for general corporate purposes; realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions of or investments in complementary businesses and technologies; attract, integrate and retain qualified employees; successfully implement the reductions in workforce and achieve the anticipated cost reductions; and effectively manage and expand the capabilities of our operations teams, outsourcing relationships and other business operations. If we are not able to timely and effectively address these risks and difficulties as well as those described elsewhere in this Risk Factors section, our business and results of operations may be harmed. Our revenue growth rate and financial performance in prior years may not be indicative of future performance. We grew rapidly in the past, and our historical revenue growth rate and financial performance may not be indicative of our future performance. Our revenue for any previous quarterly or annual periods should not be relied upon as any indication of our revenue or revenue growth in future periods. In fact, our revenue declined during the year ended December 31, 2022. Our revenue may continue to decline in future periods for a number of reasons, which may include: adverse macroeconomic conditions, changing interest rates, slowing demand for or reduced funding through our lending marketplace offerings and services, sales of loans held on our balance sheet at a loss, increasing competition, credit market volatility, increasing regulatory costs and challenges and our failure to capitalize on growth opportunities. We believe our growth in the past has been driven in large part by our AI models and our continued improvements to our AI models. Future incremental improvements to our AI models may not lead to the same level of growth as in past periods. In addition, we believe our past growth was driven in part by our ability to rapidly streamline and automate the loan application and origination process on our platform. We expect the Percentage of Loans Fully Automated to level off and remain relatively stable in the long term; however, the expansion of our loan offerings beyond unsecured personal loans, such as auto loans, may cause fluctuations of such percentage from period to period depending on the loan offering mix. As a result of these factors, our revenue growth rates may further decline, and our financial performance may continue to be adversely affected. Our business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by economic conditions and other factors that we cannot control. Uncertainty and negative trends in general economic conditions, including significant tightening of credit markets and periods of rising and/or high interest rates, historically have created a difficult operating environment for our industry. Many factors, including factors that are beyond our control, may impact our business, financial condition and results of operations by affecting the supply of capital by our lending partners and institutional investors to fund loans or the demand by borrowers to incur loan obligations or their ability or willingness to repay 28 Table of Contents their loans. These factors include, but are not limited to, interest rates, inflation, unemployment levels, personal savings rates, lower consumer confidence, conditions in the housing market, immigration policies, gas prices, energy costs, government shutdowns, trade wars and delays in tax refunds, as well as events such as natural disasters, acts of war (including the recent Russia-Ukraine conflict), terrorism, catastrophes and pandemics. The United States has recently experienced historically high levels of inflation. According to the U.S. Department of Labor, the annual inflation rate for the United States was approximately 6.5% for December 2022. In response to high levels of inflation and recession fears, the U.S. Federal Reserve has raised, and may continue to raise, interest rates and implement fiscal policy interventions. Even if these interventions lower inflation, they may also reduce economic growth rates, create a recession and increase unemployment rates. Continuing economic uncertainty and the magnitude and duration of the resulting fluctuations in business activity cannot currently be estimated and has had several effects on our business and results of operations, including, among other things: a reduction in the availability of loan funding and liquidity from institutional investors and the capital markets; lower acceptance rates from borrowers; reductions in workforce; decreases in origination volumes on our platform; increases in the use of our balance sheet to fund Upstart-powered loans; and the potential for increased delinquencies and default rates for new and existing Upstart-powered loans. During periods of economic slowdown or recession, our current and potential institutional investors in our loan funding programs have reduced and may continue to reduce the number of loans or interest in loans they purchase or demand terms that are less favorable to us to compensate for any increased risks. For example, increasing interest rates caused, and may in the future cause, our lending partners and institutional investors in our loan funding programs to limit the amount of funding they wanted to provide on our platform for loans to borrowers, which reduced the volume of Upstart-powered loans we completed and therefore negatively impacted our revenue. In response to this constrained loan funding, we have increased, and may continue to increase, the use of our balance sheet to fund loans originated through our platform. This increase in the use of our balance sheet has diverted capital resources, increased our exposure to the changes in the fair value of such loans, and could result in losses if such loans held on our balance sheet default or we sell those loans at a loss. A further reduction in the volume of the loans and loan financing products we sell would negatively impact our ability to maintain or increase the number of loans facilitated through our marketplace. Furthermore, many new consumers on the Upstart platform have poor, limited or no credit history. Accordingly, such borrowers have historically been, and may in the future be, disproportionately affected by adverse macroeconomic conditions, such as the disruption and uncertainty caused by the COVID-19 pandemic or a recession. For example, nearly all personal loans presently facilitated through our platform are issued with fixed interest rates. As interest rates rise, potential borrowers could seek to defer loans as they wait for interest rates to stabilize. As a result of these circumstances, borrowers may be discouraged from engaging with our platform and as a result, reduce the volume of Upstart-powered loans. Additionally, increased interest rates may adversely impact the spending levels of individual borrowers and their ability and willingness to borrow money. Higher interest rates often lead to higher payment obligations, which may reduce the ability of individual borrowers to remain current on their obligations and therefore, lead to increased delinquencies, defaults, customer bankruptcies and charge-offs, and decreasing recoveries, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, major medical expenses, unemployment, divorce, death or other issues that affect borrowers could affect a borrowers willingness or ability to make payments on their loans. Recently, default rates on loans facilitated through our marketplace have increased. Increases in default rates increase our costs to service these loans without a corresponding increase in our servicing fees or other related fees. In addition, if we experience higher than expected default rates on loans held on our balance sheet, the value of those loans may decline. Higher default rates by borrowers may lead to lower demand by our lending partners and institutional investors to fund loans facilitated through our marketplace, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any sustained decline in demand for loans or loan financing products, or any increase in delinquencies, defaults or foreclosures that result from 29 Table of Contents economic downturns, may harm our ability to maintain robust loan funding programs, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We continue to monitor the ongoing economic conditions to assess possible implications to our business and to take appropriate actions in an effort to mitigate the adverse consequences of uncertainty or negative trends. However, there can be no assurances that initiatives we undertake will be sufficient or successful. If there is an economic downturn that affects our current and prospective borrowers or our lending partners and institutional investors, or if we are unable to address and mitigate the risks associated with any of the foregoing, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we are unable to maintain diverse and robust loan funding programs with institutional investors, our growth prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our business depends on sourcing and maintaining diverse and robust loan funding programs to fund Upstart-powered loans that are not retained by our lending partners. In the year ended December 31, 2022, 30% of the loans funded through our platform were retained by our lending partners, and 60% of loans were purchased by institutional investors through our loan funding programs. Our loan funding programs include whole loan sales and pass-through certificate issuances to institutional investors, asset-backed securitization transactions, and utilization of warehouse credit facilities. While our loan funding programs are diverse, only a limited portion of such funding sources are committed. We have recently experienced reductions in capital from certain funding sources due to concerns about the current macroeconomic environment, including rapidly rising interest rates and recessionary concerns, which has resulted in, and could continue to result in, declines in Transaction Volume, Number of Loans and revenue. We cannot be sure that these funding sources will continue to be available on reasonable terms or at all beyond the current maturity dates of our debt financing arrangements. And while we are seeking to further diversify our funding sources to include long-term committed capital, we do not know when these types of funding sources will become available, if at all. And if they become available to us, they may be on terms that are more costly or have less favorable terms than our existing funding sources. For example, if we enter into long-term committed capital arrangements when interest rates are high and such arrangements remain through a full economic cycle, these funding sources may become more costly during periods with lower interest rates. Further, events of default or breaches of financial, performance or other covenants, or worse than expected performance of certain pools of loans underpinning our pass-through certificate transactions, asset-backed securitizations or other debt facilities, could limit our access to funding from institutional investors. Loan performance is dependent on a number of factors, including the predictiveness of our AI models and social and economic conditions. The availability and capacity of certain loan funding sources also depends on many factors that are outside of our control, such as capital markets and interest rate volatility, economic conditions and regulatory reforms. For example, our revenue has been negatively impacted by reduced loan funding due to recent concerns about the macroeconomic environment, including rapidly rising interest rates, risk of increased loan default rates and recessionary concerns, among institutional investors. In the event of another sudden or unexpected shortage or limits on the availability of loan funding sources, we may not be able to maintain the necessary levels of funding to retain current loan volume without incurring substantially higher funding costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we have utilized, and expect to continue utilizing, our balance sheet to support funding of loans that would otherwise be held by institutional investors. The increase in the percentage of loans held on our balance sheet has diverted capital resources, increased our exposure to the changes in the fair value of such loans and could result in losses if such loans held on our balance sheet default. Increases in the percentage of loans held on our balance sheet could further have these impacts and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our existing lending partners cease or limit operations with us or if we are unable to attract and onboard new lending partners, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. 30 Table of Contents Our success depends in significant part on the participation of our lending partners in our marketplace. In the year ended December 31, 2022, 108% of our revenue was generated from platform, referral and servicing fees that we receive from our lending partners. Our lending partners may suspend, limit or cease their participation in our marketplace for a number of reasons. For example, several of our lending partners have recently paused or reduced loan origination in order to limit their exposure to consumer loans in the current macroeconomic environment. If our lending partners continue to suspend, limit or cease their operations or otherwise terminate their relationships with us, the number of loans facilitated through our platform will decrease and our revenue will be adversely affected. Moreover, our sales and onboarding process with new lending partners can be long and unpredictable. If we are unable to timely onboard our lending partners, or if our lending partners are not willing to work with us to complete a timely onboarding process, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We have entered into separate agreements with each of our lending partners. Our agreements with our lending partners are nonexclusive and may contain minimum fee amounts. Our lending partners could decide to stop working with us, ask to modify their agreement terms in a cost prohibitive manner when their agreement is up for renewal or enter into exclusive or more favorable relationships with our competitors. In addition, their regulators may require that they terminate or otherwise limit their business with us, or impose regulatory pressure limiting their ability to do business with us. In June 2022, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, or CFPB, Deputy Director indicated that relationships between banks and nonbank lenders, such as our lending partnerships, will be an area of increased regulatory focus for the agency in the near future. Previously, we received a no-action letter regarding the use of our Al model to underwrite and price unsecured closed-end loans. Our no-action letter was terminated upon our request in June 2022 to prevent delays from seeking regulatory approval of updates to our AI models. As a result, we can provide no assurance that the CFPB or any other federal or state regulator will not take supervisory or enforcement action against us in the future. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, or OCC, the prudential regulator for national banks operating in the United States, recently announced that it will be prioritizing the review of third-party relationships between banks and financial technology companies like us as part of the agencys bank supervisory priorities for the upcoming calendar year. The threat of increased scrutiny from the CFPB, the OCC and other regulators of our lending partners has caused and could continue to cause some of our lending partners to pause, limit or cease their participation in our lending marketplace or to not renew their agreements with us. If additional lending partners stop working with us, suspend, limit or cease their operations or otherwise terminate their relationship with us, the number of loans facilitated through our platform will decrease and our revenue will be adversely affected. Moreover, we could in the future have disagreements or disputes with any of our lending partners, which could negatively impact or threaten our relationship with them. In our agreements with lending partners, we make certain representations and warranties and covenants concerning our compliance with specific policies of a lending partner, our compliance with certain procedures and guidelines related to laws and regulations applicable to our lending partners, as well as the services to be provided by us. If those representations and warranties were not accurate when made or if we fail to perform a covenant, we may be liable for any resulting damages, including potentially any losses associated with impacted loans, and our reputation and ability to continue to attract new lending partners would be adversely affected. Additionally, our lending partners may engage in mergers, acquisitions or consolidations with each other, our competitors or with third parties, any of which could be disruptive to our existing and prospective relationships with our lending partners. In addition, our lending partners may retain loans for their own customer base and balance sheet. In general, lending partners can fund loans at lower rates due to the lower cost of funds available to them from their deposit base than is otherwise available in the broader institutional investment markets. Accordingly, loans retained by the lending partners generally carry lower interest rates for borrowers, which leads to better conversion rates and faster growth for our platform. Separately, as our number of lending partners grows, such lending partners will increasingly source new prospective borrowers from their own existing customer base and provide an incremental channel to attract borrowers. If we are unable to attract new lending partners or if we are unable to maintain or expand the number of loans held on their balance sheets, our financial performance would suffer. We have incurred net losses, and we may not be able to achieve profitability in the future. For the year ended December 31, 2022, we incurred a net loss of $108.7 million. We intend to continue to expend significant funds to continue to develop and improve our proprietary AI models, spend on marketing to 31 Table of Contents increase the number of borrowers on our platform, enhance the features and overall user experience of our platform, expand the types of loan offerings on our platform and otherwise continue to grow our business, and we may not be able to increase our revenue enough to offset these significant expenditures. We expect to incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including the other risks described in this section, and unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications and delays, macroeconomic conditions and other unknown events. Any failure to increase our revenue sufficiently to keep pace with our investments and other expenses could prevent us from being profitable. If we are unable to successfully address these risks and challenges as we encounter them, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our quarterly results are likely to fluctuate and as a result may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our quarterly results of operations, including the levels of our revenue, net income (loss) attributable to Upstart Holdings, Inc. common stockholders and other key metrics, are likely to vary significantly in the future, and period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful. Accordingly, the results for any one quarter are not necessarily an accurate indication of future performance. Our quarterly financial results may fluctuate due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Factors that may cause fluctuations in our quarterly financial results include: general economic conditions, including economic slowdowns, recessions, interest rate changes, inflation, and tightening of credit markets; our cost of borrowing money and access to loan funding sources; our ability to improve the effectiveness and predictiveness of our AI models; our ability to attract new lending partners and institutional investors of our loan funding programs; our ability to maintain relationships with existing lending partners and institutional investors of our loan funding programs; our ability to maintain or increase loan volumes, and improve loan mix and the channels through which the loans, lending partners and loan funding are sourced; our ability to maintain effective relationships with loan aggregators from which prospective borrowers access our website; improvements to our AI models that negatively impact transaction volume, such as lower approval rates; our ability to identify and prevent fraudulent activity and the impact of fraud prevention measures; changes in the fair value of assets and liabilities on our balance sheet; the timing and success of new products and services; the effectiveness of our direct marketing and other marketing channels; the amount and timing of operating expenses related to maintaining and expanding our business, operations and infrastructure, including acquiring new and maintaining existing lending partners and institutional investors and attracting borrowers to our platform; the number and extent of loans facilitated on our platform that are subject to loan modifications and/or temporary assistance due to disasters or emergencies; the number and extent of prepayments of loans facilitated on our platform; network outages or actual or perceived security breaches or incidents; our involvement in litigation or regulatory enforcement efforts (or the threat thereof) or those that impact our industry generally; the length of the onboarding process related to acquisitions of new lending partners; changes in laws and regulations that impact our business; and 32 Table of Contents changes in the competitive dynamics of our industry, including consolidation among competitors or the development of competitive products by larger well-funded incumbents. In addition, we typically experience seasonality in the demand for Upstart-powered loans, which is generally lower in the first quarter. This seasonal slowdown is primarily attributable to high loan demand around the holidays in the fourth quarter and the general increase in borrowers available cash flows in the first quarter, including cash received from tax refunds, which temporarily reduces borrowing needs. While recent government stimulus programs provided to individuals in response to the COVID-19 pandemic have obscured this seasonality in our overall financial results, we expect our results of operations to continue to be affected by such seasonality in the future because the COVID-19 government stimulus programs have ended. Such seasonality and other fluctuations in our quarterly results may also adversely affect and, increase the volatility of, the trading price of our common stock. If we are unable to continue to improve our AI models or if our AI models contain errors or are otherwise ineffective, our growth prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Our ability to attract potential borrowers to our platform and increase the number of Upstart-powered loans depend in large part on our ability to effectively evaluate a borrowers creditworthiness and likelihood of default and, based on that evaluation, offer competitively priced loans and higher approval rates. Our overall operating efficiency and margins further depend in large part on our ability to maintain a high degree of automation in our loan application process and achieve incremental improvements in the degree of automation. If our AI models fail to adequately predict the creditworthiness of borrowers due to the design of our models or programming or other errors, and our AI models do not detect and account for such errors, or any of the other components of our credit decision process fails, we may experience higher than forecasted loan losses. Any of the foregoing could result in sub-optimally priced loans, incorrect approvals or denials of loans, or higher than expected loan losses, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to attract new borrowers, lending partners and institutional investors to our lending marketplace, increase the number of Upstart-powered loans or maintain or increase the average size of loans facilitated on our platform. Our AI models also target and optimize other aspects of the lending process, such as borrower acquisition, fraud detection, default timing, loan stacking, prepayment timing and fee optimization, and our continued improvements to such models have allowed us to facilitate loans inexpensively and virtually instantly, with a high degree of consumer satisfaction and with an insignificant impact on loan performance. However, such applications of our AI models may prove to be less predictive than we expect, or than they have been in the past, for a variety of reasons, including inaccurate assumptions or other errors made in constructing such models, incorrect interpretations of the results of such models and failure to timely update model assumptions and parameters. Additionally, such models may not be able to effectively account for matters that are inherently difficult to predict and beyond our control, such as macroeconomic conditions, credit market volatility and interest rate fluctuations, which often involve complex interactions between a number of dependent and independent variables and factors. Material errors or inaccuracies in such AI models could lead us to make inaccurate or sub-optimal operational or strategic decisions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, errors or inaccuracies in our AI models could result in any person exposed to the credit risk of Upstart-powered loans, whether it be us, our lending partners or institutional investors in our loan funding programs, experiencing higher than expected losses or lower than desired returns, which could impair our ability to retain existing or attract new lending partners and institutional investors to participate in our loan funding programs, reduce the number, or limit the types, of loans lending partners and institutional investors are willing to fund, and limit our ability to increase commitments under our warehouse and other debt facilities. Any of these circumstances could reduce the number of Upstart-powered loans and harm our ability to maintain a diverse and robust loan funding program and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Continuing to improve the accuracy of our AI models is central to our business strategy. However, such improvements could negatively impact transaction volume, such as by lowering approval rates. For example, in the third quarter of 2021, we made changes to our AI models in response to an increase in fraudulent activity on our 33 Table of Contents platform. These changes, while effective at preventing fraudulent loans from being transacted, have resulted, and may in the future result in, a decrease in our Conversion Rate. While we believe that continuing to improve the accuracy of our AI models is key to our long-term success, those improvements could, from time to time, lead us to reevaluate the risks associated with certain borrowers, which could in turn result in lower approval rates or higher interest rates for any borrowers identified as a higher risk, either of which could negatively impact our growth and results of operations in the short term. Our AI models have not yet been extensively tested during down-cycle economic conditions. If our AI models do not, or are perceived not to, accurately reflect a borrowers credit risk in such economic conditions, the performance of Upstart-powered loans may be worse than anticipated. The performance of loans facilitated by our platform is significantly dependent on the effectiveness of our proprietary AI models used to evaluate a borrowers credit profile and likelihood of default. While our AI models are continually adjusted to account for certain macroeconomic conditions, the bulk of the data gathered and the development of our AI models have largely occurred during a period of sustained economic growth or during the COVID-19 pandemic when extraordinary government stimulus impacted the economy. Our AI models have not been extensively tested during other adverse economic cycles. There is no assurance that our AI models can accurately predict loan performance during periods of adverse economic conditions. If our AI models are unable to accurately reflect the credit risk of loans under such economic conditions, our lending partners, institutional investors in our loan funding programs and we may experience greater than expected losses on such loans, which would harm our reputation and erode the trust we have built with our lending partners and institutional investors in our loan funding programs. For example, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the federal government quickly implemented stimulus measures. The subsequent discontinuation of those stimulus measures has increased, and may continue to increase, the delinquency and default rates of borrowers of Upstart-powered loans, which has increased uncertainty about the effectiveness of our AI models among lending partners, institutional investors and others. In addition, we consider credit performance to be one of the most important measures of the effectiveness of our AI models and focus on credit performance compared to the expectations of our lending partners or institutional investors at the time of origination. For loans purchased by institutional investors, our 2021 through mid-2022 vintages have underperformed relative to target returns. Moreover, the fair value of the loans on our balance sheet has declined in the quarter ended December 31, 2022 and may decline in future down-cycle economic conditions. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our securitizations, whole loan sales and warehouse credit facilities expose us to certain risks, and we can provide no assurance that we will be able to access the securitization markets, continue our whole loan sales, renew our existing warehouse credit facilities or obtain new warehouse credit facilities in the future. This may result in the reduced supply of loan funding capital or require us to seek more costly financing for our marketplace. We have facilitated securitizations, and may in the future facilitate additional securitizations, of certain Upstart-powered loans to allow certain of our lending partners, whole loan purchasers, pass-through certificate buyers and ourselves to liquidate such loans through the asset-backed securities markets or through other capital markets products. In asset-backed securities transactions, we sell and convey pools of loans to a special purpose entity, or SPE. We likewise fund certain loans on our balance sheet by selling loans to warehouse trust SPEs, which loan sales are partially financed with associated warehouse credit facilities from banks. Concurrently, each securitization SPE issues notes and/or certificates pursuant to the terms of indentures and trust agreements, or in the case of the warehouse facilities, the warehouse trust SPE borrows money from banks pursuant to credit and security agreements. The securities issued by the SPEs in asset-backed securitization transactions and the lines of credit borrowed by the warehouse SPEs are each secured by the pool of loans owned by the applicable SPE. In exchange for the sale of a portion of a given pool of loans to the SPE, we and/or our whole loan purchasers, pass-through certificates buyers and certain lending partners who contribute loans to the transactions receive cash and/or securities representing debt and/or equity interests in such SPE, which are the proceeds from the sale of the securities. The equity interests in the SPEs are residual interests in that they entitle the equity owners of such SPEs, including us if we are an equity owner in the relevant transaction, to a certain proportion of the residual cash flows, if any, from the loans and to any assets remaining in such SPEs. As a result of challenging credit and liquidity conditions, the value 34 Table of Contents of the subordinated securities we or other transaction participants retain in such SPEs might be reduced or, in some cases, eliminated. During periods of financial disruption and economic uncertainty, such as the financial crisis that began in 2008, the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic in the spring of 2020 and periods of significant market volatility driven by rapidly rising interest and inflation rates and recessionary concerns in 2022, the securitization market has been constrained, and this could continue or occur again in the future. In addition, other matters, such as (i) accounting standards applicable to securitization transactions and (ii) capital and leverage requirements applicable to banks and other regulated financial institutions holding asset-backed securities, could result in decreased institutional investor demand for securities issued through our securitization transactions, or increased competition from other institutions that undertake securitization transactions. In addition, compliance with certain regulatory requirements, including the Dodd-Frank Act, the Investment Company Act and the so-called Volcker Rule, may affect the type of securitizations that we are able to complete. If it is not possible or economical for us to securitize loans in the future, we may need to seek alternative financing to support our loan funding programs and to meet our existing debt obligations. Such funding may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If the cost of such loan funding mechanisms were to be higher than that of our securitizations, the fair value of the loans would likely be reduced, which would negatively impact our results of operations. If we are unable to access such financing, our ability to originate loans and our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity may be materially adversely affected. The gain on sale and related servicing fees generated by our whole loan sales, and the servicing fees based on sales of asset-backed securities, also represent a material portion of our earnings. We cannot assure you that our loan purchasers will continue to purchase loans or securities (either through whole loan sales or asset-backed securities) or that they will continue to purchase loans in transactions that generate the same spreads and/or fees that we have historically obtained. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we sold loans that had been originated in an earlier, lower interest rate environment. We recognized losses on these sales which reduced our revenue. As we hold more loans on our balance sheet, or hold these loans for longer periods and interest rates rise, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be adversely affected, including further reductions in revenue. Factors that may affect loan purchaser demand for loans include: competition in the whole loan sales markets where we compete with loan originators who can sell either larger loan portfolios or loans that have characteristics, pricing and terms that may be perceived to be more desirable to certain loan purchasers or institutional investors than those offered in Upstart-powered loans that comprise our whole loan sales; competition in the securitization markets where we compete with loan originators and other issuers who can securitize or sell pools of loans (which such pools may include Upstart-powered loans, on a commingled basis or otherwise) with characteristics, pricing and terms that may be perceived to be more desirable to certain institutional investors than those offered in Upstart-powered loans contributed to asset-based securitization transactions that we facilitate; the extent to which servicing fees and other expenses may reduce overall net return on purchased pools of loans; the actual or perceived credit performance and loan grade and term mix of the portfolios of loans offered for sale; loan purchasers sector and company investment diversification requirements and strategies; higher yielding investment opportunities at a risk profile deemed similar to our sold loan portfolios; borrower prepayment behavior within the underlying pools; regulatory or investment practices related to maintaining net asset value, mark-to-market and similar metrics surrounding pools of purchased loans; and the ability of our loan purchasers to access funding and liquidity channels, including warehouse financing and securitization markets, on terms they find acceptable to deliver an appropriate return net of funding 35 Table of Contents costs, as well as general economic conditions and market trends, such as increasing interest rates, that affect the appetite for loan financing investments. Potential institutional investors in our loan funding programs may also demand a lower price on our loans and loan financing products during periods of economic slowdown or recession to compensate for any increased risks. A reduction in the sale price of the loans and loan financing products we sell would negatively impact our revenues, operations and returns. For example, as interest rates increased, institutional loan investors reduced the prices they were willing to pay to purchase certain loans we held which had been originated during an earlier, lower interest rate environment, which negatively impacted our revenue. Any sustained decline in demand for loans or loan financing products, or any increase in delinquencies, defaults or losses that result from economic downturns, may also reduce the price we receive on future loan sales. Cross River Bank and one other lending partner account for a substantial portion of the total number of loans facilitated by our platform and our revenue. Cross River Bank, or CRB, a New Jersey-chartered community bank, originates a majority of the loans on our platform. In the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2022, CRB originated 55% and 51%, respectively, of the Transaction Volume, Number of Loans. CRB also accounts for a large portion of our revenues. In the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2022, fees received from CRB accounted for 56% and 45%, respectively, of our total revenue. CRB retains a proportion of the loans they originate on their own balance sheet, and sells the remainder of the loans to us, which we in turn sell to institutional investors, sell to our warehouse trust special purpose entities or retain on our balance sheet. Our most recent commercial arrangement with CRB began on January 1, 2019 and has a term of four years with an automatic renewal provision for an additional two years following the initial four-year term. Either party may choose to not renew by providing the other party 120 days notice prior to the end of the initial term or any renewal term. In addition, even during the term of our arrangement, CRB could choose to reduce the volume of Upstart-powered loans that it chooses to originate and/or retain on its balance sheet. We or CRB may terminate our arrangement immediately upon a material breach by the other party and failure to cure such breach within a cure period, if any representations or warranties are found to be false and such error is not cured within a cure period, bankruptcy or insolvency of either party, receipt of an order or judgment by a governmental entity, a material adverse effect, or a change of control whereby such party involved in such change of control provides 90 days notice to the other and payment of a termination fee of $450,000. If we are unable to continue to increase the number of other lending partners on our platform or if CRB or one of our other lending partners were to suspend, limit or cease their operations or otherwise terminate their relationship with us, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. In both the year ended December 31, 2021 and 2022, one other lending partner originated 36% of the Transaction Volume, Number of Loans. In the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2022, the fees received from this lending partner accounted for 27% and 28% of our total revenue, respectively. The sales and onboarding process of new lending partners could take longer than expected, leading to fluctuations or variability in expected revenues and results of operations. Our sales and onboarding process with new lending partners can be long, vary widely and generally takes approximately two to twelve months. As a result, revenues and results of operations may vary significantly from period to period. Prospective lending partners are often cautious in making decisions to implement our platform and related services because of the risk management alignment and regulatory uncertainties related to their use of our AI models, including their oversight, model governance and fair lending compliance obligations associated with using such models. In addition, prospective lending partners undertake an extensive diligence review of our platform, compliance and servicing activities before choosing to partner with us. Further, the implementation of our AI lending model often involves shifts by the lending partner to a new software platform or changes in their operational procedures, which may involve significant time and expense to implement. Delays in onboarding new lending partners can also arise while prospective lending partners complete their internal procedures to approve expenditures and test and accept our applications. Consequently, we face difficulty predicting the quarter in which new lending 36 Table of Contents partners will begin using our platform and the volume of fees we will receive, which can lead to fluctuations in our revenues and results of operations. The COVID-19 pandemic has harmed, and could continue to harm, our business, financial condition and results of operations and the duration and extent to which it will impact our future results of operations overall financial performance remains uncertain. The COVID-19 pandemic has caused extreme societal, economic, and financial market volatility, resulting in business shutdowns, an unprecedented reduction in economic activity and significant dislocation to businesses, the capital markets, and the broader economy. The global macroeconomic effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and related impacts on our business may persist for an indefinite period. The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the finances of borrowers on our platform has also been profound, as many have been, and may continue to be, impacted by unemployment, reduced earnings, inflation and/or elevated economic disruption and insecurity. Such adverse impacts on the economy and borrowers have resulted in, and may continue to contribute to, higher default rates on Upstart-powered loans and an increased rate of borrowers declaring bankruptcy, any of which could adversely affect the attractiveness of Upstart-powered loans to our lending partners and to the institutional investors in our loan funding program. At the end of 2021, the federal government discontinued most stimulus measures taken in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, which has led to, and may continue to lead to, increased delinquency and default rates of loans facilitated through our lending marketplace. If we are unable to improve our AI platform to account for events like the COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting macroeconomic impacts, or if our AI platform is unable to more successfully predict the creditworthiness of potential borrowers compared to other lenders, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Furthermore, the COVID-19 pandemic caused some borrowers on our platform to request a temporary extension or modification of the payment schedules of their loans under the temporary relief or loan modification programs, or hardship programs, offered by our lending partners and institutional investors in our loan funding programs. In the future, our lending partners and institutional investors may offer additional hardship programs. If a large number of borrowers seek to participate in such hardship programs, the investment returns of our lending partners and institutional investors in our loan funding programs could decline. Further, if the rate of borrowers that participate in such hardship programs is greater than those experienced by our competitors, then our lending partners and the institutional investors in our loan funding programs may become less interested in purchasing or investing in Upstart-powered loans, which could negatively impact our diversified loan funding strategy or significantly increase the cost of obtaining loan funding. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The continuing crisis and the magnitude and duration of the resulting fluctuations in business activity cannot currently be estimated with any degree of certainty and has had several effects on our business and results of operations, including, among other things: decreases in origination volumes on our platform; the potential for increased losses for new and existing Upstart-powered loans; lower acceptance rates from borrowers; a reduction in the availability of loan funding and liquidity from institutional investors and the capital markets; and restricted sales operations and marketing efforts, and a reduction in the effectiveness of such efforts in some cases. We continue to monitor the ongoing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic to assess possible implications to our business and to take appropriate actions in an effort to mitigate the adverse consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic. However, there can be no assurances that our initiatives we take will be sufficient or successful. 37 Table of Contents The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic continues to impact our business and results of operations will also depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the emergence of new COVID-19 variants, future spikes of COVID-19 infections resulting in additional preventive measures to contain or mitigate the spread of the virus, the impact on businesses and financial and capital markets, the extent and effectiveness of containment actions, the administration and efficacy of vaccination programs with respect to the prevalent COVID-19 variants or variant strains that will emerge in the future and the impact of further shelter-in-place or other government restrictions that may be imposed. For example, the termination of government stimulus measures reduced the ability of some individual borrowers to remain current on their obligations which we believe led to increased delinquencies, defaults, customer bankruptcies and charge-offs and decreasing recoveries for loans facilitated through the Upstart marketplace. A continued rise in default rates, delinquencies, customer bankruptcies or charge-offs have led, and may continue to lead, to lower demand by our lending partners to originate, and institutional investors to fund, loans facilitated through our marketplace, which would have an adverse effect on our business. An extended period of economic disruption as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic could have a material negative impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition, though the full extent and duration is uncertain. To the extent the COVID-19 pandemic continues to adversely affect our business and financial results, it is likely to also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in this Risk Factors section. Our business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations, many of which are evolving, and failure or perceived failure to comply with such laws and regulations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The legal and regulatory environment surrounding our AI lending marketplace is relatively new, susceptible to change and may require clarification or interpretive guidance with respect to existing laws and regulations. The body of laws and regulations applicable to our business are complex and subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to the lack of specificity regarding the application of AI and related technologies to the already highly regulated consumer lending industry. As a result, the application of such laws and regulations in practice may change or develop over time through judicial decisions or as new guidance or interpretations are provided by regulatory and governing bodies, such as federal, state and local administrative agencies. Since we launched our AI lending marketplace, we have been proactively working with the federal government and regulatory bodies to ensure that our AI lending marketplace and other services are in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. For example, after significant collaboration with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, or CFPB, the CFPB issued Upstart the first no-action letter in 2017, which provided that the CFPB would not take supervisory or enforcement action against Upstart for a violation of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA). Upon its expiration, we received a second no-action letter regarding the use of our Al model to underwrite and price unsecured closed-end loans. In June 2022, the second no-action letter was terminated upon our request. Our requested termination was driven by a need to keep our models accurate and updated during a period of significant economic change. As a result, we can provide no assurance that the CFPB or any other federal or state regulator will not take supervisory or enforcement action against us in the future. We plan to continue working and collaborating closely with regulators to provide visibility into AI and related emerging technologies and the potential benefits such technologies can have on the consumer lending industry, while also addressing the related risks. New laws and regulations and changes to existing laws and regulations continue to be adopted, implemented and interpreted in response to our industry and the emergence of AI and related technologies. As we expand our business into new markets, introduce new loan products on our platform and continue to improve and evolve our AI models, regulatory bodies or courts may claim that we are subject to additional requirements. Such regulatory bodies could reject our applications for licenses or deny renewals, delay or impede our ability to operate, charge us fees or levy fines or penalties, or otherwise disrupt our ability to operate our AI lending marketplace, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recent financial, political and other events may increase the level of regulatory scrutiny on financial technology companies. Regulatory bodies may enact new laws or promulgate new regulations or view matters or interpret laws and regulations differently than they have in the past, or commence investigations or inquiries into our business practices. For example, in April 2022, the CFPB announced that it intends to examine nonbank financial companies that pose risks to consumers, and in November 2022, the Treasury Department issued a report 38 Table of Contents encouraging the CFPB to increase its supervisory activity with respect to larger nonbank lenders. If the CFPB decides to subject us to its supervisory process, it could significantly increase the level of regulatory scrutiny of our business practices. In addition, the Biden Administration recently announced a government-wide effort to eliminate junk fees which could subject our business practices to even further scrutiny. The CFPBs action on junk fees thus far has largely focused on fees associated with deposit products, such as surprise overdraft fees and not-sufficient-funds fees, that are not within scope of Upstarts products or services. However, what constitutes a junk fee remains undefined. The CFPB has called out other fees, such as pay-to-pay fees charged by debt collectors, and is actively soliciting consumer input on fee practices associated with other consumer financial products or services, signaling that the junk fee initiative is likely to continue to broaden in scope. While Upstart believes that the costs it charges are reasonable under the circumstances and does not charge any fees that have been scrutinized by the CFPB thus far, we expect that we would still be subject to some additional scrutiny should the junk fee initiative expands to include fees directly associated with consumer lending products. Moreover, the CFPB has issued several interpretive statements and guidance documents that could impact our business practices including, but not limited to, a May 2022 statement on compliance obligations under ECOA for companies that rely on complex algorithms when making credit decisions. Further, the agency issued an update to its examination manual that contains a novel interpretation of its authority to prohibit unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices that would authorize the agency to treat any instance of discrimination against a protected class as an unfair act or practice under the Dodd-Frank Act. The CFPB also issued an interpretive rule expanding states authority to enforce requirements of federal consumer financial laws, including ECOA. State regulators have also increased the level of regulatory scrutiny on financial technology companies. For example, the State of Maryland initiated an enforcement action against a financial technology company and its bank partner for unlicensed lending within the state. Moreover, as noted above, the OCC has also indicated that it intends to use its supervisory authority to review bank third-party relationships with financial technology companies including a review of third-party business practices that could pose a risk of potential consumer harm that could impact the safety and soundness of the banks subject to agency supervision. Should the agency examine any of our lending partners, such examinations would, more than likely, involve a review of our business practices to determine whether they pose a risk to the safety and soundness of those lending partners. We have been subject to governmental inquiries as well. See the risk factor titled We have been in the past and may in the future be subject to federal and state regulatory inquiries regarding our business for more information. Any government investigations or inquiries, whether or not accurate or warranted, or whether concerning us or one of our competitors, could negatively affect our brand and reputation and the overall market acceptance of and trust in our AI lending marketplace. Any of the foregoing could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Substantially all of our revenue is derived from a single loan product, and we are thus particularly susceptible to fluctuations in the unsecured personal loan market. We also do not currently offer a broad suite of products that lending partners may find desirable. While we expanded the type of loan products offered on our platform to include auto loans and continue to invest in developing new loan products, the vast majority of loan originations currently facilitated through our platform are unsecured personal loans. The market for unsecured personal loans has grown rapidly in recent years, and it is unclear to what extent such market will continue to grow, if at all. A wide variety of factors could impact the market for unsecured personal loans, including macroeconomic conditions, competition, regulatory developments and other developments in the credit market. Our success will depend in part on the continued growth of the unsecured personal loan market, and if such market does not further grow or grows more slowly than we expect, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, lending partners may in the future seek partnerships with competitors that are able to offer them a broader array of credit products. Over time, in order to preserve and expand our relationships with our existing lending partners, and enter into new lending partnerships, it may become increasingly important for us to be able to offer a wider variety of products than we currently provide. We are also susceptible to competitors that may 39 Table of Contents intentionally underprice their loan products, even if such pricing practices lead to losses. Such practices by competitors would negatively affect the overall demand for personal loans facilitated on our platform. Further, because such personal loans are unsecured, there is a risk that borrowers will not prioritize repayment of such loans, particularly in any economic downcycle. To the extent borrowers have or incur other indebtedness that is secured, such as a mortgage, a home equity line of credit or an auto loan, borrowers may choose to repay obligations under such secured indebtedness before repaying their Upstart-powered personal loans. In addition, borrowers may not view Upstart-powered loans, which were originated through an online lending platform, as having the same significance as other credit obligations arising under more traditional circumstances, such as loans from banks or other commercial financial institutions. Any of the foregoing could lead to higher default rates and decreased demand by our lending partners and institutional investors to fund loans facilitated through our marketplace, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also more susceptible to the risks of changing and increased regulations and other legal and regulatory actions targeted towards the unsecured personal loan market. It is possible that regulators may view unsecured personal loans as high risk for a variety of reasons, including that borrowers will not prioritize repayment of such loans due to the unsecured nature of such loans or because existing laws and regulations may not sufficiently address the benefits and corresponding risks related to financial technology as applied to consumer lending. If we are unable to manage the risks associated with the unsecured personal loan market, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We are continuing to introduce and develop new loan products and services offerings, and if these products are not successful or we are unable to manage the related risks, our growth prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We have introduced auto loan and small dollar loan products and are continuing to invest in developing new loan products and service offerings, such as mortgages. New initiatives are inherently risky, as each involves unproven business strategies, new regulatory requirements and new financial products and services with which we, and in some cases our lending partners, have limited or no prior development or operating experience. We cannot be sure that we will be able to develop, commercially market and achieve market acceptance of any new products and services. In addition, our investment of resources to develop new products and services may either be insufficient or result in expenses that are excessive in light of revenue actually derived from these new products and services. It is also possible that such investment of resources may need to be delayed or deferred, as was the case with respect to our small business loan product when we decided to suspend its development in January 2023 due to the adverse macroeconomic conditions affecting our business at that time. If the profile of borrowers using any new products and services is different from that of those currently served by our existing loan products, our AI models may not be able to accurately evaluate the credit risk of such borrowers, and our lending partners and institutional investors in our loan funding programs may in turn experience higher levels of delinquencies or defaults. Failure to accurately predict demand or growth with respect to our new products and services could have an adverse impact on our reputation and business, and there is always risk that new products and services will be unprofitable, will increase our costs, decrease operating margins or take longer than anticipated to achieve target margins. In addition, any new products or services may raise new and potentially complex regulatory compliance obligations, which would increase our costs and may cause us to change our business in unexpected ways. Further, our development efforts with respect to these initiatives could distract management from current operations and will divert capital and other resources from our existing business. We may also have difficulty with securing adequate funding for any such new loan products and services, and if we are unable to do so, our ability to develop and grow these new offerings and services will be impaired. If we are unable to effectively manage the foregoing risks, our growth prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 40 Table of Contents Over the last several years, we have experienced rapid growth in our business. Our rapid growth has placed, and may continue to place, significant demands on our management, processes and operational, technological and financial resources. Our ability to manage our growth effectively and to integrate new employees and technologies into our existing business will require us to continue to retain, attract, train, motivate and manage employees and expand our operational, technological and financial infrastructure. From time to time, we rely on temporary independent contractor programs to scale our operations team. Failure to effectively implement and manage such programs could result in misclassification or other employment related claims or inquiries by governmental agencies. Continued growth could strain our ability to develop and improve our operational, technological, financial and management controls, enhance our reporting systems and procedures, recruit, train and retain highly skilled personnel and maintain user satisfaction. Any of the foregoing factors could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our reputation and brand are important to our success, and if we are unable to continue developing our reputation and brand, our ability to retain existing and attract new lending partners, our ability to attract borrowers to our platform, our ability to maintain a diverse funding marketplace and our ability to maintain and improve our relationship with regulators of our industry could be adversely affected. We believe maintaining a strong brand and trustworthy reputation is critical to our success and our ability to attract borrowers to our platform, attract new lending partners, maintain a diverse funding marketplace and sustain good relations with regulators. Factors that affect our brand and reputation include: perceptions of artificial intelligence, our industry and our company, including the quality and reliability of our AI lending marketplace; the accuracy of our AI models; characterizations of our company as a traditional lending company due to the amount of loans held on our balance sheet; perceptions regarding the application of artificial intelligence to consumer lending specifically and that algorithmic lending is inherently biased; our loan funding programs; changes to the Upstart platform; our ability to effectively manage and resolve borrower complaints; collection practices; privacy and security practices; litigation; regulatory activity; and the overall user experience of our platform. Negative publicity or negative public perception of these factors, even if inaccurate, could adversely affect our brand and reputation. For example, consumer advocacy groups, politicians and certain government and media reports have, in the past, advocated governmental action to prohibit or severely restrict consumer loan arrangements where banks contract with a third-party platform such as ours to provide origination assistance services to bank customers. These arrangements have sometimes been criticized as renting-a-bank charter. Such criticism has frequently been levied in the context of payday loan marketers, though other entities operating programs through which loans similar to Upstart-powered loans are originated have also faced criticism. The perceived improper use of a bank charter by these entities has been challenged by both governmental authorities and private litigants, in part because of the high rates and fees charged to consumers in certain payday and high-rate, small-dollar lending programs. Bank regulators have even required banks to exit third-party programs that the regulators determined involved unsafe and unsound practices. The payday loans that have been subject to more frequent criticism and challenge are fundamentally different from Upstart-powered loans in many ways, including that Upstart-powered loans typically have lower interest rates and longer terms, and Upstart-powered loans do not renew. In particular, interest rates of Upstart-powered loans have always been and are currently less than 36%, as compared to the triple-digit interest rates of many payday or small dollar loans that have been subject to such criticism. If we are nevertheless associated with such payday or high-rate, small-dollar consumer loans, or if we are associated with increased criticism of non-payday loan programs involving relationships between bank originators and non-bank lending platforms and program managers, demand for Upstart-powered loans could significantly decrease, which could cause our lending partners to reduce their origination volumes or terminate their arrangements with us, impede our ability to attract new lending partners or delay the onboarding of lending partners, impede our ability to attract institutional investors to participate in our loan funding programs or reduce the number of potential borrowers who use our platform. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Any negative publicity or public perception of Upstart-powered loans or other similar consumer loans or the consumer lending service we provide may also result in us being subject to more restrictive laws and regulations and potential investigations and enforcement actions. In addition, regulators may decide they are no longer 41 Table of Contents supportive of our AI lending marketplace if there is enough negative perception surrounding such practices. We may also become subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, or other challenges such as government enforcement or arbitration, against our lending partners or us for loans originated by our lending partners on our platform, loans we service or have serviced. If there are changes in the laws or in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws affecting consumer loans similar to those offered on our platform, or our marketing and servicing of such loans, or if we become subject to such lawsuits, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Artificial intelligence and related technologies are subject to public debate and heightened regulatory scrutiny. The CFPB Director recently indicated that artificial intelligence remains a regulatory hot topic for the agency including the use of complex credit scoring models as part of the loan underwriting process. The agency has taken several steps to increase regulatory scrutiny of financial technology companies that rely on artificial intelligence. Any negative publicity or negative public perception of artificial intelligence could negatively impact demand for our AI lending marketplace, hinder our ability to attract new lending partners or slow the rate at which lending partners adopt our AI lending marketplace. From time to time, certain advocacy groups have made claims that unlawful or unethical discriminatory effects may result from the use of AI technology by various companies, including ours. Such claims, whether or not accurate, and whether or not concerning us or our AI lending marketplace, may harm our ability to attract prospective borrowers to our platform, retain existing and attract new lending partners and achieve regulatory acceptance of our business. In February 2020, we received a letter from five members of the U.S. Senate asking questions in connection with claims of discriminatory lending made by an advocacy group. We responded to this inquiry, and in July 2020, three of the Senators issued their findings from this inquiry, writing a letter to the Director of the CFPB recommending the CFPB further review Upstarts use of educational variables in its models and requesting that the CFPB stop issuing no-action letters related to ECOA. On December 1, 2020, in connection with these inquiries, we entered into an agreement with the NAACP Legal Defense and Education Fund, or the LDF, and the Student Borrower Protection Center, or the SBPC, in which we agree to participate in fair lending reviews of our AI models, including, but not limited to, its use of educational variables, and to engage a neutral third-party firm to perform periodic fair lending assessments over a two-year period. In accordance with the terms of the agreement, we engaged Relman Colfax LLC, or Relman, as a neutral third-party firm, and provided data to conduct fair lending testing of our underwriting models. The fair lending testing was designed to assess lending outcomes from our underwriting models to determine if the models caused or resulted in a disparate impact on any protected class, and if so, whether there were less discriminatory alternative practices while maintaining the models predictiveness. Most recently, in September 2022, Relman published its third public report that summarized its findings, recommendations and best practices, as well as any aspects of our AI models that raise particular fair lending concerns or implicate novel insights on educational equity that serve the public interest. While we have input on Relmans reports and the agreement provides that Relman and the parties to the agreement will collaborate to reach agreement on any recommendations, we may disagree with Relman, the LDF or the SBPC regarding the contents of the reports or particular recommendations that were made, the manner in which they should be implemented, if at all, or whether they would maintain the predictiveness of our AI models or meet any other legitimate business needs of Upstart. If we do not implement Relmans recommendations, the LDF and/or the SBPC could terminate the agreement with us. If Relmans reports are viewed negatively for any reason, or Relman terminates its agreement with us and/or the agreement with the LDF and/or the SBPC is terminated for any reason, our brand and reputation and the overall market acceptance of, and trust in, our AI lending marketplace could suffer, and we could be subject to increased regulatory and litigation risk. In addition, the publication of information arising from our agreement with the LDF or the SBPC, including the reports published by Relman, could lead to additional regulatory scrutiny for our lending partners. We have been subject to other governmental inquiries on this topic. See the risk factor titled We have been in the past and may in the future be subject to federal and state regulatory inquiries regarding our business for more information. Negative public perception, actions by advocacy groups or legislative and regulatory interest groups could lead to lobbying for and enactment of more restrictive laws and regulations that impact the use of AI technology in general, AI technology as applied to lending operations generally or as used in our applications more 42 Table of Contents specifically. Any of the foregoing could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Harm to our reputation can also arise from many other sources, including inaccurate or unfavorable statements made by securities analysts or others, failure by us or our lending partners to meet minimum standards of service and quality, loan underperformance, inadequate protection of borrower information and compliance failures and claims, and employee or former employee misconduct, misconduct by outsourced service providers or other counterparties, as further described below. If we are unable to protect our reputation, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Misconduct and errors by our employees, former employees, vendors, or service providers could harm our reputation and subject us to significant legal liability. We operate in an industry in which integrity and the confidence of our borrowers and lending partners is of critical importance. Our business depends on our employees, vendors, and service providers to process a large number of increasingly complex transactions, including transactions that involve significant dollar amounts and loan transactions that involve the use and disclosure of personal and business information. We are thus exposed to the risk of misconduct and errors by our employees, vendors, and other service providers that could adversely affect our business, including employees, vendors, or service providers taking, converting, or misusing funds, documents, or data, or failing to follow applicable laws and regulations or our internal policies or protocol when interacting with consumers and borrowers. It is not always possible to identify and deter misconduct or errors by employees, vendors, or service providers, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses. There have been numerous highly-publicized cases of fraud and other misconduct by financial services industry employees. If any of our employees, vendors or service providers engage in illegal, improper, or suspicious activity or other misconduct, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation, financial condition, relationships with lending partners and borrowers, and our ability to attract new lending partners or borrowers. We could also be perceived to have facilitated or participated in the illegal misappropriation of funds, documents, or data, or the failure to follow protocol, and therefore be subject to civil or criminal liability. Any of these occurrences could result in our diminished ability to operate our business, inability to attract future borrowers or lending partners, reputational damage, regulatory intervention, and financial harm, which could negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition, and future prospects. If we do not compete effectively in our target markets, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. The consumer lending market is highly competitive and increasingly dynamic as emerging technologies continue to enter into the marketplace. With the introduction of new technologies and the influx of new entrants, competition may persist and intensify in the future, which could have an adverse effect on our operations or business. Our inability to compete effectively could result in reduced loan volumes, reduced average size of loans facilitated on our platform, reduced fees, increased marketing and borrower acquisition costs or the failure of the Upstart platform to achieve or maintain more widespread market acceptance, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Consumer lending is a vast and competitive market, and we compete to varying degrees with all other sources of unsecured consumer credit. This can include banks, non-bank lenders including retail-based lenders and other financial technology lending platforms. Because personal loans often serve as a replacement for credit cards, we also compete with the convenience and ubiquity that credit cards represent. Many of our competitors operate with different business models, such as lending-as-a-service, have different funding sources, have different cost structures or regulatory obligations, or participate selectively in different market segments. They may ultimately prove more successful or more adaptable to new regulatory, economic, technological and other developments, including utilizing new data sources or credit models. We may also face competition from banks or companies that have not previously competed in the consumer lending market, including companies with access to vast amounts of 43 Table of Contents consumer-related information that could be used in the development of their own credit risk models. Our current or potential competitors may be better at developing new products due to their large and experienced data science and engineering teams, who are able to respond more quickly to new technologies. Many of our current or potential competitors have significantly more resources, such as financial, technical and marketing resources, than we do and may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their platforms and distribution channels. We face competition in areas such as compliance capabilities, commercial financing terms and costs of capital, interest rates and fees (and other financing terms) available to consumers from our lending partners, approval rates, model efficiency, speed and simplicity of loan origination, ease-of-use, marketing expertise, service levels, products and services, technological capabilities and integration, borrower experience, brand and reputation, and terms available to our loan funding institutional investor base. Our competitors may also have longer operating histories, lower commercial financing costs or costs of capital, more extensive borrower bases, more diversified products and borrower bases, operational efficiencies, more versatile or extensive technology platforms, greater brand recognition and brand loyalty, broader borrower and partner relationships, more extensive and/or more diversified loan funding institutional investor bases than we have, greater capacity to fund loans through their balance sheets, and more extensive product and service offerings than we have. Furthermore, our existing and potential competitors may decide to modify their pricing and business models to compete more directly with us. Our ability to compete will also be affected by our ability to provide our lending partners with a commensurate or more extensive suite of loan products than those offered by our competitors. In addition, current or potential competitors, including financial technology lending platforms and existing or potential lending partners, may also acquire or form strategic alliances with one another, which could result in our competitors being able to offer more competitive loan terms due to their access to lower-cost capital. Such acquisitions or strategic alliances among our competitors or potential competitors could also make our competitors more adaptable to a rapidly evolving regulatory environment. To stay competitive, we may need to increase our regulatory compliance expenditures or our ability to compete may be adversely affected. Our industry is driven by constant innovation. We utilize artificial intelligence and machine learning, which is characterized by extensive research efforts and rapid technological progress. If we fail to anticipate or respond adequately to technological developments, our ability to operate profitably could suffer. There can be no assurance that research, data accumulation and development by other companies will not result in AI models that are superior to our AI models or result in products superior to those we develop or that any technologies, products or services we develop will be preferred to any existing or newly-developed technologies, products or services. If we are unable to compete with such companies or fail to meet the need for innovation in our industry, the use of the Upstart platform could stagnate or substantially decline, or our loan products could fail to maintain or achieve more widespread market acceptance, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is heavily concentrated in U.S. consumer credit, and therefore our results are more susceptible to fluctuations in that market than a more diversified company. Our business is heavily concentrated in U.S. consumer credit. As a result, we are more susceptible to fluctuations and risks particular to U.S. consumer credit than a more diversified company. For example, our business is particularly sensitive to macroeconomic conditions that affect the U.S. economy and consumer spending and consumer credit, such as rising interest rates and changes in monetary policy. We are also more susceptible to the risks of increased regulations and legal and other regulatory actions that are targeted at consumer credit. Our business concentration could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and future prospects. If we are unable to manage the risks associated with fraudulent activity, our brand and reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Fraud is prevalent in the financial services industry and is likely to increase as perpetrators become more sophisticated. We are subject to the risk of fraudulent activity associated with borrowers and third parties handling borrower information and in limited situations cover certain fraud losses of our lending partners and institutional investors in our loan funding programs. For example, in the third quarter of 2021 and the first quarter of 2022, we experienced temporary increases in fraudulent activity. Fraud rates could also increase in a down-cycle economy. 44 Table of Contents We use several identity and fraud detection tools, including tools provided by third-party vendors and our proprietary AI models, to predict and otherwise validate or authenticate applicant-reported data and data derived from third-party sources. If such efforts are insufficient to accurately detect and prevent fraud, the level of fraud-related losses of Upstart-powered loans could increase, which would decrease confidence in our AI lending marketplace. In addition, our lending partners, institutional investors in our loan funding programs or we may not be able to recover amounts disbursed on loans made in connection with inaccurate statements, omissions of fact or fraud, which could erode the trust in our brand and negatively impact our ability to attract new lending partners and institutional investors in our loan funding programs. High profile fraudulent activity also could negatively impact our brand and reputation. In addition, significant increases in fraudulent activity could lead to regulatory intervention, which could increase our costs and also negatively impact our brand and reputation. Further, if there is any increase in fraudulent activity that increases the need for human intervention in screening loan application data, the level of automation on our platform could decline and negatively affect our unit economics. If we are unable to manage these risks, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may fail to achieve the expected cost savings and related benefits from our reduction in workforce initiated in November 2022 and January 2023. In November 2022, we announced a plan to reduce our workforce on our Operations Onboarding team to enable us to help achieve a more cost-efficient organization, which resulted in reducing headcount by 7%. In January 2023, we announced another plan to reduce our workforce by 20% to reduce operating costs, streamline operations and return Upstart to profitability. We may fail to effectively execute on, or achieve the stated goals of, the reductions in workforce. Our plans may also change as we continue to refocus on reducing operating costs, streamlining operations and returning our business to profitability. These actions may take more time than we currently estimate and we may not be able to achieve the cost-efficiencies sought. In addition, the reduction in workforce may negatively impact employee morale for those who are not directly impacted, which may increase employee attrition and hurt future recruiting efforts, hindering our ability to achieve our key priorities. Any failure to achieve the expected benefits from the reduction in workforce could adversely affect our stock price, financial condition and ability to achieve our goals. We depend on our key personnel and other highly skilled personnel, and if we fail to attract, retain and motivate our personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our success significantly depends on the continued service of our senior management team, including Dave Girouard, our Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer, and Paul Gu, our Co-Founder and Chief Technology Officer, and other highly skilled personnel. Our success also depends on our ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly qualified personnel for all areas of our organization. Competition for highly skilled personnel, including engineering and data analytics personnel, is extremely intense, particularly in the San Francisco Bay Area where one of our headquarters is located. While we have transitioned to a Digital First work model which allows us to recruit nationwide, we have experienced, and expect to continue to face, some difficulty identifying and hiring qualified personnel, especially as we pursue our growth strategy. We may not be able to hire or retain such personnel at compensation or flexibility levels consistent with our existing compensation and salary structure and policies. We periodically review our compensation levels to ensure they remain competitive and have increased them when we believe market conditions warrant it. However, we may need to further increase our existing compensation levels in response to competition, rising inflation or labor shortages, which would increase our operating costs and reduce our margins. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced employees have greater resources than we have and may be able to offer more attractive terms of employment. In particular, candidates making employment decisions, specifically in high-technology industries, often consider the value of any equity they may receive in connection with their employment. The recent significant volatility in the price of our stock may have adversely contributed to, and in the future may affect, our ability to attract or retain highly skilled technical, financial and marketing personnel. 45 Table of Contents In addition, we invest significant time and expense in training our employees, which increases their value to competitors who may seek to recruit them. If we fail to retain our employees, we could incur significant expenses in hiring and training their replacements. While we are in the process of training their replacements, the quality of our services and our ability to serve our lending partners, institutional investors and borrowers whose loans we service may suffer, resulting in an adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, we have reduced our workforce in November 2022 and January 2023 and may further reduce our workforce in the future to lower our operating costs and streamline operations. These reductions in force may adversely affect employee morale, our culture and our ability to attract and retain personnel who are critical to our business. It may also negatively impact our ability to pursue new initiatives due to insufficient resources and personnel. We may be unsuccessful in distributing duties and obligations of impacted employees among the remaining employees. We also may not realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings and may suffer unintended consequences, such as the loss of institutional knowledge, higher than expected employee turnover and significant disruptions in our day-to-day operations. If we are unable to realize the expected operational efficiencies or cost savings from the reductions in force, or if we experience significant adverse consequences as a result, our business, financial conditions and results of operations may be adversely affected. Security breaches and incidents compromising borrowers confidential information that we store may harm our reputation, adversely affect our results of operations and expose us to liability. We are increasingly dependent on information technology systems and infrastructure to operate our business. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect, process, transmit and store large amounts of sensitive information, including personal information, credit information and other sensitive data of borrowers and potential borrowers. It is critical that we do so in a manner designed to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of such sensitive information. We also have arrangements in place with certain of our third-party vendors that require us to share consumer information. We have outsourced elements of our operations (including elements of our information technology infrastructure) to third parties, and as a result, we manage a number of third-party vendors who may have access to our computer networks and sensitive or confidential information. In addition, many of those third parties may in turn subcontract or outsource some of their responsibilities to other third parties. As a result, our information technology systems, including the functions of third parties that are involved or have access to those systems, are large and complex, with many points of entry and access. While all information technology operations are inherently vulnerable to inadvertent or intentional security breaches, incidents, attacks and exposures, the size, complexity, accessibility and distributed nature of our information technology systems, and the large amounts of sensitive information stored on those systems, make such systems potentially vulnerable to unintentional or malicious, internal and external attacks. Any vulnerabilities can be exploited from inadvertent or intentional actions of our employees, third-party vendors, lending partners, loan institutional investors, or by malicious third parties. While we continuously refine our security controls to address the evolving threat landscape, attacks of this nature are increasing in their frequency, levels of persistence, sophistication and intensity, and are being conducted by sophisticated and organized groups and individuals with a wide range of motives (including, but not limited to, industrial espionage) and expertise, including organized criminal groups, hacktivists, nation states and others. These risks may be heightened in connection with the Russia-Ukraine conflict. In addition to the extraction of sensitive information, such attacks could include the deployment of harmful malware, ransomware, denial-of-service attacks, social engineering and other means to affect service reliability and threaten the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information and systems. In addition, the prevalent use of mobile devices increases the risk of data security incidents. Further, our Digital First working environment could increase the risks of security breaches and incidents. Significant disruptions of our, our lending partners and third-party vendors and/or other business partners information technology systems or other security incidents could adversely affect our business operations and result in the loss, misappropriation, or unauthorized access, use or disclosure of, or the prevention of access to, sensitive information, which could result in financial, legal, regulatory, business and reputational harm to us. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until they are launched against a target, we and our vendors may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. In addition, many governments have enacted laws 46 Table of Contents requiring companies to notify individuals of data security breaches involving their personal data. These mandatory disclosures regarding a security breach are costly to implement and often lead to widespread negative publicity following a breach, which may cause borrowers and potential borrowers to lose confidence in the effectiveness of our data security measures on our platform. Any security breach or incident, whether actual or perceived, would harm our reputation and ability to attract new borrowers to our platform. We also face indirect technology, cybersecurity and operational risks relating to the borrowers, lending partners, institutional investors, vendors and other third parties with whom we do business or upon whom we rely on to facilitate or enable our business activities, including vendors, payment processors, and other parties who have access to confidential information due to our agreements with them. In addition, any security compromise in our industry, whether actual or perceived, or information technology system disruptions, whether from attacks on our technology environment or from computer malware, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures, could interrupt our business or operations, harm our reputation, erode borrower confidence, negatively affect our ability to attract new borrowers, or subject us to third-party lawsuits, regulatory fines or other action or liability, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Like other financial services firms, we have been and continue to be the subject of actual or attempted unauthorized access, mishandling or misuse of information, computer viruses or malware, and cyber-attacks that could obtain confidential information, destroy data, disrupt or degrade service, sabotage systems or cause other damage, distributed denial of service attacks, data breaches and other infiltration, exfiltration or other similar events. While we regularly monitor data flow inside and outside the company, attackers have become very sophisticated in the way they conceal access to systems, and we may not be aware that we have been attacked. Any event that leads to unauthorized access, use or disclosure of personal information or other sensitive information that we or our vendors maintain, including our own proprietary business information and sensitive information such as personal information regarding borrowers, loan applicants or employees, could disrupt our business, harm our reputation, compel us to comply with applicable federal and/or state breach notification laws and foreign law equivalents, subject us to time consuming, distracting and expensive litigation, regulatory investigation and oversight, mandatory corrective action, require us to verify the correctness of database contents, or otherwise subject us to liability under laws, regulations and contractual obligations, including those that protect the privacy and security of personal information. This could result in increased costs to us and result in significant legal and financial exposure and/or reputational harm. In addition, any failure or perceived failure by us or our vendors to comply with our privacy, confidentiality or data security-related legal or other obligations to our lending partners or other third parties, actual or perceived security breaches, or any security incidents or other events that result in the unauthorized access, release or transfer of sensitive information, which could include personally identifiable information, may result in governmental investigations, enforcement actions, regulatory fines, litigation, or public statements against us by advocacy groups or others, and could cause our lending partners and other third parties to lose trust in us or we could be subject to claims by our lending partners and other third parties that we have breached our privacy- or confidentiality-related obligations, which could harm our business and prospects. Moreover, data security incidents and other inappropriate access can be difficult to detect, and any delay in identifying them may lead to increased harm of the type described above. There can be no assurance that our security measures intended to protect our information technology systems and infrastructure will successfully prevent service interruptions or security incidents. For example, in April 2020, we were made aware of a software error which allowed access to certain consumers accounts through the Upstart website without providing such consumers passwords. As a result, certain of such consumers personal information, such as their name, address and job information (but not full social security information), could be accessed by a third party. We promptly deployed an update to our software to address such vulnerability and are conducting an internal investigation. We are not aware of any information being compromised as a result of this error. We cannot provide any assurance that similar vulnerabilities will not arise in the future as we continue to expand the features and functionalities of our platform and introduce new loan products on our platform, and we expect to continue investing substantially to protect against security vulnerabilities and incidents. We maintain errors, omissions, and cyber liability insurance policies covering certain security and privacy damages. However, we cannot be certain that our coverage will continue to be available on economically reasonable 47 Table of Contents terms or will be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims, or that an insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim, or that any insurer will be adequately covered by reinsurance or other risk mitigants or that any insurer will offer to renew policies at an affordable rate or offer such coverage at all in the future. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to manage the risks related to our loan servicing and collections obligations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The vast majority of Upstart-powered loans are not secured by any collateral, guaranteed or insured by any third party or backed by any governmental authority. As a result, we are limited in our ability to collect on such loans on behalf of our lending partners and institutional investors of our loan funding programs if a borrower is unwilling or unable to repay them. The ability to collect on the loans is dependent on the borrowers continuing financial stability, and consequently, collections can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, unemployment, divorce, death, illness, bankruptcy or the economic or social factors beyond a borrowers personal circumstances. In addition, the application of various federal and state laws, including federal and state bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount that can be recovered on these loans. It is possible that a higher percentage of consumers will seek protection under bankruptcy or debtor relief laws as a result of the current inflationary environment, the possibility of a recession and market volatility. Federal, state, or other restrictions could impair our ability to collect amounts owed and due on the loans facilitated through our platform, reduce income received from the loans facilitated through our platform, or negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We began conducting first-party collection activities in the fourth quarter of 2022. We have no prior experience conducting first-party or in-house collection activities, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to effectively manage risks associated with such activities. In addition to first-party collection activities, we partner with third-party collection agencies for loans we service. If such third-party collection agencies do not perform as expected under our agreements with them or if we or these collection agents act unprofessionally and otherwise harm the user experience for borrowers of Upstart-powered loans, our brand and reputation could be harmed and our ability to attract potential borrowers to our platform could be negatively impacted. For example, during periods of increased delinquencies caused by economic downturns or otherwise, it is important that we and the collection agents are proactive and consistent in contacting a borrower to bring a delinquent balance current and ultimately avoid the related loan becoming charged off. If we or the collection agents are unable to maintain a high quality of service, or fulfill the servicing obligations at all due to resource constraints, it could result in increased delinquencies and charge-offs on the loans, which could decrease fees payable to us, cause our lending partners to decrease the volume of Upstart-powered loans kept on their balance sheets, erode trust in our lending marketplace or increase the costs of our loan funding programs. If we fail to successfully address any of the foregoing risks associated with our collection activities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We are the loan servicer for most loans facilitated through our platform, including those loans that are part of our loan funding programs, such as asset-backed securitization, pass-through certificate transactions and whole loan sales. Loan servicing is a highly manual process and an intensely regulated activity. Errors in our servicing activities, or failures to comply with our servicing obligations, could affect our internal and external reporting of the loans that we service, adversely affect our business and reputation and expose us to liability to borrowers, bank partners or institutional investors in our loan funding programs. In addition, we charge our loan holders a fixed percentage servicing fee based on the outstanding balance of loans serviced. If we fail to efficiently service or collect on such loans and the costs incurred exceed the servicing fee charged, our results of operations would be adversely affected. Moreover, the laws and regulations governing these activities are subject to change. If we are unable to comply with such laws and regulations, we could lose one or more of our licenses or authorizations, become subject to greater scrutiny by regulatory agencies or become subject to sanctions or litigation, which may have an adverse effect on our ability to perform our servicing obligations or make our platform available to borrowers in particular states. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 48 Table of Contents While auto loans issued through our lending platform are secured by collateral, auto loans are inherently risky, as they are often secured by assets that may be difficult to locate and can depreciate rapidly. We generally begin the repossession process for auto loans that become 60 days past due. We have engaged a third-party auto repossession vendor to handle all repossession activity. Following a repossession, if a borrower fails to redeem their vehicle or reinstate their loan agreement, the repossessed vehicle is sold at an auction and the proceeds are applied to the unpaid balance of the loan and related expenses. If the proceeds do not cover the unpaid balance of the loan and any related expenses, the deficiency would be charged-off. Further, if a vehicle cannot be located, repossession and sale of the vehicle would not be possible, which could also lead to delinquencies and charge-offs. A significant number of delinquencies and charge-offs could decrease fees payable to us, cause our lending partners to decrease the volume of Upstart-powered auto loans kept on their balance sheets, erode trust in our lending marketplace and increase the costs of our loan funding programs. Additionally, if such repossession vendors do not perform consistent with agreements entered into with us, or if vendors act unprofessionally or otherwise harm the user experience for borrowers of Upstart-powered loans, our brand and reputation could be harmed and our ability to attract potential borrowers to our platform could be negatively impacted. We may also become subject to regulatory scrutiny and potential litigation based on the conduct of our repossession vendors. In connection with our loan funding programs, we make representations and warranties concerning the loans sold, and if such representations and warranties are not accurate when made, we could be required to repurchase the applicable loans. In our loan funding programs, including asset-backed securitizations, pass-through certificate transactions, warehouse credit facilities and whole loan sales, we make numerous representations and warranties concerning the characteristics of the Upstart-powered loans sold and transferred in connection with such transactions, including representations and warranties that the loans meet the eligibility requirements of those facilities and of institutional investors in our loan funding programs. If those representations and warranties were not accurate when made and are not timely cured or incurable, we may be required to repurchase the underlying loans. Failure to repurchase such loans could constitute a default, an event of default or termination event under the agreements governing our various loan funding programs and could require us to indemnify certain financing parties. Through December 31, 2022, the number of repurchased Upstart-powered loans as a result of inaccurate representations and warranties represents less than 0.28% of all Upstart-powered loans. While only a small number of Upstart-powered loans have been historically repurchased by us, there can be no assurance that we would have adequate cash or other qualifying assets available to make such repurchases if and when required. Such repurchases could be limited in scope, relating to small pools of loans, or significant in scope, across multiple pools of loans. If we were required to make such repurchases and if we do not have adequate liquidity to fund such repurchases, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may evaluate and potentially consummate acquisitions or investments in complementary business and technologies, which could require significant management attention, consume our financial resources, disrupt our business and adversely affect our results of operations, and we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions or investments. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to grow our business. In some circumstances, we may determine to do so through the acquisition of or investments in complementary businesses and technologies rather than through internal development. For example, in 2021 we completed the acquisition of Prodigy. The identification of suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming, and costly, and we may not be able to successfully complete identified acquisitions. In the future, we may acquire assets or businesses. The risks we face in connection with acquisitions include: diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to addressing acquisition integration challenges; 49 Table of Contents utilization of our financial resources for acquisitions or investments that may fail to realize the anticipated benefits; inability of the acquired technologies, products or businesses to achieve expected levels of revenue, profitability, productivity or other benefits; coordination of technology, product development and sales and marketing functions and integration of administrative systems; transition of the acquired companys borrowers to our systems; retention of employees from the acquired company; regulatory risks, including maintaining good standing with existing regulatory bodies or receiving any necessary approvals, as well as being subject to new regulators with oversight over an acquired business; attracting financing; cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization; the need to implement or improve controls, procedures and policies at a business that prior to the acquisition may have lacked effective controls, procedures and policies; potential write-offs of loans or intangibles or other assets acquired in such transactions that may have an adverse effect on our results of operations in a given period; liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including patent and trademark infringement claims, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities; assumption of contractual obligations that contain terms that are not beneficial to us, require us to license or waive intellectual property or increase our risk for liability; and litigation, claims or other liabilities in connection with the acquired company. Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with any future acquisitions and strategic investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions or investments, cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities and harm our business generally. Future acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses or the write-off of goodwill, any of which could harm our financial condition. Strategic investments in which we have a minority ownership stake and that we do not control may from time to time have economic, business, or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals. As a result, business decisions or other actions or omissions of controlling shareholders, management, or other persons or entities who control companies in which we invest may adversely affect the value of our investment, result in litigation or regulatory action against us, or otherwise damage our reputation and brand. Borrowers may prepay a loan at any time without penalty, which could reduce our servicing fees and deter our lending partners and institutional investors from investing in loans facilitated through our lending marketplace. A borrower may decide to prepay all or a portion of the remaining principal amount on a loan at any time without penalty. If the entire or a significant portion of the remaining unpaid principal amount of a loan is prepaid, we would not receive a servicing fee, or we would receive a significantly lower servicing fee associated with such prepaid loan. Prepayments may occur for a variety of reasons, including if interest rates decrease after a loan is made. If a significant volume of prepayments occurs, the amount of our servicing fees would decline, which could harm our business and results of operations. Our AI models are designed to predict prepayment rates. However, if a significant volume of prepayments occur that our AI models do not accurately predict, returns targeted by our lending partners and institutional investors in our loan funding programs would be adversely affected and our ability to attract new lending partners and institutional investors in our loan funding programs would be negatively affected. 50 Table of Contents Our marketing efforts and brand promotion activities may not be effective. Promoting awareness of our AI lending marketplace is important to our ability to grow our business, attract new lending partners, increase the number of potential borrowers on our platform and attract institutional investors to participate in our loan funding programs. We believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition in the consumer lending industry expands. However, because our lending partners are increasingly adopting our lending partner-branded version of our AI lending marketplace through their own websites, potential borrowers may not be aware they are experiencing our AI lending marketplace, which may hinder recognition of our brand. Successful promotion of our brand will depend largely on the effectiveness of marketing efforts and the overall user experience of our lending partners and potential borrowers on the Upstart platform, which factors are outside our control. The marketing channels that we employ may also become more crowded and saturated by other lending platforms, which may decrease the effectiveness of our marketing campaigns and increase borrower acquisition costs. Also, the methodologies, policies and regulations applicable to marketing channels may change. For example, internet search engines could revise their methodologies, which could adversely affect borrower volume from organic ranking and paid search. Search engines may also implement policies that restrict the ability of companies such as us to advertise their services and products, which could prevent us from appearing in a favorable location or any location in the organic rankings or paid search results when certain search terms are used by the consumer. Our brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenues. If we fail to successfully build trust in our AI lending marketplace and the performance and predictability of Upstart-powered loans, we may lose existing lending partners and institutional investors in our loan funding programs to our competitors or be unable to attract new lending partners and institutional investors in our loan funding programs, which in turn would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Even if our marketing efforts result in increased revenue, we may be unable to recover our marketing costs through increases in loan volume, which could result in a higher borrower acquisition cost per account. Any incremental increases in loan servicing costs, such as increases due to greater marketing expenditures, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unfavorable outcomes in legal proceedings may harm our business and results of operations. We are, and may in the future become, subject to litigation, claims, examinations, investigations, legal and administrative cases and proceedings, whether civil or criminal, or lawsuits by governmental agencies or private parties, which may affect our results of operations. These claims, lawsuits, and proceedings could involve, and in some cases have involved, labor and employment, discrimination and harassment, commercial disputes, intellectual property rights (including patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret, and other proprietary rights), class actions, general contract, tort, defamation, data privacy rights, antitrust, common law fraud, government regulation, or compliance, alleged federal and state securities and blue sky law violations or other investor claims, and other matters. For example, we are a defendant in a number of securities class action and other related lawsuits. See the risk factor titled The trading price of our common stock may be volatile, and you could lose all or part of your investment for more information. Due to the consumer-oriented nature of our business and the application of certain laws and regulations, participants in our industry are regularly named as defendants in litigation alleging violations of federal and state laws and regulations and consumer law torts, including fraud. Many of these legal proceedings involve alleged violations of consumer protection laws. In addition, we have been in the past and may in the future be subject to litigation, claims, examinations, investigations, legal and administrative cases and proceedings related to the offer and sale of Upstart-powered loans. In particular, lending programs that involve originations by a bank in reliance on origination-related services being provided by non-bank lending platforms and/or program managers are subject to potential litigation and government enforcement claims based on rent-a-charter or true lender theories, particularly where such programs involve the subsequent sale of such loans or interests therein through the lending marketplace. SeeIf loans facilitated through our platform for one or more lending partners were subject to successful challenge that the 51 Table of Contents lending partner was not the true lender, such loans may be unenforceable, subject to rescission or otherwise impaired, we or other program participants may be subject to penalties, and/or our commercial relationships may suffer, each which would adversely affect our business and results of operations, below. In addition, loans originated by lending partners (which are exempt from certain state requirements under federal banking laws), followed by the sale, assignment, or other transfer to non-banks of such loans are subject to potential litigation and government enforcement claims based on the theory that transfers of loans from banks to non-banks do not transfer the ability to enforce contractual terms such as interest rates and fees from which only banks benefit under federal preemption principles. SeeIf loans originated by our lending partners were found to violate the laws of one or more states, whether at origination or after sale by the lending partner, loans facilitated through our platform may be unenforceable or otherwise impaired, we or other program participants may be subject to, among other things, fines and penalties, and/or our commercial relationships may suffer, each of which would adversely affect our business and results of operations below. In addition, the recent inquiries related to our models use of education variables in assessing credit risk could prompt potential litigation and government enforcement claims based on perceived violations of ECOA. SeeWe have been in the past and may in the future be subject to federal and state regulatory inquiries regarding our business below. If we were subject to such litigation or enforcement, then any unfavorable results of pending or future legal proceedings may result in contractual damages, usury related claims, fines, penalties, injunctions, the unenforceability, rescission or other impairment of loans originated on our platform or other censure that could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Even if we adequately address the issues raised by an investigation or proceeding or successfully defend a third-party lawsuit or counterclaim, we may have to devote significant financial and management resources to address these issues, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have a limited history of operating with a Digital First workforce, and the long-term impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations is uncertain. Since our announcement of a Digital First work model in June 2021, remote work with less time in the office has been the primary experience for most of our employees. Our workforce is currently distributed across the U.S., and we expect this distribution to continue. We have a limited history of operating with a Digital First workforce. Although we anticipate that this Digital First model will have a long-term positive impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations, there is no guarantee that we will realize any anticipated benefits to our business from this model, including cost savings, operational efficiencies, or productivity. Our Digital First model could lead to a negative long-term impact on our operations, the execution of our business plans and sales and marketing efforts, our company culture, or the productivity and retention of key personnel and other employees necessary to conduct our business, or otherwise cause operational failures due to changes in our past business practices. If a natural disaster, power outage, connectivity issue, or other event were to occur that impacted our employees ability to work remotely, it may be difficult or, in certain cases, impossible, for us to continue our business for a substantial period of time. The increase in remote working may also result in increased exposure to consumer privacy and data security incidents, or fraudulent activity. Furthermore, our understanding of applicable legal and regulatory requirements related to a remote workforce may be subject to legal or regulatory challenge, particularly as regulatory guidance evolves in response to future developments. If we are unable to successfully address the foregoing risks and challenges as we encounter them, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our business is subject to the risks of natural disasters and other catastrophic events, many of which are becoming more acute and frequent due to climate change, and to interruption by human-induced problems. Significant natural disasters or other catastrophic events, such as earthquakes, fires, hurricanes, blizzards, or floods (many of which are becoming more acute and frequent as a result of climate change), or interruptions by strikes, crime, terrorism, epidemics, pandemics, cyber-attacks, computer viruses, internal or external system failures, telecommunications failures, power outages or increased risk of cybersecurity breaches due to a swift transition to remote work brought about by a catastrophic event, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 52 Table of Contents The long-term effects of climate change on the global economy and our industry in particular are unclear; however, we recognize that there are inherent climate-related risks wherever business is conducted. Either of our headquarters may be vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change. One of our headquarters is located in the San Francisco Bay Area, a region that is prone to seismic activity and has experienced and may continue to experience, climate-related events and at an increasing rate. Examples include drought and water scarcity, warmer temperatures, wildfires and air quality impacts and power shut-offs associated with wildfire prevention. The increasing intensity of drought throughout California and annual periods of wildfire danger increase the probability of planned power outages. Our other headquarters in Columbus, Ohio is a region at higher risk for blizzards. Although we maintain a disaster response plan and insurance, such events could disrupt our business, the business of our lending partners or third-party suppliers, and may cause us to experience losses and additional costs to maintain and resume operations. We may not maintain sufficient business interruption or property insurance to compensate us for potentially significant losses, including potential harm to our business that may result from interruptions in our ability to provide our financial products and services. In addition, acts of war and other armed conflicts, disruptions in global trade, travel restrictions and quarantines, terrorism and other civil, political and geo-political unrest, such as the ongoing Russia-Ukraine conflict, could cause disruptions in our business and lead to interruptions, delays or loss of critical data. Any of the foregoing risks may be further increased if our business continuity plans prove to be inadequate and there can be no assurance that both personnel and non-mission critical applications can be fully operational after a declared disaster within a defined recovery time. If our personnel, systems or data centers are impacted, we may suffer interruptions and delays in our business operations. In addition, to the extent these events impact the ability of borrowers to timely repay their loans, our business could be negatively affected. If our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies prove to be incorrect or financial reporting standards or interpretations change, our results of operations could be adversely affected. The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States requires our management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported and disclosed in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. We base our estimates and assumptions on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. The results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities, and equity, and the amount of revenue and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include those related to fair value determinations, stock-based compensation, consolidation of variable interest entities, provision for income taxes, net of valuation allowance for deferred tax assets, and the evaluation for impairment of goodwill and acquired intangible assets. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our results of operations to fall below the expectations of industry or financial analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. Additionally, we regularly monitor our compliance with applicable financial reporting standards and review new pronouncements and drafts thereof that are relevant to us. As a result of new standards, or changes to existing standards, and changes in their interpretation, we might be required to change our accounting policies, alter our operational policies and implement new or enhance existing systems so that they reflect new or amended financial reporting standards, or we may be required to restate our published financial statements. Such changes to existing standards or changes in their interpretation may have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, and profit and loss, or cause an adverse deviation from our revenue and operating profit and loss target, which may negatively impact our results of operations. If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired. 53 Table of Contents As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and the rules and regulations of the applicable listing standards of the Nasdaq Global Select Market. We expect that the requirements of these rules and regulations will continue to increase our legal, accounting, and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming, and costly, and place significant strain on our personnel, systems, and resources. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure