Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2019. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. The statements contained in this report that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Forward-looking statements are often identified by the use of words such as, but not limited to, anticipate, believe, can, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, seek, should, strategy, target, will, would and similar expressions or variations intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management based on information currently available to management. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other important factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified below and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors included under Part II, Item 1A below. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. COVID-19 In December 2019, COVID-19 was first reported in China; in January 2020, the World Health Organization (WHO) declared it a Public Health Emergency of International Concern, and in March 2020, the WHO declared it a pandemic. The worldwide spread of the COVID-19 virus has resulted in a global economic slowdown and is expected to continue to disrupt general business operations until the disease is contained. We have experienced an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial performance as a result of the COVID-19 outbreak. The ultimate extent of the impact on our operational and financial performance will depend on certain developments, including the duration and spread of the outbreak, impact on our customers and our sales cycles, and the effect on our partners and employees, all of which are uncertain and cannot be predicted. Specifically, while the long-term opportunity that we see to help our customers protect their data, detect threats and achieve regulatory compliance remains unchanged, we started to see a negative impact on our results of operations in the last two weeks of the recently ended fiscal quarter and we cannot predict how long it will continue. We believe that crises create optimal conditions for cybercrime, and we can help protect data and infrastructure against hackers and rogue employees. In addition to these potential threats, companies around the world now have the majority of their employees working from potentially vulnerable home networks, accessing critical on-premises data stores and infrastructure through VPNs. Since the onset of the pandemic, we have experienced a significant increase in traffic to our website, an uptick in the use of our platform by existing customers and an increase in our pipeline, all of which we believe are a direct result of the pandemic. While we are encouraged by these trends, we have seen corporate expenditures subject to elevated scrutiny in the current environment. As a result, it has been, and we expect it will continue to be, more challenging to estimate the pipeline conversion rates and, therefore, our ability to monetize these trends in the near-term. We currently offer a total of 26 licenses across our six product families, and since commencing our transition to a subscription model in the beginning of 2019, we have seen a significant increase in the engagement of our existing customers who are adopting more licenses. As of March 31, 2020, 55% of our customers with 500 employees or more had purchased four or more licenses, compared to 45% a year ago and 21% purchased six or more licenses, compared to 14% a year ago. We believe the increase in licenses adopted by these customers demonstrates the success of our engagement strategy with existing customers, confirming how we are unleashing the potential of our platform while also illustrating the remaining opportunity that we have within our base. Additionally, the recurring component of our revenue base has significantly increased as a result of completing our subscription transition. Annual recurring revenues (ARR) as of March 31, 2020 grew 59% year-over-year, and renewal rates of maintenance on perpetual licenses continued to be over 90%. In addition, as of March 31, 2020, our dollar-based net retention rate, which is calculated by using a denominator of ARR from all subscription customers as of the same prior year period, and, a numerator of that same set of subscription customers as of the end of the current period, is more than 18 105%. This source of recurring revenues places us in a stronger position than a year ago and we believe it will help us move through this time of uncertainty. Despite these favorable trends, we have always aimed to tie our level of investment in the business to the revenues we plan to achieve, and, due to the revenue shortfall in the first quarter of 2020, we took prompt steps to manage our expenses, including responsible cost cutting measures, implementing a hiring freeze with the exception of key sales positions and reducing our capital expenditures. Additional actions taken in early April included reducing employee salaries across the organization, with senior management and our highest compensated employees seeing the largest reductions, and reducing the cash retainers for all members of our Board of Directors. Lastly, given the market volatility that resulted from the COVID-19 outbreak, the Company opportunistically entered into additional forward foreign exchange contracts for 2021 at more favorable rates. Due to this pandemic, we have been forced to adopt and change the way we have historically operated. We have temporarily closed all of our offices and our employees are working remotely as a precautionary measure intended to minimize the risk of the virus to them, our customers, partners and the communities in which we operate. As part of the move to remote working and virtual-only customer experience we have had to postpone and cancel customer and industry events or conduct them virtually, and we cannot predict with certainty the impact these changes may have on our sales. Overview Varonis is a pioneer in data security and analytics, fighting a different battle than conventional cybersecurity companies. We are pioneers because over a decade ago, we recognized that enterprise capacity to create and share data far exceeded its capacity to protect it. We believed the vast movement of information from analog to digital mediums combined with increasing information dependence would change both the global economy and the risk profiles of corporations and governments. Since then our focus has been on using innovation to address the cyber-implications of this movement, creating software that provides new ways to track and protect data wherever it is stored. Our software specializes in data protection, threat detection and response and compliance. Varonis software enables enterprises to protect data stored on premises and in the cloud: sensitive files and emails; confidential personal data belonging to customers, patients and employees; financial records; strategic and product plans; and other intellectual property. Recognizing the complexities of securing data, we have built a single integrated platform for security and analytics to simplify and streamline security and data management. The Varonis Data Security Platform, built on patented technology, helps enterprises protect data against insider threats and cyberattacks. Our products enable enterprises to analyze data, account activity and user behavior to detect attacks. Our Data Security Platform prevents or limits unauthorized use of sensitive information, prevents potential cyberattacks and limits others by locking down sensitive and stale data. Our products efficiently sustain a secure state with automation and address additional important use cases including data protection, governance, compliance, privacy, classification and threat detection and response. Our Data Security Platform is driven by a proprietary technology, our Metadata Framework, that extracts critical metadata, or data about data, from an enterprises information technology ("IT") infrastructure. Our Data Security Platform uses this contextual information to map functional relationships among employees, data objects, content and usage. We started operations in 2005 with a vision to make enterprise data more accessible, manageable, secure and actionable. We began offering our flagship product, DatAdvantage, which provides centralized visibility for enterprise data, in 2006. Since then we have continued to invest in innovation and have consistently introduced new products and software features to our customers. In 2017, we introduced the Automation Engine to allow customers to automatically repair and maintain file systems so that organizations are less vulnerable to attacks and security breaches, more compliant and consistently meeting a least privilege model. We enhanced DatAlert, which was originally introduced in 2013 to monitor and alert on sensitive data and file activity, with DatAlert Analytics Rewind to allow customers to analyze past user and data activity to identify security breaches that may have occurred in the past and pre-emptively tune out false positives. We updated our web UI for DatAlert and added new threat models to detect suspicious mailbox, Exchange and Exchange Online behaviors, password resets and unusual activity from personal devices. We introduced a new security dashboard in DatAlert, along with enhanced behavioral analytics, geolocation and more to make it easier than ever to perform security investigations and forensics. In 2017, we also released GDPR Patterns, part of the Data Classification Engine family, to help enterprises identify data that falls under the European Union's ("EU") General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR") and expanded our offerings that can help enterprises meet compliance and regulation requirements. 19 In 2018, we introduced Varonis Edge to extend our proactive security approach, enabling customers to spot signs of attack at the perimeter by analyzing telemetry from DNS, VPN and Web Proxies. We introduced Data Classification Labels to integrate with Microsoft Information Protection (MIP) and enable customers to better classify, track and secure files across enterprise data stores. We enhanced DatAnswers, a secure enterprise search solution for enterprise data that delivers highly relevant and secure search results to enterprise employees and which was originally introduced in 2014, to address additional compliance requirements from new data privacy laws and standards. We added classification categories to the Data Classification Engine, to better identify and analyze regulated data like GDPR, PII, PCI and PHI. We updated the DataPrivilege UI for improved usability and added classification categories making it easier to see who can access regulated data. We updated our web UI and introduced new features to DatAlert, including new threat models to combat cyberattacks, support for more data stores and optimizations to make DatAlert faster and more intuitive for security investigations. In 2019, we introduced updates to our existing products to include new dashboards to highlight cloud, Active Directory and GDPR security risks so that customers can more easily identify critical risk in their hybrid environments, including vulnerable user accounts, at-risk cloud data and potential compliance violations. We extended our cloud support to include Box, added threat intelligence to our security insights, built incident response playbooks directly into the UI, and made usability and performance improvements. We also added classification functionality to help enterprises automatically discover and classify data that falls under the California Consumer Privacy Act, or CCPA, and renamed GDPR Patterns to Policy Pack to reflect this addition of CCPA functionality. In the first quarter of 2019, we made the strategic shift to a subscription-based business model, which we believe will allow customers to better unleash the power of our platform through faster adoption of our integrated products. We currently have six product families, consisting of DatAdvantage, DatAlert, Data Classification Engine, DataPrivilege, Data Transport Engine and DatAnswers. As of March 31, 2020 and 2019, 100.0% of our customers had purchased DatAdvantage; 55.0% and 51.3% of our customers, respectively, had purchased DatAlert; 54.5% and 50.1% of our customers, respectively, had purchased Data Classification Engine; 15.6% and 15.4% of our customers, respectively, had purchased DataPrivilege; 9.2% and 7.9% of our customers, respectively, had purchased Data Transport Engine; and 2.6% and 1.9% of our customers, respectively, had purchased DatAnswers. As of March 31, 2020 and 2019, 23.7% and 26.5% of our customers, respectively, made standalone purchases of DatAdvantage. No other product families outside of DatAdvantage can be sold on a standalone basis. As of March 31, 2020 and 2019, approximately 76% and 73% of our customers, respectively, had purchased products in two or more families, one of which was DatAdvantage for all of these customers. As of March 31, 2020 and 2019, approximately 46% and 41% of our customers, respectively, had purchased products in three or more families. We believe our existing customer base serves as a strong source of incremental revenues given our broad platform of products, their growing volumes and complexity of enterprise data and associated security concerns. Our perpetual license maintenance renewal rate for each of the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 continued to be over 90%. Our key strategies to ensure a high subscription license renewal rate and maintain our maintenance renewal rate include focusing on the quality and reliability of our customer service and support to ensure our customers receive value from our products and providing software upgrades and enhancements when and if they are available. We sell substantially all of our products and services to channel partners, including distributors and resellers, which sell to end-user customers, which we refer to in this report as our customers. We believe that our sales model, which combines the leverage of a channel sales model with our highly trained and professional sales force, has and will continue to play a major role in our ability to grow and to successfully deliver our unique value proposition for enterprise data. While our products serve customers of all sizes, in all industries and all geographies, the marketing focus and majority of our sales focus is on targeting organizations with 1,000 users or more who can make larger initial purchases with us and, over time, have a greater potential lifetime value. Our customers span leading firms in the financial services, public, healthcare, industrial, insurance, energy and utilities, consumer and retail, technology, media and entertainment and education sectors. We believe our existing customers represent significant future revenue opportunities for us. We will continue our focus on targeting organizations with 1,000 users or more who can make larger purchases with us initially and over time. We believe there is a significant long-term growth opportunity in both domestic and foreign markets, which could include any organization that uses file shares, intranets and email for collaboration, regardless of region. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, approximately 70% of our revenues were derived from North America, while EMEA accounted for approximately 27% of our revenues and Rest of World (ROW) accounted for approximately 3% of our revenues. Additionally, even with our subscription mix increasing from 31% for the three months ended March 31, 2019 to 98% for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and the recent revenue headwinds from COVID-19, we still had nominal revenue growth in North America. We believe the transition from a perpetual-based model to a subscription-based model has positioned us well for the future, and, although revenues are still front-end loaded, they are more predictable and recurring in nature. We expect sales growth in North America and international expansion to be key components of our long-term growth strategy. 20 Despite the challenges currently resulting from COVID-19, once the virus is contained, we plan to continue to expand our international operations as part of our long-term growth strategy. The expansion of our international operations depends in particular on our ability to hire, integrate and retain local sales personnel in these international markets, acquire new channel partners and implement an effective marketing strategy. Given the nominal amount of our ROW revenues, our ROW revenue growth rates have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future based on the timing of deal closures. In addition, the further expansion of our international operations will increase our sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses and will subject us to a variety of risks and challenges, including those related to economic and political conditions in each region, compliance with foreign laws and regulations, and compliance with domestic laws and regulations applicable to our international operations. We derive the majority of our revenues from subscription sales and renewals and, to a lesser extent, from professional services and perpetual license sales of our products, including initial maintenance contracts associated with the sale. Subscription revenues are comprised of time-based licenses whereby new and existing customers use our software with related maintenance for a specified period. Perpetual license revenues consist of the revenues recognized from sales of perpetual licenses to new and existing customers. While prior to 2019 fees from subscription licenses comprised an insignificant amount of our revenues, as we transitioned to a subscription-based business in 2019, subscription licenses became a larger portion of our total revenues. Subscription licenses accounted for 37.6% of our total revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to 12.4% of our total revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019. Perpetual license sales accounted for 0.7% of our total revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to 27.5% of our total revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019. Subscription licenses accounted for 98.1% of our license revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to 31.1% of our license revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019. We continue to expect revenues from subscription licenses to become an even more significant portion of our total revenues in the future, resulting in revenues that are expected to be more recurring and predictable. We have achieved significant revenue growth and scale since inception under a perpetual business model. As we have transitioned to a subscription-based business model, and recently due to headwinds caused by the COVID-19 outbreak, revenue growth, if any, has slowed. For the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, subscription revenues were $20.4 million and $7.0 million, respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 191%. For the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, our total revenues were $54.2 million and $56.4 million, respectively. For the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, we had operating losses of $32.7 million and $22.0 million and net losses of $31.4 million and $22.6 million, respectively. Key Performance Indicators and Recent Business Highlights Transition to Subscription-Based Business Model In the first quarter of 2019, we announced our transition to a subscription-based business model which, due to shifts in the mix of perpetual and subscription licenses, has and may continue to produce significant variation in the reported revenues throughout 2020 when compared to the same period in the previous year. Annual Recurring Revenues Annual recurring revenues is a key performance indicator defined as the annualized value of active term-based subscription license contracts and maintenance contracts related to perpetual licenses in effect at the end of that period. Subscription license contracts and maintenance for perpetual license contracts are annualized by dividing the total contract value by the number of days in the term and multiplying the result by 365. As of March 31, 2020 and 2019, ARR was $220.5 million and $138.7 million, respectively, an increase of 59% period over period. The annualized value of contracts is a legal and contractual determination made by assessing the contractual terms with our customers. The annualized value of maintenance contracts is not determined by reference to historical revenues, deferred revenues or any other GAAP financial measure over any period. ARR is not a forecast of future revenues, which can be impacted by contract start and end dates and renewal rates. We expect ARR to continue to increase in absolute dollars as we have completed our transition to a subscription-based business model, but we could encounter significant variations in ARR in a given period due to the shifts in the mix of perpetual and subscription licenses. Components of Operating Results Revenues Our revenues consist of licenses and maintenance and services revenues. 21 Subscription Revenues. Subscription revenues are comprised of time-based licenses whereby customers use our software with related maintenance for a specified period. Subscription licenses are sold on premises with the same functionality as the perpetual licenses and are recognized from sales of subscription licenses (including the associated maintenance) to existing and new customers. Similar to perpetual license revenues, subscription license revenues are recognized at the point of time when the software license has been delivered and the benefit of the asset has transferred. Maintenance associated with subscription licenses is recognized ratably over the term of the agreement and is included as part of the subscription revenues line item. We expect revenues from subscription licenses to become a larger percentage of our total revenues. Due to the shifts in the mix of perpetual and subscription licenses, the timing of the renewals and the subscription renewal rates, we could produce significant variation in the revenues we recognize in a given period. We are focused on acquiring new subscription customers and increasing subscription revenues from our existing customers. Perpetual License Revenues. Perpetual license revenues reflect the revenues recognized from sales of perpetual licenses to new customers and sales of additional perpetual licenses to existing customers who can purchase additional users for existing licenses or purchase new licenses. Our license revenues consist of revenues from perpetual licenses, under which we generally recognize the license fee portion of the arrangement upon delivery as the benefit of the asset has transferred. Maintenance and Services Revenues . Maintenance and services revenues consist of revenues from maintenance agreements of perpetual license sales and, to a lesser extent, professional services. Typically, when purchasing a perpetual license, a customer also purchases a one year maintenance contract for which we charge a percentage of the license fee. Customers may renew, and generally have renewed, their maintenance agreements for a fee that is based upon a percentage of the initial license fee paid. Customers with maintenance agreements are entitled to receive support and unspecified upgrades and enhancements when and if they become available during the maintenance period. We have historically experienced growth in maintenance revenues primarily due to increased perpetual license sales to new and existing customers and high annual retention of existing customers. However, due to our transition to a subscription-based model, we have seen and expect to continue to see less perpetual license revenues in the future and, therefore, less associated maintenance revenues. We recognize the revenues associated with maintenance ratably, on a straight-line basis, over the associated maintenance period. We measure the perpetual license maintenance renewal rate for our customers over a 12-month period, based on a dollar maintenance renewal rate for contracts expiring during that time period. Our perpetual license maintenance renewal rate for each of the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 continued to be over 90%. We also offer professional services focused on training our customers in the use of our products, providing advice on deployment planning, network design, remediation, product configuration and implementation, automating and customizing reports and tuning policies and configuration. We recognize the revenues associated with these professional services, which are generally provided on a time and materials basis, as we deliver the services, provide the training or when the service term has expired. Although professional services have always been a small percentage of our total revenues, we have recently seen, and expect to continue to see, that percentage decline as many of our newer licenses can provide remediation in a more automated way. Our overall maintenance and services revenues is also expected to decline as a result of the transition to a subscription-based model, the increased automated remediation capabilities of our newer products and the strategy of our channel partners taking on more professional services work. The following table sets forth the percentage of our revenues that have been derived from licenses and maintenance and services revenues for the periods presented. Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 (as a percentage of total revenues) Revenues: Subscriptions 37.6 % 12.5 % Perpetual licenses 0.7 27.5 Maintenance and services 61.7 60.0 Total revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 22 Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 (as a percentage of total subscriptions and perpetual licenses revenues) Subscriptions and Perpetual Licenses Revenues: Subscriptions 98.1 % 31.1 % Perpetual licenses 1.9 68.9 Total subscriptions and perpetual licenses revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % Our products are used by a wide range of enterprises, including Fortune 500 corporations and small and medium-sized businesses. Our customers span a broad array of industries and are located in over 80 countries. Cost of Revenues, Gross Profit and Gross Margin Our cost of revenues consists of cost of maintenance and services revenues. Cost of maintenance and services revenues consist primarily of salaries (including payroll tax expense related to stock-based compensation), employee benefits (including commissions and bonuses) and stock-based compensation for our maintenance and services employees; travel expenses; and allocated overhead costs for facilities, IT and depreciation. We recognize expenses related to maintenance and services as they are incurred. We expect that our cost of maintenance and services revenues will increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest in our professional services and customer success teams and programs that support our subscription-based business model. This spending is expected to slow in the short-term due to uncertainties around the COVID-19 pandemic. Gross profit is total revenues less total cost of revenues. Gross margin is gross profit expressed as a percentage of total revenues. Our gross margin will fluctuate from period to period as a result of changes in the mix of perpetual and subscription licenses. Due to the seasonality of our business, the first quarter typically results in the lowest gross margin as our first quarter revenues have historically been the lowest for the year and the majority of our expenses are relatively fixed quarter over quarter. Conversely, the fourth quarter typically results in the highest gross margin as our fourth quarter revenues have historically been the highest for the year. Operating Costs and Expenses Our operating costs and expenses are classified into three categories: research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative. For each category, the largest component is personnel costs, which consists of salaries (including payroll tax expense related to stock-based compensation), employee benefits (including commissions and bonuses) and stock-based compensation. Operating costs and expenses also include allocated overhead costs for facilities, IT and depreciation. Allocated costs for facilities primarily consist of rent and office maintenance. Operating costs and expenses are generally recognized as incurred. As a company, we have always aimed to tie our level of investment in the business to the revenues we expect to achieve, and, given the greater uncertainty we now face, we are actively managing expenses across the business. We expect personnel costs to continue to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to grow our business in the long-term. Research and Development . Research and development expenses primarily consist of personnel costs attributable to our research and development personnel, as well as allocated overhead costs. We expense research and development costs as incurred. We expect that our research and development expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars as we further strengthen our technology platform and invest in the development of both existing and new products. This spending is expected to slow in the short-term due to uncertainties around the COVID-19 pandemic. Sales and Marketing . Sales and marketing expenses are the largest component of our operating costs and expenses and consist primarily of personnel costs, as well as marketing and business development costs, travel expenses, training and education and allocated overhead costs. We expect that sales and marketing expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars in the long-term, as we plan to expand our sales and marketing efforts, both domestically and internationally. This spending is expected to slow in the short-term due to uncertainties around the COVID-19 pandemic. We expect sales and marketing expenses to be our largest category of operating costs and expenses. 23 General and Administrativ e. General and administrative expenses mostly consist of personnel and facility-related costs for our executive, finance, legal, human resources and administrative personnel. Other expenses are comprised of legal, accounting and other consultant fees and other corporate expenses and allocated overhead. We expect that general and administrative expenses will increase in absolute dollars in the long-term as we expand our operations. This spending is expected to slow in the short-term due to uncertainties around the COVID-19 pandemic. Financial Income (Expenses), Net Financial income (expenses), net consist primarily of foreign exchange gains or losses and interest income. Foreign exchange gains or losses relate to our business activities in foreign countries with different operational reporting currencies. As a result of our business activities in foreign countries, we expect that foreign exchange gains or losses will continue to occur due to fluctuations in exchange rates in the countries where we do business. Other factors such as the COVID-19 pandemic and the United Kingdoms exit from the EU, commonly referred to as Brexit," as well as other member countries' public discussions about the possibility of withdrawing from the EU, could also contribute to instability and volatility in the global financial and foreign exchange markets, including volatility in the value of Pounds Sterling, Euros and other currencies. Interest income represents interest received on our cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and short-term deposits. Income Taxes We operate in several tax jurisdictions and are subject to taxes in each country or jurisdiction in which we conduct business. Earnings from our non-U.S. activities are subject to local country income tax and may be subject to U.S. income tax. To date, on a consolidated basis, we have incurred accumulated net losses and have not recorded any U.S. federal tax provisions. Because of our history of U.S. net operating losses, we have established a full valuation allowance against potential future benefits for deferred tax assets, including loss carryforwards, in that jurisdiction; however, we have recorded a net deferred tax asset of $0.2 million as of March 31, 2020 for foreign jurisdictions. Our income tax provision could be significantly impacted by estimates surrounding our uncertain tax positions and changes to our valuation allowance in future periods. We reevaluate the judgments surrounding our estimates and make adjustments as appropriate each reporting period. Our Israeli subsidiary currently qualifies as a Beneficiary Enterprise which, upon fulfillment of certain conditions, allows it to qualify for a reduced tax rate based on the beneficiary program guidelines. In addition, we are subject to the regular examinations of our income tax returns by different tax authorities. For example, we are currently subject to a withholding tax audit in Israel and a tax examination in France. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. The U.S. Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act) was signed into law on March 27, 2020. The CARES Act includes, among other things, refundable payroll tax credits, deferment of employer side social security payments, modifications to the net interest deduction limitations, and technical amendments regarding the income tax depreciation of qualified improvement property placed in service after December 31, 2017. We are currently evaluating the implications, if any, of the CARES Act, and, therefore, an estimate of the impact to income taxes is not yet available. We are also monitoring for other similar tax relief programs provided by the governments of our non-US subsidiaries. 24 Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 The following tables are a summary of our consolidated statements of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 in dollars and as a percentage of our total revenues. Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 (unaudited) (in thousands) Statement of Operations Data: Revenues: Subscriptions $ 20,365 $ 7,005 Perpetual licenses 388 15,521 Maintenance and services 33,423 33,834 Total revenues 54,176 56,360 Cost of revenues 10,180 8,326 Gross profit 43,996 48,034 Operating costs and expenses: Research and development 22,688 18,768 Sales and marketing 42,580 41,996 General and administrative 11,398 9,271 Total operating expenses 76,666 70,035 Operating loss (32,670) (22,001) Financial income (expenses), net 1,453 (128) Loss before income taxes (31,217) (22,129) Income taxes (213) (510) Net loss $ (31,430) $ (22,639) Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 ( as a percentage of total revenues) Statement of Operations Data: Revenues: Subscriptions 37.6 % 12.5 % Perpetual licenses 0.7 27.5 Maintenance and services 61.7 60.0 Total revenues 100.0 100.0 Cost of revenues 18.8 14.8 Gross profit 81.2 85.2 Operating costs and expenses: Research and development 41.9 33.3 Sales and marketing 78.6 74.5 General and administrative 21.0 16.4 Total operating expenses 141.5 124.2 Operating loss (60.3) (39.0) 25 Financial income (expenses), net 2.7 (0.3) Loss before income taxes (57.6) (39.3) Income taxes (0.4) (0.9) Net loss (58.0) % (40.2) % Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 % Change (unaudited) (in thousands) Revenues: Subscriptions $ 20,365 $ 7,005 190.7 % Perpetual licenses 388 15,521 (97.5) % Maintenance and services 33,423 33,834 (1.2) % Total revenues $ 54,176 $ 56,360 (3.9) % Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 (as a percentage of total revenues) Revenues: Subscriptions 37.6 % 12.5 % Perpetual licenses 0.7 % 27.5 % Maintenance and services 61.7 % 60.0 % Total revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 (as a percentage of total subscriptions and perpetual licenses revenues) Subscriptions and Perpetual Licenses Revenues: Subscriptions 98.1 % 31.1 % Perpetual licenses 1.9 % 68.9 % Total subscriptions and perpetual licenses revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % Our transition to a subscription-based model has resulted in a decline in perpetual license revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2020. Subscription revenues increased significantly from $7.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 to $20.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020. The increase in subscription revenues was driven by our customers demand for a higher number of licenses than the number that we historically sold with perpetual license sales. The revenue headwinds associated with the transition to a subscription-based model and the impact of COVID-19 have resulted in a decline in total revenues for three months ended March 31, 2020. ARR was $220.5 million and $138.7 million as of March 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, representing an increase of 59%. The slight decrease in maintenance and services revenues was primarily due to our accelerated transition to a subscription business and due to the strategic shift of having our channel partners take on more professional services work. In each of the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, our perpetual license maintenance renewal rate continued to be over 90%. As of March 31, 2020 and 2019, 76% and 73% of our 26 customers, respectively, had purchased products in two or more families. As of March 31, 2020 and 2019, 46% and 41% of our customers, respectively, purchased products in three or more families. Cost of Revenues and Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 % Change (unaudited) (in thousands) Cost of revenues $ 10,180 $ 8,326 22.3 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 (as a percentage of total revenues) Total gross margin 81.2 % 85.2 % The increase in cost of revenues was primarily related to an increase of $1.6 million in salaries and benefits and stock-based compensation expense due to increased headcount for customer success personnel related to the transition to a subscription-based business and support personnel to support our high maintenance renewal rate and a $0.2 million increase in facilities and allocated overhead costs. Operating Costs and Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 % Change (unaudited) (in thousands) Operating costs and expenses: Research and development $ 22,688 $ 18,768 20.9 % Sales and marketing 42,580 41,996 1.4 % General and administrative 11,398 9,271 22.9 % Total operating expenses $ 76,666 $ 70,035 9.5 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 (as a percentage of total revenues) Operating costs and expenses: Research and development 41.9 % 33.3 % Sales and marketing 78.6 % 74.5 % General and administrative 21.0 % 16.4 % Total operating expenses 141.5 % 124.2 % The increase in research and development expenses was primarily related to an increase of $3.2 million in salaries and benefits and stock-based compensation expense resulting from increased headcount as part of our focus on enhancing and developing our existing and new products and a $0.7 million increase in facilities and allocated overhead costs. 27 The increase in sales and marketing expenses was primarily related to a $0.9 million increase in salaries and benefits and stock-based compensation expense and a $0.2 million increase related to facilities and allocated overhead costs. This was partially offset by a $0.5 million decrease in marketing related expenses primarily resulting from less travel and fewer events as a result of the global spread of COVID-19. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily related to an increase of $1.6 million in salaries and benefits and stock-based compensation expense due to increased headcount to support the overall growth of our business and a $0.5 million increase in other expenses predominately relating to IT. Financial Income (Expenses), Net Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 % Change (unaudited) (in thousands) Financial income (expenses), net $ 1,453 $ (128) 1,235.2 % Financial income, net for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was primarily due to foreign currency gains and interest income. Financial expenses, net for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was primarily due to foreign currency losses. Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 % Change (unaudited) (in thousands) Income taxes $ (213) $ (510) 58.2 % Income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 were comprised primarily of foreign income taxes. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table shows our cash flows from operating activities, investing activities and financing activities for the stated periods: Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 (unaudited) (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 3,874 $ 14,055 Net cash provided by investing activities 414 5,933 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 4,316 (4,234) Increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 8,604 $ 15,754 On March 31, 2020, our cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and short-term deposits of $126.3 million were held for working capital purposes and were invested primarily in marketable securities and short-term deposits. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, short-term deposits and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to fund our operations and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. Following investments we made in two leasehold improvement projects in 2019, we expect our investments in capital expenditures in 2020 to decrease, although we will still invest to support the business and operations as needed. Our future 28 capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth, timing of renewals and subscription renewal rates, the expansion of our sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts and expansion into new geographic locations, the timing of introductions of new software products and enhancements to existing software products, the continuing market acceptance of our software offerings and our use of cash to pay for acquisitions, if any. Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities is driven by sales of our products less costs and expenses, primarily payroll and related expenses, and adjusted for certain non-cash items, mainly depreciation, stock-based compensation, amortization of deferred commissions and amortization of operating lease right-of-use asset, and changes in operating assets and liabilities. Changes in operating assets and liabilities are driven mainly by collection of accounts receivable from the sales of our software products and deferred revenues which represents unearned amounts billed to our channel partners, related to these sales. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, cash inflows from our operating activities were $3.9 million. We have observed two seasonal patterns that impact our net cash provided by operating activities. First, a majority of our sales are made during the last three weeks of the quarter. Second, the highest dollar amount of sales of our products and services occurs in the fourth quarter. Consequently, we end the fourth quarter with our highest accounts receivable balance of any quarter which in turn generates the greatest amount of collections in the following quarter. In addition, there is a negative sequential revenue growth in the first quarter which results in a relatively lower amount collected during the second quarter. These seasonal trends also impact our operating loss because the majority of our expenses are relatively fixed in the short-term. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, sources of cash inflows were from changes in our working capital, including a $36.8 million decrease in accounts receivable. Our days sales outstanding (DSO) for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was 84. This was partially offset by $11.2 million from our net loss excluding non-cash charges, a $12.6 million decrease in deferred revenues, a $6.9 million decrease in accrued expenses and other liabilities, a $1.9 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets (including deferred commissions), a $0.2 million decrease in trade payables and a $0.1 million increase in other long-term assets. For the three months ended March 31, 2019, cash inflows from our operating activities were $14.1 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2019, sources of cash inflows were from changes in our working capital, including a $41.4 million decrease in accounts receivable. Our DSO for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was 74. Additional sources of cash inflows were from a $0.2 million increase in other long-term liabilities. This was partially offset by $7.3 million from our net loss excluding non-cash charges, a $7.4 million decrease in accrued expenses and other liabilities, a $5.5 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets (including deferred commissions), a $5.4 million decrease in deferred revenues and a $2.0 million decrease in trade payables. Investing Activities Our investing activities consist primarily of capital expenditures to purchase property and equipment, leasehold improvements, sale and purchases of short-term deposits and changes in our marketable securities. In the future, we expect to continue to incur capital expenditures to support our expanding operations. During the three months ended March 31, 2020, net cash provided by investing activities of $0.4 million was primarily attributable to a $7.8 million decrease in marketable securities partially offset by a $4.8 million increase in short-term deposits and $2.6 million in capital expenditures to support our growth during the period including hardware, software, office equipment and leasehold improvements mainly in connection with new office space. During the three months ended March 31, 2019, net cash provided by investing activities of $5.9 million was primarily attributable to a $11.0 million decrease in deposits and marketable securities partially offset by $5.1 million in capital expenditures to support our growth during the period including hardware, software, office equipment and leasehold improvements mainly in connection with new office space. Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, net cash provided by financing activities of $4.3 million and net cash used in financing activities of $4.2 million, respectively, was attributable to net proceeds (withholdings) from employee stock plans. 29 Promissory Note On March 31, 2014, we entered into a promissory note and related security documents with Bank Leumi USA, which we have extended a number of times. We may borrow up to $7.0 million against certain of our accounts receivable outstanding amount, based on several conditions, at an annual interest rate of the Wall Street Journal Prime Rate plus 0.05%, provided that the annual interest rate applicable to advances will not be lower than 4.10%. As of March 31, 2020, that borrowing rate amounted to 4.10%. This promissory note enables us, among other things, to engage in foreign currency hedging transactions with Bank Leumi USA to manage our exposure to foreign currency risk without restricted cash requirements. We may borrow under the promissory note until November 15, 2020 at which time the principal sum of each such loan, together with accrued and unpaid interest payable, will become due and payable. As of March 31, 2020, we had no balance outstanding under the promissory note. As part of the transaction, we granted the lender a security interest in our personal property, excluding intellectual property and other intangible assets. The promissory note also contains customary events of default. Contractual Payment Obligations Our principal commitments primarily consist of obligations under leases for office space and motor vehicles. Aggregate minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable leases as of March 31, 2020 for the upcoming years were as follows: Payments Due by Period 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Thereafter Total (in thousands) Operating lease obligations $ 8,365 $ 9,679 $ 9,061 $ 8,861 $ 8,470 $ 29,949 $ 74,385 We have obligations related to unrecognized tax benefit liabilities totaling $2.8 million and others related to severance pay, which have been excluded from the table above as we do not believe it is practicable to make reliable estimates of the periods in which payments for these obligations will be made. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2020, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The preparation of consolidated financial statements also requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. We believe that the accounting policies discussed below are critical to understanding our historical and future performance, as these policies relate to the more significant areas involving managements judgments and estimates. Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that we consider the most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations because they require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of the matters that are inherently uncertain. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted We have reviewed recent accounting pronouncements and concluded that they are either not applicable to our business or that no material effect is expected on the consolidated financial statements as a result of their future adoption. 30