Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2020. On February 8, 2021, we announced a three-for-one split of our common stock to stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 12, 2021. Trading of our common stock began on a split-adjusted basis on March 15, 2021. All common stock and per share data have been retroactively adjusted for the impact of the split. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. The statements contained in this report that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Forward-looking statements are often identified by the use of words such as, but not limited to, anticipate, believe, can, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, seek, should, strategy, target, will, would and similar expressions or variations intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management based on information currently available to management. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other important factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified below and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors included under Part II, Item 1A below. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. COVID-19 and the Digital Transformation In December 2019, COVID-19 was first reported in China; in January 2020, the WHO declared it a Public Health Emergency of International Concern; and in March 2020, the WHO declared it a pandemic. Although some countries have demonstrated marked improvements in the development and distribution of vaccinations, which in turn appear to have slowed the spread of COVID-19, the duration and severity of the pandemic nonetheless remain uncertain and difficult to predict. The COVID-19 pandemic and the measures taken by many governments around the world in response could in the future meaningfully impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. Regardless, we believe that COVID-19 accelerated the global digital transformation. As the digital transformation gains traction across almost all industries around the globe, it changes the ways we live and work, and impacts how data is stored, managed and accessed. This transformation has fueled, and we expect will continue to fuel, the secular trends that drive demand for our products, including the shift to the cloud; cybercrime; and compliance with data-driven regulations. These trends impact the way organizations operate which have increased our long-term opportunity to help our customers protect their data, detect threats and achieve regulatory compliance. Companies around the world are focused on the elevated risks associated with having a highly distributed workforce collaborating on multiple platforms like Office 365 and Microsoft Teams and we believe, even after the virus is contained, this trend will continue in the long-term and that we are well positioned to capitalize on the opportunity ahead. As companies understand that a data-centric approach to security is critical and that the aforementioned elevated risks are here for the long-term, we have seen significant customer engagement and inbound interest, and in the first quarter of 2021, we continued to see some of this interest convert into new business or the expansion of existing business. We currently offer more than 25 licenses across our six product families, and since commencing our transition to a subscription model in the beginning of 2019, we have seen a significant increase in the number of licenses purchased by new customers, and in the engagement of our existing customers who are adopting more licenses. As of March 31, 2021, 66% of our customers with 500 employees or more had purchased four or more licenses, compared to 55% a year ago, and 32% purchased six or more licenses, compared to 21% a year ago. We believe the increase in these metrics underscores the logic behind our transition to a subscription model and confirms how we are unleashing the potential of our platform. This is also reflected in annual recurring revenues ("ARR"), which as of March 31, 2021 grew 39% year-over-year to $306.9 million. Additionally, renewal rates of maintenance on perpetual licenses continued to be over 90% for the quarter ended March 31, 2021. As a result, 23 virtually all of our revenues today are recurring, which provides more visibility into future revenues and places us in a stronger position. Overview Varonis is a pioneer in data security and analytics, fighting a different battle than conventional cybersecurity companies. We are pioneers because over a decade ago, we recognized that enterprise capacity to create and share data far exceeded its capacity to protect it. We believed the vast movement of information from analog to digital mediums combined with increasing information dependence would change both the global economy and the risk profiles of corporations and governments. Since then our focus has been on using innovation to address the cyber-implications of this movement, creating software that provides new ways to track, alert and protect data wherever it is stored. Data continues to amass in new and existing data stores both on premises and in the cloud, a trend we have seen accelerate as companies around the world embark on a wave of digital transformation initiatives. As these data stores grow, the relationships between the data they hold and the users that collaborate with it grow more complex, making those relationships difficult to visualize, understand and control without automation. Because enterprises now use many different combinations of data stores and require different levels of protection, our offering provides coverage flexibility through software licensing. We aim to keep pace with the relentless growth and complexity of data, starting in 2005 with a single license, offering ten licenses at the time of our initial public offering in 2014, and today offering more than 25 integrated licenses across the most common on premises and cloud data stores. We plan to continue investing in product development to deliver new products in the future. Our software specializes in data protection, threat detection and response and compliance. Varonis software enables enterprises to protect data stored on premises and in the cloud: sensitive files and emails; confidential personal data belonging to customers, patients and employees; financial records; strategic and product plans; and other intellectual property. Recognizing the complexities of securing data, we have built an integrated platform for security and analytics to simplify and streamline security and data management. The Varonis Data Security Platform, built on patented technology, helps enterprises protect data against cyberattacks from both internal and external threats. Our products enable enterprises to analyze data, account activity and user behavior to detect attacks. Our Data Security Platform prevents or limits unauthorized use of sensitive information, prevents potential cyberattacks and limits others by automatically locking down data, allowing access to those who need it and automating the removal of stale data when it is no longer useful. Our products efficiently sustain a secure state with automation and address additional important use cases including data protection, data governance, zero trust, compliance, data privacy, classification and threat detection and response. Our Data Security Platform is driven by a proprietary technology, our Metadata Framework, that extracts critical metadata, or data about data, from an enterprises IT infrastructure. Our Data Security Platform uses this contextual information to map functional relationships among employees, data objects, systems, content and usage. We started operations in 2005 with a vision to make enterprise data more accessible, manageable, secure and actionable. We began offering our flagship product, DatAdvantage, which provides centralized visibility for enterprise data, in 2006. Since then we have continued to invest in innovation and have consistently introduced new products and software features to our customers. In 2017, we introduced the Automation Engine to allow customers to automatically repair and maintain file systems so that organizations are less vulnerable to attacks and security breaches, more compliant and consistently meeting a least privilege model. We enhanced DatAlert, which was originally introduced in 2013 to monitor and alert on sensitive data and file activity, with DatAlert Analytics Rewind to allow customers to analyze past user and data activity to identify security breaches that may have occurred in the past and pre-emptively tune out false positives. We updated our web UI for DatAlert and added new threat models to detect suspicious mailbox, Exchange and Exchange Online behaviors, password resets and unusual activity from personal devices. We introduced a new security dashboard in DatAlert, along with enhanced behavioral analytics, geolocation and more to make it easier than ever to perform security investigations and forensics. In 2017, we also released GDPR Patterns, part of the Data Classification Engine family, to help enterprises identify data that falls under the EU GDPR and expanded our offerings that can help enterprises meet compliance and regulation requirements. In 2018, we introduced Varonis Edge to extend our proactive security approach, enabling customers to spot signs of attack at the perimeter by analyzing telemetry from DNS, VPN and web proxy. We introduced Data Classification Labels to integrate with Microsoft Information Protection (MIP) and enable customers to better classify, track and secure files across enterprise data stores. We enhanced DatAnswers, a secure enterprise search solution for enterprise data that delivers highly relevant and secure search results to enterprise employees and which was originally introduced in 2014, to address additional compliance requirements from new data privacy laws and standards. We added classification categories to the Data 24 Classification Engine, to better identify and analyze regulated data like GDPR, PII, PCI and PHI. We updated the DataPrivilege UI for improved usability and added classification categories making it easier to see who can access regulated data. We updated our web UI and introduced new features to DatAlert, including new threat models to combat cyberattacks, support for more data stores and optimizations to make DatAlert faster and more intuitive for security investigations. In 2019, we introduced updates to our existing products to include new dashboards to highlight cloud, Active Directory and GDPR security risks so that customers can more easily identify critical risk in their hybrid environments, including vulnerable user accounts, at-risk cloud data and potential compliance violations. We extended our cloud support to include Box, added threat intelligence to our security insights, built incident response playbooks directly into the UI, and made usability and performance improvements. We also added classification functionality to help enterprises automatically discover and classify data that falls under data covered by the California Consumer Privacy Act ("CCPA"). In the second quarter of 2020, we introduced an update to our platform to increase visibility into potential security issues related to remote work. Our Remote Work Update included a new dashboard to help customers spot unusual VPN, DNS and web activity, built-in threat hunting queries to accelerate investigations, deeper visibility into Microsoft Teams, and additional threat models for Office 365. In the fourth quarter of 2020, we completed the acquisition of Polyrize, a software provider that maps and analyzes the relationships between users and data across a number of cloud applications and services, including Google Drive, Salesforce, Okta, GitHub, Slack, AWS, Jira and others, making it simple for security teams to control access to cloud data and infrastructure and analyze cloud activity. In the first quarter of 2021, we introduced an update to our platform to help customers combat insider and collaboration risks in Microsoft 365. The update increases insight into organization-wide exposures in Microsoft 365, adds new threat detection capabilities in Azure AD, adds support for additional Network Attached Storage (NAS) solutions and versions, and enhances search granularity for locating sensitive and personal data. In 2020, we successfully completed the strategic shift to a subscription-based business model, which allows our customers to better unleash the power of our platform through faster adoption of our integrated products. We believe the transition from a perpetual-based model to a subscription-based model has positioned us well for the future, and, although revenues are still front-end loaded, they are more predictable and recurring in nature. We currently have six product families, consisting of DatAdvantage, DatAlert, Data Classification Engine, DataPrivilege, Data Transport Engine and DatAnswers with over twenty-five licenses under these product families. As of March 31, 2021, 66% of our customers with 500 employees or more had purchased four or more licenses, compared to 55% a year ago, and 32% purchased six or more licenses, compared to 21% a year ago. Additionally, as of March 31, 2021 and 2020, 100.0% of our customers had purchased DatAdvantage; 58.5% and 55.0% of our customers, respectively, had purchased DatAlert; 58.1% and 54.5% of our customers, respectively, had purchased Data Classification Engine; 15.6% of our customers had purchased DataPrivilege; 10.5% and 9.2% of our customers, respectively, had purchased Data Transport Engine; and 3.3% and 2.6% of our customers, respectively, had purchased DatAnswers. Our perpetual license maintenance renewal rate for each of the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020 continued to be over 90%. Our key strategies to ensure and maintain a high subscription and maintenance renewal rate include focusing on the quality and reliability of our customer service and support to ensure our customers receive value from our products and providing software upgrades and enhancements when and if they are available. We sell substantially all of our products and services to channel partners, including distributors and resellers, which sell to end-user customers, which we refer to in this report as our customers. We believe that our sales model, which combines the leverage of a channel sales model with our highly trained and professional sales force, has and will continue to play a major role in our ability to grow and to successfully deliver our unique value proposition for enterprise data. While our products serve customers of all sizes, in all industries and all geographies, the marketing focus and majority of our sales focus is on targeting organizations with 1,000 users or more who can make larger initial purchases with us and, over time, have a greater potential lifetime value. Our customers span leading firms in the financial services, public, healthcare, industrial, insurance, energy and utilities, technology, consumer and retail, media and entertainment and education sectors. We believe our existing customer base serves as a strong source of incremental revenues given our broad platform of products, their growing volumes and complexity of enterprise data and associated security concerns. We will continue our focus on targeting organizations with 1,000 users or more who can make larger purchases with us initially and over time. 25 We believe there is a significant long-term growth opportunity in both domestic and foreign markets, which could include any organization that uses file shares, intranets and email for collaboration, regardless of region. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, approximately 71% of our revenues were derived from North America, while EMEA accounted for approximately 27% of our revenues and Rest of World (ROW) accounted for approximately 2% of our revenues. Additionally, total revenues grew approximately 38% for the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared with the three months ended March 31, 2020. We continue to expect sales growth in North America and international expansion to be key components of our long-term growth strategy. We continue to expand our domestic and international operations as part of our long-term growth strategy. While the expansion of our domestic operations is focused primarily on our underpenetrated territories, the expansion of our international operations depends in particular on our ability to hire, integrate and retain local sales personnel in these international markets, acquire new channel partners and implement an effective marketing strategy. Given the nominal amount of our ROW revenues, our ROW revenue growth rates have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future based on the timing of deal closures. In addition, the further expansion of our international operations will increase our sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses and will subject us to a variety of risks and challenges, including those related to economic and political conditions in each region, compliance with foreign laws and regulations, and compliance with domestic laws and regulations applicable to our international operations. We derive almost all of our revenues from subscription sales and renewals of maintenance contracts and, to a lesser extent, from professional services and perpetual license sales of our products. Subscription revenues are comprised of time-based licenses whereby new and existing customers use our software with related maintenance for a specified period. Subscription licenses accounted for 99% and 98% our license revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, as we successfully completed the strategic shift to a subscription-based business model resulting in revenues that are expected to be more recurring and predictable. We have achieved significant revenue growth and scale since inception under a perpetual business model and have continued to grow our revenues in the three months ended March 31, 2021 under our new subscription-based business model. For the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, subscription revenues were $44.8 million and $20.4 million, respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 120%. For the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, our total revenues were $74.8 million and $54.2 million, respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 38%. For the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, we had operating losses of $34.1 million and $32.7 million and net losses of $35.7 million and $31.4 million, respectively. Key Performance Indicators and Recent Business Highlights Annual Recurring Revenues Annual recurring revenues is a key performance indicator defined as the annualized value of active term-based subscription license contracts and maintenance contracts related to perpetual licenses in effect at the end of that period. Subscription license contracts and maintenance for perpetual license contracts are annualized by dividing the total contract value by the number of days in the term and multiplying the result by 365. As of March 31, 2021 and 2020, ARR was $306.9 million and $220.5 million, respectively, an increase of 39% period over period. The annualized value of contracts is a legal and contractual determination made by assessing the contractual terms with our customers. The annualized value of maintenance contracts is not determined by reference to historical revenues, deferred revenues or any other GAAP financial measure over any period. ARR is not a forecast of future revenues and can be impacted by contract start and end dates and renewal rates. We expect ARR to continue to increase in absolute dollars. Components of Operating Results Revenues Our revenues consist of licenses and maintenance and services revenues. Subscription Revenues. Subscription revenues are comprised of time-based licenses whereby customers use our software with related maintenance for a specified period. Subscription licenses are sold on premises and are recognized from sales of subscription licenses (including the associated maintenance) to existing and new customers. Similar to perpetual license revenues, subscription license revenues are recognized at the point of time when the software license has been delivered and the benefit of the asset has transferred. Maintenance associated with subscription licenses is recognized ratably over the term of the agreement and is included as part of the subscription revenues line item. We continue to expect revenues from subscription 26 licenses to become an even more significant portion of our total revenues in the future, resulting in revenues that are expected to be more recurring and predictable. Due to the timing of the renewals and the subscription renewal rates, we could produce significant variation in the revenues we recognize in a given period. We are focused on acquiring new subscription customers and increasing subscription revenues from our existing customers. Maintenance and Services Revenues. Maintenance and services revenues consist of revenues from maintenance agreements of perpetual license sales and, to a lesser extent, professional services. The majority of maintenance revenues is derived from renewals of maintenance agreements. Historically, when purchasing a perpetual license, customers also purchased a one-year maintenance contract of which customers may renew, and generally have renewed, for a fee that is based upon a percentage of the initial perpetual license fee. Customers with maintenance agreements are entitled to receive support and unspecified upgrades and enhancements when and if they become available during the maintenance period. We recognize the revenues associated with maintenance ratably, on a straight-line basis, over the associated maintenance period. We measure the perpetual license maintenance renewal rate for our customers over a 12-month period, based on a dollar maintenance renewal rate for contracts expiring during that time period. Our perpetual license maintenance renewal rate for each of the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020 continued to be over 90%. We have historically experienced growth in maintenance revenues primarily due to increased perpetual license sales to new and existing customers and high renewal rates. However, due to our transition to a subscription-based model, we have seen and expect to continue to see insignificant perpetual license revenues in the future and, therefore, less associated maintenance revenues. We also offer professional services focused on training our customers in the use of our products, providing advice on deployment planning, network design, remediation, product configuration and implementation, automating and customizing reports and tuning policies and configuration. We recognize the revenues associated with these professional services, which are generally provided on a time and materials basis, as we deliver the services, provide the training or when the service term has expired. Although professional services have always been a small percentage of our total revenues, we have recently seen, and expect to continue to see, that percentage decline as many of our newer licenses can provide remediation in a more automated way and due to our planned long-term strategy to allow our channel partners to take on more professional services work. As such, our overall maintenance and services revenues is also expected to continue to decline. Perpetual License Revenues. Perpetual license revenues, sold to new or existing customers, consist of revenues from perpetual licenses, under which we generally recognize the license fee portion of the arrangement upon delivery as the benefit of the asset has transferred. Perpetual licenses have the same functionality as subscriptions. Due to the successful transition to a subscription-based business model, perpetual license revenues have meaningfully decreased and now represent an immaterial percentage of our total revenues. The following table sets forth the percentage of our revenues that have been derived from licenses and maintenance and services revenues for the periods presented. Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 (as a percentage of total revenues) Revenues: Subscriptions 59.9 % 37.6 % Maintenance and services 39.7 61.7 Perpetual licenses 0.4 0.7 Total revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 27 Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 (as a percentage of total subscriptions and perpetual licenses revenues) Subscriptions and Perpetual Licenses Revenues: Subscriptions 99.4 % 98.1 % Perpetual licenses 0.6 1.9 Total subscriptions and perpetual licenses revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % Our products are used by a wide range of enterprises, including Fortune 500 corporations and small and medium-sized businesses. Our customers span a broad array of industries and are located in over 85 countries. Cost of Revenues, Gross Profit and Gross Margin Our cost of revenues consists of cost of maintenance and services revenues. Cost of maintenance and services revenues consist primarily of salaries (including payroll tax expense related to stock-based compensation), employee benefits (including commissions and bonuses) and stock-based compensation for our maintenance and services employees; travel expenses; and allocated overhead costs for facilities, IT and depreciation. We recognize expenses related to maintenance and services as they are incurred. We expect that our cost of maintenance and services revenues will increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest in our customer success and professional services teams and programs that support our subscription-based business model and our overall renewals. Gross profit is total revenues less total cost of revenues. Gross margin is gross profit expressed as a percentage of total revenues. As the majority of our expenses are relatively fixed quarter over quarter and due to the seasonality of our business, the first quarter typically results in the lowest gross margin as our first quarter revenues have historically been the lowest for the year. Conversely, the fourth quarter typically results in the highest gross margin as our fourth quarter revenues have historically been the highest for the year. Operating Costs and Expenses Our operating costs and expenses are classified into three categories: research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative. For each category, the largest component is personnel costs, which consists of salaries (including payroll tax expense related to stock-based compensation), employee benefits (including commissions and bonuses) and stock-based compensation. Operating costs and expenses also include allocated overhead costs for facilities, IT and depreciation. Allocated costs for facilities primarily consist of rent and office maintenance. Operating costs and expenses are generally recognized as incurred. As a company, we have always aimed to tie our level of investment in the business to the revenues we expect to achieve and we actively manage expenses across the business. We expect personnel costs to continue to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to grow our business. Research and Development . Research and development expenses primarily consist of personnel costs attributable to our research and development personnel, as well as allocated overhead costs. We expense research and development costs as incurred. We expect that our research and development expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars as we further strengthen our technology platform and invest in the development of both existing and new products through the hiring of talented and capable employees. Sales and Marketing . Sales and marketing expenses are the largest component of our operating costs and expenses and consist primarily of personnel costs, as well as marketing and business development costs, travel expenses, training and education and allocated overhead costs. We expect that sales and marketing expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars as we plan to expand our sales and marketing efforts, both domestically and internationally. We also expect sales and marketing expenses to continue to be our largest category of operating costs and expenses. General and Administrative . General and administrative expenses mostly consist of personnel and facility-related costs for our executive, finance, legal, human resources and administrative personnel. Other expenses are comprised of legal, accounting and other consultant fees and other corporate expenses and allocated overhead. We expect that general and administrative expenses will increase in absolute dollars as we expand our operations. 28 Financial Income (Expenses), Net Financial income (expenses), net consist primarily of foreign exchange gains or losses, amortization of debt discount and issuance costs, interest expense and interest income. Foreign exchange gains or losses relate to our business activities in foreign countries with different operational reporting currencies. As a result of our business activities in foreign countries, we expect that foreign exchange gains or losses will continue to occur due to fluctuations in exchange rates in the countries where we do business. Other factors such as the COVID-19 pandemic, the United Kingdoms exit from the EU, commonly referred to as Brexit," as well as other member countries' public discussions about the possibility of withdrawing from the EU, and other economic instability could also contribute to volatility in the global financial and foreign exchange markets, including volatility in the value of Pounds Sterling, Euros and other currencies. Amortization of debt discount and issuance costs relate to the 2025 Notes we issued in May 2020 and the Credit Facility we entered into August 2020. Interest expense consists of the contractual interest expenses associated with the 2025 Notes. Interest income represents interest received on our cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and short-term deposits. Income Taxes We operate in several tax jurisdictions and are subject to taxes in each country or jurisdiction in which we conduct business. Earnings from our non-U.S. activities are subject to local country income tax and may be subject to U.S. income tax. To date, on a consolidated basis, we have incurred accumulated net losses and have not recorded any U.S. federal tax provisions. Because of our history of U.S. net operating losses, we have established a full valuation allowance against potential future benefits for deferred tax assets, including loss carryforwards, in that jurisdiction; however, we have recorded a net deferred tax asset of $1.1 million as of March 31, 2021 for foreign jurisdictions. Our income tax provision could be significantly impacted by estimates surrounding our uncertain tax positions and changes to our valuation allowance in future periods. We reevaluate the judgments surrounding our estimates and make adjustments as appropriate each reporting period. In addition, we are subject to the regular examinations of our income tax returns by different tax authorities. For example, we are currently subject to tax audits in Israel. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. 29 Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 and 2020 The following tables are a summary of our consolidated statements of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020 in dollars and as a percentage of our total revenues. Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 (unaudited) (in thousands) Statement of Operations Data: Revenues: Subscriptions $ 44,828 $ 20,365 Maintenance and services 29,671 33,423 Perpetual licenses 286 388 Total revenues 74,785 54,176 Cost of revenues 13,482 10,180 Gross profit 61,303 43,996 Operating costs and expenses: Research and development 30,062 22,688 Sales and marketing 51,493 42,580 General and administrative 13,823 11,398 Total operating expenses 95,378 76,666 Operating loss (34,075) (32,670) Financial income (expenses), net (1,022) 1,453 Loss before income taxes (35,097) (31,217) Income taxes (559) (213) Net loss $ (35,656) $ (31,430) Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 ( as a percentage of total revenues) Statement of Operations Data: Revenues: Subscriptions 59.9 % 37.6 % Maintenance and services 39.7 61.7 Perpetual licenses 0.4 0.7 Total revenues 100.0 100.0 Cost of revenues 18.0 18.8 Gross profit 82.0 81.2 Operating costs and expenses: Research and development 40.2 41.9 Sales and marketing 68.9 78.6 General and administrative 18.5 21.0 Total operating expenses 127.6 141.5 Operating loss (45.6) (60.3) 30 Financial income (expenses), net (1.3) 2.7 Loss before income taxes (46.9) (57.6) Income taxes (0.8) (0.4) Net loss (47.7) % (58.0) % Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change (unaudited) (in thousands) Revenues: Subscriptions $ 44,828 $ 20,365 120.1 % Maintenance and services 29,671 33,423 (11.2) % Perpetual licenses 286 388 (26.3) % Total revenues $ 74,785 $ 54,176 38.0 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 (as a percentage of total revenues) Revenues: Subscriptions 59.9 % 37.6 % Maintenance and services 39.7 % 61.7 % Perpetual licenses 0.4 % 0.7 % Total revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 (as a percentage of total subscriptions and perpetual licenses revenues) Subscriptions and Perpetual Licenses Revenues: Subscriptions 99.4 % 98.1 % Perpetual licenses 0.6 % 1.9 % Total subscriptions and perpetual licenses revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 31 Subscription revenues increased 120% from $20.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 to $44.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase in subscription revenues was driven by both new customer acquisitions and existing customers expanding their licenses and our high subscription renewal rate. Total revenues increased approximately 38% for the three months ended March 31, 2021 as compared to 2020. ARR was $306.9 million and $220.5 million as of March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, representing an increase of 39%. The anticipated decrease in maintenance and services revenues was due to our accelerated transition to a subscription business. As perpetual license revenues in 2020 were de minimis, and since maintenance of perpetual license revenues are generally recognized over a twelve month period, we expected, and continue to expect less associated maintenance revenues. In each of the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, our perpetual license maintenance renewal rate continued to be over 90%. In addition, newer licenses providing remediation in a more automated way and the long-term strategic shift of having our channel partners take on more professional services work will continue to reduce our services revenues. As of March 31, 2021, 66% of our customers with 500 employees or more had purchased four or more licenses, compared to 55% a year ago, and 32% purchased six or more licenses, compared to 21% a year ago. Cost of Revenues and Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change (unaudited) (in thousands) Cost of revenues $ 13,482 $ 10,180 32.4 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 (as a percentage of total revenues) Total gross margin 82.0 % 81.2 % The increase in cost of revenues was primarily related to an increase of $2.6 million in salaries and benefits and stock-based compensation expense due to increased headcount for customer success and support personnel to ensure high customer satisfaction and maintain our strong renewal rates. The increase was also due to a $0.8 million increase in amortization of acquired intangible assets and facilities and allocated overhead costs which was partially offset by a $0.2 million decrease in expenses related to COVID-19, including reductions in travel. Operating Costs and Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change (unaudited) (in thousands) Operating costs and expenses: Research and development $ 30,062 $ 22,688 32.5 % Sales and marketing 51,493 42,580 20.9 % General and administrative 13,823 11,398 21.3 % Total operating expenses $ 95,378 $ 76,666 24.4 % 32 Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 (as a percentage of total revenues) Operating costs and expenses: Research and development 40.2 % 41.9 % Sales and marketing 68.9 % 78.6 % General and administrative 18.5 % 21.0 % Total operating expenses 127.6 % 141.5 % The increase in research and development expenses was primarily related to an increase of $7.7 million in salaries and benefits and stock-based compensation expense resulting from increased headcount as part of our focus on enhancing and developing our existing and new products, including personnel costs related to our acquisition in the fourth quarter of 2020. This was partially offset by a $0.4 million decrease in facilities and allocated overhead costs and expenses related to COVID-19, including reductions in travel. The increase in sales and marketing expenses was primarily related to a $11.0 million increase in salaries and benefits and stock-based compensation expense. This was partially offset by a $2.2 million decrease in expenses related to COVID-19, including reductions in travel and overall marketing expenses. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily related to an increase of $2.6 million in salaries and benefits and stock-based compensation expense primarily due to increased headcount to support the overall growth of our business. This was partially offset by a $0.2 million decrease in general company expenses predominately related to COVID-19 and other expenses mainly relating to rent and facilities. Financial Income (Expenses), Net Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change (unaudited) (in thousands) Financial income (expenses), net $ (1,022) $ 1,453 (170.3) % Financial expenses, net for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was primarily due to the amortization of debt issuance costs and interest expenses on our convertible senior notes and revolving credit facility partially offset by foreign currency gains. Financial income, net for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was primarily due to foreign currency gains and interest income. Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change (unaudited) (in thousands) Income taxes $ (559) $ (213) (162.4) % Income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020 were comprised primarily of foreign income taxes. 33 Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table shows our cash flows from operating activities, investing activities and financing activities for the stated periods: Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 (unaudited) (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 20,383 $ 3,874 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (4,845) 414 Net cash provided by financing activities 503,976 4,316 Increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 519,514 $ 8,604 On March 31, 2021, our cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and short-term deposits of $824.0 million were held for working capital purposes and were invested primarily in short-term deposits. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, short-term deposits and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to fund our operations and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth, timing of renewals and subscription renewal rates, the expansion of our sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts and expansion into new geographic locations, the timing of introductions of new software products and enhancements to existing software products, the continuing market acceptance of our software offerings and our use of cash to pay for acquisitions, if any. Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities is driven by sales of our products less costs and expenses, primarily payroll and related expenses, and adjusted for certain non-cash items, mainly depreciation, stock-based compensation, amortization of deferred commissions, noncash operating lease costs and amortization of debt discount and issuance costs, and changes in operating assets and liabilities. Changes in operating assets and liabilities are driven mainly by collection of accounts receivable from the sales of our software products and deferred revenues which represents unearned amounts billed to our channel partners, related to these sales. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, cash inflows from our operating activities were $20.4 million. We have observed two seasonal patterns that impact our net cash provided by operating activities. First, a majority of our sales are made during the last three weeks of the quarter. Second, the highest dollar amount of sales of our products and services occurs in the fourth quarter. Consequently, we end the fourth quarter with our highest accounts receivable balance of any quarter which in turn generates the greatest amount of collections in the following quarter. In addition, there is negative sequential revenue in the first quarter, which results in a relatively lower amount collected during the second quarter. These seasonal trends also impact our operating loss because the majority of our expenses are relatively fixed in the short-term. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, sources of cash inflows were from changes in our working capital, including a $42.9 million decrease in accounts receivable. Our days sales outstanding (DSO) for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was 69. Additional sources of cash inflows were from a $0.9 million decrease in other long-term assets. This was partially offset by $3.8 million from our net loss excluding non-cash charges, a $7.6 million decrease in deferred revenues, a $5.5 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets (including deferred commissions), a $5.0 million decrease in accrued expenses and other liabilities, a $1.2 million decrease in other long-term liabilities and a $0.2 million decrease in trade payables. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, cash inflows from our operating activities were $3.9 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, sources of cash inflows were from changes in our working capital, including a $36.8 million decrease in accounts receivable. Our DSO for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was 84. This was partially offset by $11.2 million from our net loss excluding non-cash charges, a $12.6 million decrease in deferred revenues, a $6.9 million decrease in accrued expenses and other liabilities, a $1.9 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets (including deferred commissions), a $0.2 million decrease in trade payables and a $0.1 million increase in other long-term assets. 34 Investing Activities Our investing activities consist primarily of capital expenditures to purchase property and equipment, leasehold improvements, sale and purchases of short-term deposits and changes in our marketable securities. In the future, we expect to continue to incur capital expenditures to support our expanding operations. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, net cash used in investing activities of $4.8 million was primarily attributable to a $12.2 million increase in short-term deposits and $1.1 million in capital expenditures to support our growth during the period including hardware, software, office equipment and leasehold improvements mainly in connection with new office space. This was partially offset by a $6.0 million decrease in marketable securities and a $2.5 million decrease in long-term deposits. During the three months ended March 31, 2020, net cash provided by investing activities of $0.4 million was primarily attributable to a $7.8 million decrease in marketable securities partially offset by a $4.8 million increase in short-term deposits and $2.6 million in capital expenditures to support our growth during the period including hardware, software, office equipment and leasehold improvements mainly in connection with new office space. Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2021, net cash provided by financing activities of $504.0 million was attributable to $500.0 million of net proceeds from a public follow-on offering of equity and $3.9 million of net proceeds from employee stock plans. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, net cash provided by financing activities of $4.3 million was attributable to net proceeds from employee stock plans Revolving Credit Facility On August 21, 2020, we entered into the Credit and Security Agreement, for a three-year secured revolving credit facility of $70.0 million, with a letter of credit sublimit of $15.0 million and an accordion feature under which we can increase the credit facility to up to $90.0 million. For information regarding the revolving credit facility, refer to Note 1. Convertible Notes We have proactively taken steps to increase available cash, including, but not limited to, issuing $253.0 million aggregate principal amount of the 2025 Notes. The net proceeds from the offering, after deducting initial purchaser discount and issuance costs, were approximately $245.2 million. In connection with the issuance of the 2025 Notes, we entered into the Capped Call Transactions. We used $29.3 million of the net proceeds from the 2025 Notes to purchase the Capped Call Transactions, as further discussed in Note 5. Common Stock Split On February 8, 2021, we announced a three-for-one split of our common stock to stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 12, 2021. Trading of our common stock began on a split-adjusted basis on March 15, 2021. Contractual Payment Obligations Our principal commitments primarily consist of obligations under leases for office space and motor vehicles. Aggregate minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable leases as of March 31, 2021 for the upcoming years were as follows: Payments Due by Period 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 Thereafter Total (in thousands) Operating lease obligations $ 8,315 $ 15,839 $ 8,587 $ 7,241 $ 7,278 $ 28,561 $ 75,821 35 We have obligations related to unrecognized tax benefit liabilities totaling $4.7 million and others related to severance pay, which have been excluded from the table above as we do not believe it is practicable to make reliable estimates of the periods in which payments for these obligations will be made. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2021, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The preparation of consolidated financial statements also requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. We believe that the accounting policies discussed below are critical to understanding our historical and future performance, as these policies relate to the more significant areas involving managements judgments and estimates. Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that we consider the most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations because they require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of the matters that are inherently uncertain. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted In August 2020, the FASB issued ASU 2020-06, ASC Subtopic 470-20 DebtDebt with Conversion and Other Options and ASC subtopic 815-40 HedgingContracts in Entitys Own Equity. The standard reduced the number of accounting models for convertible debt instruments and convertible preferred stock. Convertible instruments that continue to be subject to separation models are (1) those with embedded conversion features that are not clearly and closely related to the host contract, that meet the definition of a derivative, and that do not qualify for a scope exception from derivative accounting and (2) convertible debt instruments issued with substantial premiums for which the premiums are recorded as paid-in capital. The amendments in this update are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2021, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted, but no earlier than fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2020, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company is currently assessing the impact of the adoption of this standard on its consolidated financial statements and will adopt on January 1, 2022. 36