Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2023. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. The statements contained in this report that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Forward-looking statements are often identified by the use of words such as, but not limited to, anticipate, believe, can, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, seek, should, strategy, target, will, would and similar expressions or variations intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management based on information currently available to management. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other important factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified below and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors included under Part II, Item 1A below. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. The Transition to a SaaS-Based Business Model In response to the evolving needs of our customers and the growing threat landscape, we are strategically transitioning to a SaaS delivery model. This transition is driven by the increased importance of a data-centric approach to security and the demand for comprehensive protection in the face of heightened cyber risks, collaboration across multiple platforms, the adoption of generative AI tools and the necessity for compliance. Enterprises now use many different combinations of on-premises and cloud data stores, SaaS applications and IaaS environments and this complexity requires a greater level of automated protection. We believe our offering provides comprehensive data coverage and our ability to address this demand will become key driver of our growth. In the second half of 2021, we launched our first SaaS offering, introducing new products and support for several cloud applications and infrastructure. On October 31, 2022 we announced the availability of our flagship Varonis Data Security Platform as a SaaS, which was previously only sold as a self-hosted solution. The benefits of SaaS delivery are widely established for both customers and providers, and we believe this evolution of a SaaS delivery option for the Varonis Data Security Platform will be transformational. The advantages include: quicker and easier deployment and maintenance of solutions with reduced infrastructure and personnel requirements; a lower total cost of ownership; faster deployment of risk assessments, which is the core of our sales motion; enhanced threat detection; continual threat model updates; increased automation for securing data in place; and the ability to deliver additional features and functionality to customers more efficiently. In addition, our SaaS solution allows us to offer Managed Data Detection and Response (MDDR) services providing customers with 24x7x365 monitoring with a service level agreement (SLA) that ensures a Varonis expert will respond to alerts within a specified time frame. Recognizing the potential of a SaaS business model, we plan to transition to a predominately SaaS delivery model over the next several years. We expect our flagship Varonis Data Security Platform as a SaaS to grow significantly over this time and become the primary driver of our revenues. During this transition, we expect our revenues to be negatively impacted due to revenue recognition accounting treatment headwinds associated with the increase in SaaS sales and existing customer conversions to SaaS. These revenue headwinds will be dependent on the pace of the transition. Overview Varonis is a leader in data security as, since we started operations in 2005, we recognized that an enterprise's capacity to create and share data far exceeded its capacity to protect it. We believed that rapid data growth combined with increasing information dependence would change the global economy and the risk profiles of corporations and governments. Our focus has been on using innovation to address the cyber-implications of these trends, creating software that provides new ways to track, alert and protect data wherever it is stored. 22 We sell substantially all of our products and services to channel partners, including distributors and resellers, which sell to end-user customers, which we refer to in this report as our customers. We believe that our sales model, which combines the leverage of a channel sales model with our highly trained and professional sales force, has and will continue to play a major role in our ability to grow and to successfully deliver our unique value proposition for enterprise data. While our products serve customers of all sizes, across industries and across geographies, the marketing focus and majority of our sales focus is on targeting organizations with 1,000 users or more who can make larger initial purchases with us and, over time, have a greater potential lifetime value. Our customers span leading firms in the financial services, public, healthcare, industrial, insurance, technology, energy and utilities, consumer and retail, education and construction and engineering sectors. We believe our existing customer base serves as a strong source of incremental future revenues given our broad platform of products, their growing volumes and complexity of enterprise data and related security concerns. We will continue our focus on targeting organizations with 1,000 users or more who can make larger purchases with us initially and over time. We are also focused on maintaining a high renewal rate by investing in the quality and reliability of our customer service and support teams to ensure our customers receive value from our products and providing software upgrades and enhancements when and if they are available. Our product offering currently contains coverage for more than 40 of the most critical on-premises and cloud data stores and applications and our renewal rate continued to be over 90% for the three months ended March 31, 2024. We believe there is a significant long-term growth opportunity in both domestic and international markets, which could include any organization that relies on data stored in SaaS applications, IaaS environments, NAS devices, file shares, databases and email servers. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, approximately 76% of our revenues were derived from North America, while approximately 21% of our revenues were derived from EMEA and approximately 3% from ROW. Additionally, despite the revenue recognition headwinds from the accounting treatment associated with the positive trend of our increase in SaaS sales and existing customer conversions to SaaS, total revenues still grew approximately 6% for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared with the three months ended March 31, 2023. We continue to expect expansion in both domestic and international markets to be key components of our long-term growth strategy. Over the last few years, however, our operations around the world were negatively impacted by broader macroeconomic conditions, including a higher inflation and interest rate environment and a general economic slowdown. As a result, we have seen changes in customer buying patterns including, some budgetary tightening and longer renewal cycles, a trend which may continue for the foreseeable future. We continue to expand our domestic and international operations as part of our long-term growth strategy. While the expansion of our domestic operations is focused primarily on our underpenetrated territories, the expansion of our international operations depends in particular on our ability to hire, integrate and retain local sales personnel in these international markets, acquire new channel partners and implement an effective marketing strategy. Given the nominal amount of our ROW revenues, our ROW revenue growth rates have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future based on the timing of deal closures. In addition, the further expansion of our international operations will increase our sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses and will subject us to a variety of risks and challenges, including those related to economic and political conditions in each region, compliance with foreign laws and regulations, and compliance with domestic laws and regulations applicable to our international operations. Since inception, we have continued to scale our business and execute on strategic initiatives which we believe have positioned us for durable long-term growth. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, we have continued to grow our revenues despite revenue recognition accounting treatment headwinds associated with the increase in SaaS sales and existing customer conversions to SaaS. For the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, SaaS revenues were $34.0 million and $2.1 million, respectively. For the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, our total revenues were $114.0 million and $107.3 million, respectively. For the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, we had operating losses of $47.6 million and $43.1 million and net losses of $40.5 million and $38.3 million, respectively. Instability in the Middle East Due to the war that began on October 7, 2023, a portion of our employees in Israel have been called to active reserve duty and additional employees may be called in the future, if needed. The Company has a business continuity plan and will remain aware and responsive to the evolving situation. However, it is possible that some of our operations in the region may be disrupted if the situation deteriorates further. Key Performance Indicators and Recent Business Highlights Annual Recurring Revenues Annual recurring revenues is a key performance indicator defined as the annualized value of active term-based subscription license contracts, SaaS contracts and maintenance contracts in effect at the end of that period. Subscription license 23 contracts, SaaS contracts and maintenance contracts are annualized by dividing the total contract value by the number of days in the term and multiplying the result by 365. As of March 31, 2024 and 2023, ARR were $560.3 million and $478.1 million, respectively, an increase of 17% period over period. The annualized value of contracts is a legal and contractual determination made by assessing the contractual terms with our customers. The annualized value of these contracts are not determined by reference to historical revenues, deferred revenues or any other GAAP financial measure over any period. ARR is not a forecast of future revenues and can be impacted by contract start and end dates and renewal rates. We expect ARR to continue to increase in absolute dollars. Transition to SaaS-Based Business Model and SaaS as a Percentage of ARR Over the last two years, we have strategically expanded our offering to include SaaS solutions. Recognizing the established benefits of SaaS for both customers and us, we plan to transition our business to a predominantly SaaS delivery model over the next several years. Due to differences in the revenue recognition accounting treatment, the transition to a SaaS based-business model may produce revenue headwinds which may cause significant variation in the reported revenues for a given period compared to the same period in the previous year. As of March 31, 2024, SaaS as a percentage of total ARR was approximately 30% and we expect this percentage to increase as we continue the transition to a SaaS delivery model. Remaining Performance Obligations Remaining performance obligations ("RPO") represent contracted revenues that have not yet been recognized, which includes deferred revenues and non-cancelable amounts that will be invoiced in the future. Our RPO were $426.2 million as of March 31, 2024. We expect RPO to continue to increase in absolute dollars as we transition to a predominately SaaS-based company. Components of Operating Results Revenues Term License Subscription Revenues. Term license subscription revenues relate to subscription license revenues which are sold on-premises and are recognized at the point in time when the software license has been delivered and the benefit of the asset has transferred. Maintenance associated with subscription licenses is recognized ratably over the term of the agreement. SaaS Revenues. SaaS revenues relate to the Company's SaaS platform. Over the last two years, the Company began to offer SaaS solutions to its customers, including its (i) flagship Data Security Platform as a SaaS that was previously only sold as a self-hosted solution and (ii) DatAdvantage Cloud product line. Each of these products allow customers to use hosted software, and the related revenue from these products is recognized ratably over the associated contract period. Over the next several years, we expect SaaS revenues to grow considerably and become the primary driver of our revenues. Conversions from a license sold on-premises to our SaaS offering during the original subscription period are accounted for on a pro-rata prospective basis. Due to the transition to a predominately SaaS business model, the timing of renewals and renewal rates, we could produce significant variation in the revenues we recognize in a given period. Maintenance and Services Revenues. Maintenance and services revenues consist of revenues from maintenance agreements of past perpetual license sales and, to a lesser extent, professional services. Customers with maintenance agreements are entitled to receive support and unspecified upgrades and enhancements when and if they become available. We recognize the revenues associated with maintenance ratably over the associated contract period. We measure the renewal rate for our customers over a 12-month period, based on a dollar renewal rate for contracts expiring during that time period. Our renewal rate for each of the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 continued to be over 90%. We do not expect perpetual license revenues in the future and, therefore, we expect the associated maintenance and support to continue to decline despite the strong renewal rates. We also offer professional services, generally provided on a time and materials basis, focused on training our customers in the use of our products. We recognize the revenues associated with these professional services as we deliver the services, provide the training or when the service term has expired. Professional services have always been a small percentage of our total revenues and we expect it to continue to be a small percentage as our newer solutions can provide remediation in more automated ways. As such, maintenance and services revenues are expected to continue to decline. The following table sets forth the percentage of our revenues that have been derived from subscription licenses and maintenance and services revenues for the periods presented. 24 Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (as a percentage of total revenues) Revenues: Term license subscriptions 49.1 % 75.4 % SaaS 29.8 1.9 Maintenance and services 21.1 22.7 Total revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % Our products are used by a wide range of enterprises, including Fortune 500 corporations and small and medium-sized businesses. Our customers span a broad array of industries and are located in over 90 countries. Cost of Revenues, Gross Profit and Gross Margin Cost of revenues consist primarily of salaries (including payroll tax expense related to stock-based compensation), employee benefits (including commissions and bonuses) and stock-based compensation for our customer support, customer success and services employees; third-party hosting fees; amortization of acquired intangible assets; travel expenses; and allocated overhead costs for facilities, IT and depreciation. We recognize expenses related to these costs as they are incurred and expect that these costs will increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest in our customer success and support teams, move to a SaaS delivery model and support the underlying programs that play a critical role in maintaining our high renewal rate. Gross profit is total revenues less total cost of revenues. Gross margin is gross profit expressed as a percentage of total revenues. As the majority of our expenses are relatively fixed quarter over quarter and due to the seasonality of our business, the first quarter typically results in the lowest gross margin as our first quarter revenues have historically been the lowest for the year. Conversely, the fourth quarter typically results in the highest gross margin as our fourth quarter revenues have historically been the highest for the year. As we transition to a predominately SaaS-based company, we expect this seasonality to decrease due to differences in the revenue recognition accounting treatment. Operating Expenses Operating expenses are classified into three categories: research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative. For each category, the largest component is personnel costs, which consists of salaries (including payroll tax expense related to stock-based compensation), employee benefits (including commissions and bonuses) and stock-based compensation. Operating expenses also include allocated overhead costs for facilities, IT and depreciation. Allocated costs for facilities primarily consist of rent and office maintenance. Operating expenses are generally recognized as incurred. As a company, we have always aimed to tie our level of investment in the business to the revenues we expect to achieve and we actively manage expenses across the business. We expect personnel costs to continue to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to grow our business. Research and Development. Research and development expenses primarily consist of personnel costs attributable to our research and development personnel, as well as allocated overhead costs. We expense research and development costs as incurred. We expect that our research and development expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars as we further strengthen our technology platform and invest in the development of both existing and new products through the hiring of talented and capable employees. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses are the largest component of our operating expenses and consist primarily of personnel costs, as well as marketing and business development costs, travel expenses, third-party hosting fees, training and education and allocated overhead costs. We expect that sales and marketing expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars as we plan to expand our sales and marketing efforts, both domestically and internationally. We also expect sales and marketing expenses to continue to be our largest category of operating expenses. 25 General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel and facility-related costs for our executive, finance, legal, human resources and administrative personnel. Other expenses are comprised of legal, accounting and other consultant fees and other corporate expenses and allocated overhead. We expect that general and administrative expenses will increase in absolute dollars as we expand our operations. Financial Income (Expenses), Net Financial income (expenses), net consists primarily of interest income, foreign exchange gains or losses, amortization of debt discount and issuance costs and interest expense. Interest income represents interest received on our cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, deposits and amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts related to our investment in available for sale marketable securities. Foreign exchange gains or losses relate to our business activities in foreign countries with different operational reporting currencies. As a result of our business activities in foreign countries, we expect that foreign exchange gains or losses will continue to occur due to fluctuations in exchange rates in the countries where we do business. Amortization of debt discount and issuance costs relate to the 2025 Notes we issued in May 2020. Interest expense consists of the contractual interest expenses associated with the 2025 Notes. Income Taxes We operate in several tax jurisdictions and are subject to taxes in each country or jurisdiction in which we conduct business. Earnings from our non-U.S. activities are subject to local country income tax and may be subject to U.S. income tax. Because of our history of operating losses, we have established a full valuation allowance against potential future benefits for deferred tax assets, including loss carryforwards. Our income tax provision could be significantly impacted by estimates surrounding our uncertain tax positions and changes to our valuation allowance in future periods. We reevaluate the judgments surrounding our estimates and make adjustments as appropriate each reporting period. In addition, we are subject to the regular examinations of our income tax returns by different tax authorities. For example, we are currently subject to an income and a withholding tax audit in Israel and a state tax audit in the United States. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. 26 Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 The following tables are a summary of our condensed consolidated statements of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 in dollars and as a percentage of our total revenues. Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (unaudited) (in thousands) Statement of Operations Data: Revenues: Term license subscriptions $ 55,980 $ 80,906 SaaS 33,985 2,068 Maintenance and services 24,057 24,361 Total revenues 114,022 107,335 Cost of revenues 21,349 17,637 Gross profit 92,673 89,698 Operating expenses: Research and development 47,827 44,732 Sales and marketing 71,227 68,393 General and administrative 21,252 19,689 Total operating expenses 140,306 132,814 Operating loss (47,633) (43,116) Financial income, net 8,545 7,773 Loss before income taxes (39,088) (35,343) Income taxes (1,402) (2,961) Net loss $ (40,490) $ (38,304) Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (as a percentage of total revenues) Statement of Operations Data: Revenues: Term license subscriptions 49.1 % 75.4 % SaaS 29.8 1.9 Maintenance and services 21.1 22.7 Total revenues 100.0 100.0 Cost of revenues 18.7 16.4 Gross profit 81.3 83.6 Operating expenses: Research and development 42.0 41.7 Sales and marketing 62.5 63.7 General and administrative 18.6 18.4 Total operating expenses 123.1 123.8 Operating loss (41.8) (40.2) Financial income, net 7.5 7.3 27 Loss before income taxes (34.3) (32.9) Income taxes (1.2) (2.8) Net loss (35.5) % (35.7) % Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 % Change (unaudited) (in thousands) Revenues: Term license subscriptions $ 55,980 $ 80,906 (30.8) % SaaS 33,985 2,068 1,543.4 % Maintenance and services 24,057 24,361 (1.2) % Total revenues $ 114,022 $ 107,335 6.2 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (as a percentage of total revenues) Revenues: Term license subscriptions 49.1 % 75.4 % SaaS 29.8 1.9 Maintenance and services 21.1 22.7 Total revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % For the three months ended March 31, 2024, our revenues increased 6% compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023 despite the positive trend of increased SaaS sales and existing customer conversions to SaaS which cause headwinds due to accounting treatment differences in revenue recognition. SaaS revenues increased 1,543% from $2.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 to $34.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 as we progress through our transition to a predominantly SaaS delivery model. The increase in SaaS revenues was driven by new customer acquisitions, existing customers conversions and our high renewal rate. Consequently, there was an expected decrease to term license subscriptions given the aforementioned transition and customer conversions, a trend we expect to continue in the future. ARR were $560.3 million and $478.1 million as of March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, representing an increase of 17%. The anticipated decrease in maintenance and services revenues was due to churn and the conversion of existing customers to SaaS despite our renewal rate continuing to be over 90% for each of the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, as well as newer solutions providing remediation in more automated ways, requiring less professional services time. As a result, we expected, and continue to expect less associated maintenance and services revenues in the future. 28 Cost of Revenues and Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 % Change (unaudited) (in thousands) Cost of revenues $ 21,349 $ 17,637 21.0 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (as a percentage of total revenues) Total gross margin 81.3 % 83.6 % The increase in cost of revenues was primarily related to a $1.8 million increase in salaries and benefits and stock-based compensation expense due to increased headcount for customer success personnel to assist with the transition to a SaaS delivery model, ensure high customer satisfaction and maintain our strong renewal rates. The increase is also due to a $1.6 million increase in third-party hosting costs associated with our transition to a SaaS delivery model and an increase of $0.2 million in facilities and allocated overhead costs. Operating Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 % Change (unaudited) (in thousands) Operating expenses: Research and development $ 47,827 $ 44,732 6.9 % Sales and marketing 71,227 68,393 4.1 % General and administrative 21,252 19,689 7.9 % Total operating expenses $ 140,306 $ 132,814 5.6 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (as a percentage of total revenues) Operating expenses: Research and development 42.0 % 41.7 % Sales and marketing 62.5 63.7 General and administrative 18.6 18.4 Total operating expenses 123.1 % 123.8 % The increase in research and development expenses was primarily related to a $2.0 million increase in salaries and benefits and stock-based compensation expense for our employees as part of our focus on enhancing and developing our existing and new products. The increase is also due to a $0.6 million increase in facilities and allocated overhead costs and a $0.4 million increase in third-party hosting costs associated with our transition to a SaaS delivery model. The increase in sales and marketing expenses was primarily related to a $2.3 million increase related to general sales and marketing expenses, including increased travel and marketing events. The increase is also due to a $1.1 million increase in 29 salaries and benefits and stock-based compensation expense for our sales force and commissions on customer orders. This is partially offset by a decrease of $0.5 million in facilities and allocated overhead costs. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily related to an increase of $1.6 million in salaries and benefits and stock-based compensation expense primarily due to increased headcount to support the overall growth of our business. Financial Income, Net Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 % Change (unaudited) (in thousands) Financial income, net $ 8,545 $ 7,773 9.9 % The increase in financial income, net was primarily due to higher interest income, partially offset by less foreign currency gains. Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 % Change (unaudited) (in thousands) Income taxes $ (1,402) $ (2,961) 52.7 % Income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2024, including the decrease in income taxes, were comprised of U.S. and foreign income taxes. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table shows our cash flows from operating activities, investing activities and financing activities for the stated periods: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (unaudited) (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 56,723 $ 36,830 Net cash used in investing activities (111,966) (142,515) Net cash used in financing activities (28,446) (13,530) Decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (83,689) $ (119,215) On March 31, 2024, our cash and cash equivalents, short-term marketable securities and short-term deposits of $548.1 million were held for working capital purposes. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, short-term marketable securities, short-term deposits and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to fund our operations and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth, timing of renewals and renewal rates, the expansion of our sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts and expansion into new geographic locations, the timing of introductions of new software products and enhancements to existing software products, the continuing market acceptance of our software offerings and our use of cash to pay for acquisitions or share repurchases, if any. 30 Operating Activities Our operating activities are driven by sales of our products less costs and expenses, primarily payroll and related expenses, and adjusted for certain non-cash items, mainly depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation, amortization of deferred commissions, non-cash operating lease costs, amortization of debt issuance costs and amortization of premium and accretion of discount on marketable securities, and changes in operating assets and liabilities. Changes in operating assets and liabilities are driven mainly by collection of accounts receivable from the sales of our software products and deferred revenue, which primarily consists of billed fees for our subscriptions, prior to satisfying the criteria for revenue recognition, which are subsequently recognized as revenue in accordance with our revenue recognition policy. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, cash inflows from our operating activities were $56.7 million. We have observed two seasonal patterns that impact our net cash provided by operating activities. First, a majority of our sales are made during the last three weeks of the quarter. Second, the highest dollar amount of sales of our products and services occurs in the fourth quarter. Consequently, we end the fourth quarter with our highest accounts receivable balance of any quarter which in turn generates the greatest amount of collections in the following quarter. In addition, there is negative sequential sales in the first quarter, which results in a relatively lower amount collected during the second quarter. These seasonal trends also impact our operating loss because the majority of our expenses are relatively fixed in the short-term. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, cash inflows were $1.5 million from our net loss excluding non-cash charges. Additional sources of cash inflows were from changes in our working capital, including a $68.7 million decrease in accounts receivable. Our days sales outstanding (DSO) for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was 78. Other sources of cash inflows were from a $3.6 million increase in deferred revenues, a $2.2 million increase in trade payables and a $0.2 million increase in other long-term liabilities. This was partially offset by a $16.8 million decrease in accrued expenses and other liabilities, a $2.4 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets (including deferred commissions) and a $0.1 million increase in other long-term assets. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, cash inflows from our operating activities were $36.8 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, cash inflows were $5.3 million from our net loss excluding non-cash charges. Additional sources of cash inflows were from changes in our working capital, including a $60.6 million decrease in accounts receivable. Our DSO for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was 64. Other sources of cash inflows were from a $1.2 million increase in other long-term liabilities. This was partially offset by a $15.8 million decrease in accrued expenses and other liabilities, a $10.3 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets (including deferred commissions), a $2.3 million decrease in trade payables, a $1.4 million decrease in deferred revenues and a $0.6 million increase in other long-term assets. Investing Activities Our investing activities consist primarily of capital expenditures to purchase property and equipment, including leasehold improvements, purchase and sale of deposits and changes in our marketable securities. In the future, we expect to continue to incur capital expenditures to support our expanding operations. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash used in investing activities of $112.0 million was primarily attributable net investments of $116.4 million in marketable securities and $0.3 million in capital expenditures to support our growth during the period including hardware, software, office equipment and leasehold improvements. This was partially offset by net proceeds of $4.7 million in deposits. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, net cash used in investing activities of $142.5 million was primarily attributable to net investments of $98.5 million in net deposits, $42.9 million in marketable securities and $1.1 million in capital expenditures to support our growth during the period including hardware, software, office equipment and leasehold improvements mainly in connection with office space. Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash used in financing activities of $28.4 million was attributable to $34.9 million in taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards, partially offset by $6.4 million of proceeds from employee stock plans. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, net cash used in financing activities of $13.5 million was attributable to $16.9 million in taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards and $2.5 million of repurchases of common stock, partially offset by $5.9 million of proceeds from employee stock plans. 31 Convertible Notes On May 11, 2020, we issued $253.0 million aggregate principal amount of the 2025 Notes. The net proceeds from the offering, after deducting initial purchaser discount and issuance costs, were approximately $245.2 million. In connection with the issuance of the 2025 Notes, we entered into the Capped Call Transactions. We used $29.3 million of the net proceeds from the 2025 Notes to purchase the Capped Call Transactions, as further discussed in Note 5 of our condensed consolidated financial statements. Contractual Payment Obligations Our principal commitments primarily consist of obligations under leases for office space and motor vehicles. Aggregate minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable leases as of March 31, 2024 for the upcoming years were as follows: Payments Due by Period 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 Thereafter Total (in thousands) Operating lease obligations $ 8,915 $ 11,928 $ 10,267 $ 10,156 $ 10,104 $ 14,001 $ 65,371 We have obligations related to unrecognized tax benefit liabilities totaling $24.3 million and others related to severance pay, which have been excluded from the table above as we do not believe it is practicable to make reliable estimates of the periods in which payments for these obligations will be made. We also have a contractual minimum purchase commitment with a service provider through August 31, 2025 totaling $3.1 million and an additional $50.7 million contractual minimum purchase commitment with another service provider through December 31, 2026 with no specified annual commitments. We expect to fund these obligations with cash flows from operations and cash on our balance sheet. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2024, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We prepare our condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements also requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. We believe that our accounting policies are critical to understanding our historical and future performance, as these policies relate to the more significant areas involving managements judgments and estimates. Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that we consider the most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations because they require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of the matters that are inherently uncertain. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted In November 2023, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2023-07, Segment Reporting (Topic 280), Improvements to Reportable Segment Disclosures to improve reportable segment disclosure requirements through enhanced disclosures about significant segment expenses on an interim and annual basis. All disclosure requirements of ASU 2023-07 are required for entities with a single reportable segment. ASU 2023-07 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2023, and interim periods for the fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2024, and should be applied on a retrospective basis to all periods presented. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the effect of adopting the ASU on our disclosures. In December 2023, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2023-09, Income Taxes (Topic 740) - Improvements to Income Tax Disclosures. The ASU requires that an entity 32 disclose specific categories in the effective tax rate reconciliation as well as provide additional information for reconciling items that meet a quantitative threshold. Further, the ASU requires certain disclosures of state versus federal income tax expense and taxes paid. The amendments in this ASU are required to be adopted for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2024. Early adoption is permitted and the amendments should be applied on a prospective basis. We are currently evaluating the effect of adopting the ASU on our disclosures. 33