Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2024. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. The statements contained in this report that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Forward-looking statements are often identified by the use of words such as, but not limited to, anticipate, believe, can, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, seek, should, strategy, target, will, would and similar expressions or variations intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management based on information currently available to management. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other important factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified below and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors included under Part II, Item 1A below. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. The Transition to a SaaS Delivery Model In response to the evolving needs of our customers and the growing threat landscape, we are strategically transitioning to a SaaS delivery model. This transition is driven by the increased importance of an automated data-centric approach to security and the demand for comprehensive protection in the face of heightened cyber risks, collaboration across multiple platforms, the adoption of generative AI tools and the necessity for compliance. Enterprises now use many different combinations of on-premises and cloud data stores, SaaS applications and IaaS environments and this complexity requires a greater level of automated security. We believe our offering provides comprehensive data coverage and our ability to address this demand has and will continue to be a key driver of our growth. In the second half of 2021, we launched our first SaaS offering, introducing new products and support for cloud infrastructure environments and applications. At the end of 2022, we announced the availability of our flagship Varonis Data Security Platform as a SaaS solution, which was previously only sold as a self-hosted solution. The benefits of SaaS delivery are widely established for both customers and providers, and we believe this evolution of a SaaS delivery option for the Varonis Data Security Platform is transformational. The advantages include: quicker and easier deployment and maintenance of solutions with reduced infrastructure and personnel requirements; a lower total cost of ownership; faster deployment of risk assessments, which is the core of our sales motion; enhanced threat detection; continual threat model updates; increased automation for securing data in place; and the ability to deliver additional features and functionality to customers more efficiently. In addition, our Managed Data Detection and Response ("MDDR") offering further reduces both the likelihood of a breach and its potential impact through agentic AI, enabling automated 24x7x365 monitoring with a service level agreement (SLA) that requires Varonis to respond to alerts within a specified time frame. Our MDDR offering is only available for our SaaS customers because of the automation and visibility thats built into our SaaS platform. Since launching our SaaS offerings, we have seen SaaS deployments grow significantly and they are now the primary driver of our revenues. We expect SaaS revenues to continue to increase. However, during this transition, our revenues may be negatively impacted due to revenue recognition accounting treatment variations associated with the increase in SaaS sales and existing customer conversions to SaaS. We expect these revenue variations to persist throughout the transition to a SaaS delivery model, which we believe will be complete by the end of 2025. Overview Varonis is a leader in data security as, since we started operations in 2005, we recognized that an enterprise's capacity to create and share data far exceeded its capacity to protect it. We believed that rapid data growth combined with increasing information dependence would change the global economy and the risk profiles of corporations and governmental agencies. Our focus has been on using innovation to address the cyber-implications of these trends, creating software that provides new ways to track, alert and protect data wherever it is stored. 25 We sell substantially all of our products and services to channel partners, including distributors and resellers, which sell to end-user customers, which we refer to in this report as our customers. We believe that our sales model, which combines the leverage of a channel sales model with our highly trained and professional sales force, has and will continue to play a major role in our ability to grow and to successfully deliver our unique value proposition for enterprise data. While our products serve customers of all sizes, across industries and across geographies, the marketing focus and majority of our sales focus is on targeting larger organizations who can make sizable initial purchases with us and, over time, have a greater potential lifetime value. Our customers span leading firms in the financial services, public, healthcare, industrial, insurance, energy and utilities, technology, consumer and retail, education and construction and engineering sectors. We believe our existing customer base serves as a strong source of future incremental revenues given our broad platform of products, their growing volumes and complexity of enterprise data and related security concerns. We will continue our focus on targeting larger organizations who can make sizable purchases with us initially and over time. We are also focused on maintaining a high renewal rate by investing in the quality and reliability of our customer service and support teams to ensure our customers receive value from our products and providing software upgrades and enhancements when and if they are available. Our product offering currently contains coverage for most mission critical cloud and on-premises data stores and cloud infrastructure environments, and many critical SaaS applications. Our renewal rate continued to be over 90% for the three months ended March 31, 2025. We believe there is a significant long-term growth opportunity in both domestic and international markets, which could include any organization that relies on data stored in SaaS applications, IaaS environments, NAS devices, file shares, databases and email servers. For the three months ended March 31, 2025, approximately 70% of our revenues were derived from the United States, while approximately 21% of our revenues were derived from EMEA and approximately 9% from ROW. Additionally, despite the revenue recognition variations from the accounting treatment associated with the positive trend of our increase in SaaS sales and existing customer conversions to SaaS, total revenues still grew approximately 20% for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared with the three months ended March 31, 2024. We continue to expect expansion in both domestic and international markets to be key components of our long-term growth strategy. Over the last few years, we have seen changes in customer buying patterns including, some budgetary tightening and additional scrutiny on enterprise spending as a result of a higher inflation and interest rate environment. We continue to expand our domestic and international operations as part of our long-term growth strategy. While the expansion of our domestic operations is focused primarily on our underpenetrated territories, the expansion of our international operations depends in particular on our ability to hire, integrate and retain local sales leadership and personnel in these international markets, acquire new channel partners and implement an effective marketing strategy. Given the nominal amount of our ROW revenues, our ROW revenue growth rates have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future based on the timing of deal closures. In addition, the further expansion of our international operations will increase our sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses and will subject us to a variety of risks and challenges, including those related to economic and political conditions in each region, compliance with foreign laws and regulations, and compliance with domestic laws and regulations applicable to our international operations. Since inception, we have continued to scale our business and execute on strategic initiatives which we believe have positioned us for durable long-term growth. For the three months ended March 31, 2025, we have continued to grow our revenues despite revenue recognition accounting treatment variations associated with the increase in SaaS sales and existing customer conversions to SaaS. For the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, SaaS revenues were $88.6 million and $34.0 million, respectively. For the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, our total revenues were $136.4 million and $114.0 million, respectively. For the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, we have operating losses of $43.8 million and $47.6 million and net losses of $35.8 million and $40.5 million, respectively. Instability in the Middle East Due to the war that began on October 7, 2023, a portion of our employees in Israel have been called to active reserve duty and additional employees may be called in the future, if needed. We have a business continuity plan and will remain aware and responsive to the evolving situation; however, any deterioration in the situation might have a negative impact on our operations. Key Performance Indicators and Recent Business Highlights Annual Recurring Revenues Annual recurring revenues is a key performance indicator defined as the annualized value of active SaaS contracts, term-based subscription license contracts and maintenance contracts in effect at the end of that period. SaaS contracts, term- 26 based subscription license contracts and maintenance contracts are annualized by dividing the total contract value by the number of days in the term and multiplying the result by 365. As of March 31, 2025 and 2024, ARR was $664.3 million and $560.3 million, respectively, an increase of 19% period over period. The annualized value of contracts is a legal and contractual determination made by assessing the contractual terms with our customers. The annualized value of these contracts is not determined by reference to historical revenues, deferred revenues or any other GAAP financial measure over any period. ARR is not a forecast of future revenues and can be impacted by contract start and end dates and renewal rates. We expect ARR to continue to increase in absolute dollars. Transition to SaaS Delivery Model and SaaS as a Percentage of ARR Over the last three years, we have strategically expanded our offering to be delivered as SaaS solutions. Since that time, we have seen SaaS deployments grow significantly and expect them to continue to increase. Due to differences in the revenue recognition accounting treatment, the transition to a SaaS delivery model may cause significant variation in the reported revenues for a given period compared to the same period in the previous year. We expect these revenue variations to persist throughout the transition to a SaaS delivery model, which we believe will be complete by the end of 2025. As of March 31, 2025, SaaS as a percentage of total ARR was approximately 61% and we expect this percentage to continue to increase throughout the transition to a SaaS delivery model. Remaining Performance Obligations Remaining performance obligations ("RPO") represent contracted revenues that have not yet been recognized, which includes deferred revenues and non-cancelable amounts that will be invoiced in the future. Our RPO was $788.7 million as of March 31, 2025. We expect RPO to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to transition to a SaaS delivery model. Business Acquisition On March 17, 2025, we completed the acquisition of Cyral, Inc. ("Cyral"), a private company which develops database activity monitoring (DAM) software that uses agentless and stateless interception technology. For further information regarding the acquisition, refer to Note 4 of our condensed consolidated financial statements. Components of Operating Results Revenues SaaS Revenues. SaaS revenues relate to the Company's SaaS platform. Over the last three years, the Company began to offer SaaS solutions to its customers, including its (i) flagship Data Security Platform as a SaaS that was previously only sold as a self-hosted solution and (ii) DatAdvantage Cloud product lines. Each of these products allow customers to use hosted software, and the related revenue from these products is recognized ratably over the associated contract period. Our SaaS solutions are the primary driver of our revenues and we expect SaaS revenues to continue to grow considerably. Conversions from a license sold on-premises to our SaaS offering during the original subscription period are accounted for on a prospective basis. Term License Subscription Revenues. Term license subscription revenues relate to subscription license revenues which are sold on-premises and are recognized at the point in time when the software license has been delivered and the benefit of the asset has transferred. Maintenance associated with a term license subscription is recognized ratably over the term of the agreement. Maintenance and Services Revenues. Maintenance and services revenues consist of revenues from maintenance agreements of past perpetual license sales and, to a lesser extent, professional services. Customers with maintenance agreements are entitled to receive support and unspecified upgrades and enhancements when and if they become available. We recognize the revenues associated with maintenance ratably over the associated contract period. We recognize the revenues associated with professional services as those services are delivered or once the service term has expired. Professional services have always been a small percentage of our total revenues and we expect it to continue to be a small percentage. Our renewal rate for each of the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 continued to be over 90%. We measure the renewal rate for our customers over a 12-month period, based on a dollar renewal rate for contracts expiring during that time period. Due to the transition to a SaaS delivery model, the timing of renewals and renewal rates, we could produce significant 27 variation in the revenues we recognize in a given period. We expect term license subscription revenues and perpetual license revenues, including the associated maintenance and support related to perpetual licenses, to continue to decline in the future, despite the strong renewal rates due to the transition to a SaaS delivery model. The following table sets forth the percentage of our revenues that have been derived from SaaS, term license subscriptions and maintenance and services revenues for the periods presented. Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (as a percentage of total revenues) Revenues: SaaS 64.9 % 29.8 % Term license subscriptions 23.1 49.1 Maintenance and services 12.0 21.1 Total revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % Our products are used by a wide range of enterprises, including Fortune 500 corporations and small and medium-sized businesses. Our customers span a broad array of industries and are located in over 95 countries. Cost of Revenues, Gross Profit and Gross Margin Cost of revenues consist primarily of salaries (including payroll tax expense related to stock-based compensation), employee benefits (including commissions and bonuses) and stock-based compensation for our customer support, customer success, MDDR and services employees; third-party hosting fees; amortization of acquired intangible assets; travel expenses; and allocated overhead costs for facilities, IT and depreciation. We recognize expenses related to these costs as they are incurred and expect that these costs will increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest in our customer success, support and MDDR teams, complete the transition to a SaaS delivery model and support the underlying programs that play a critical role in maintaining our high renewal rate. Gross profit is total revenues less total cost of revenues. Gross margin is gross profit expressed as a percentage of total revenues. As the majority of our expenses are relatively fixed quarter over quarter and due to the seasonality of our business, the first quarter typically results in the lowest gross margin as our first quarter revenues have historically been the lowest for the year. Conversely, the fourth quarter typically results in the highest gross margin as our fourth quarter revenues have historically been the highest for the year. As we complete the transition to a SaaS delivery model, we expect this seasonality to decrease due to differences in the revenue recognition accounting treatment. Operating Expenses Operating expenses are classified into three categories: research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative. For each category, the largest component is personnel costs, which consists of salaries (including payroll tax expense related to stock-based compensation), employee benefits (including commissions and bonuses) and stock-based compensation. Operating expenses also include allocated overhead costs for facilities, IT and depreciation. Allocated costs for facilities primarily consist of rent and office maintenance. Operating expenses are generally recognized as incurred. As a company, we have always aimed to tie our level of investment in the business to the revenues we expect to achieve and we actively manage expenses across the business. We expect personnel costs to continue to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to grow our business. Research and Development. Research and development expenses primarily consist of personnel costs attributable to our research and development personnel, as well as allocated overhead costs. We expense research and development costs as incurred, except for certain internal-use software development costs that are capitalized. We expect that our research and development expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars as we further strengthen our technology platform and invest in the development of both existing and new products through the hiring of talented and capable employees. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses are the largest component of our operating expenses and consist primarily of personnel costs, as well as marketing and business development costs, travel expenses, third-party hosting fees, training and education and allocated overhead costs. We expect that sales and marketing expenses will continue to increase in 28 absolute dollars as we plan to expand our sales and marketing efforts, both domestically and internationally. We also expect sales and marketing expenses to continue to be our largest category of operating expenses. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel and facility-related costs for our executive, finance, legal, human resources and administrative personnel. Other expenses are comprised of legal, accounting and other consultant fees and other corporate expenses and allocated overhead. We expect that general and administrative expenses will increase in absolute dollars as we expand our operations. Financial Income (Expenses), Net Financial income (expenses), net consists primarily of interest income, amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts related to our investment in available for sale marketable securities, foreign exchange gains or losses, amortization of debt issuance costs and interest expense. Interest income represents interest received on our cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, and deposits. Foreign exchange gains or losses relate to our business activities in foreign countries with different operational reporting currencies. As a result of our business activities in foreign countries, we expect that foreign exchange gains or losses will continue to occur due to fluctuations in exchange rates in the countries where we do business. Amortization of debt issuance costs relate to the Notes we issued in May 2020 and September 2024. Interest expense consists of the contractual interest expenses associated with the Notes. Income Taxes We operate in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions and are subject to taxes in each country or jurisdiction in which we conduct business. Earnings from our non-U.S. activities are subject to local country income tax and may be subject to U.S. income tax. Because of our history of operating losses, we have established a full valuation allowance against potential future benefits for deferred tax assets, including loss carryforwards. Our income tax provision could be significantly impacted by estimates surrounding our uncertain tax positions and changes to our valuation allowance in future periods. We reevaluate the judgments surrounding our estimates and make adjustments as appropriate each reporting period. In addition, we are subject to the regular examinations of our income tax returns by different tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. 29 Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 The following tables are a summary of our condensed consolidated statements of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 in dollars and as a percentage of our total revenues. Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (unaudited) (in thousands) Statement of Operations Data: Revenues: SaaS $ 88,560 $ 33,985 Term license subscriptions 31,488 55,980 Maintenance and services 16,375 24,057 Total revenues 136,423 114,022 Cost of revenues 29,018 21,349 Gross profit 107,405 92,673 Operating expenses: Research and development 54,210 47,827 Sales and marketing 72,763 71,227 General and administrative 24,198 21,252 Total operating expenses 151,171 140,306 Operating loss (43,766) (47,633) Financial income, net 11,951 8,545 Loss before income taxes (31,815) (39,088) Income taxes (3,968) (1,402) Net loss $ (35,783) $ (40,490) Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (as a percentage of total revenues) Statement of Operations Data: Revenues: SaaS 64.9 % 29.8 % Term license subscriptions 23.1 49.1 Maintenance and services 12.0 21.1 Total revenues 100.0 100.0 Cost of revenues 21.3 18.7 Gross profit 78.7 81.3 Operating expenses: Research and development 39.7 42.0 Sales and marketing 53.3 62.5 General and administrative 17.8 18.6 Total operating expenses 110.8 123.1 Operating loss (32.1) (41.8) Financial income, net 8.8 7.5 30 Loss before income taxes (23.3) (34.3) Income taxes (2.9) (1.2) Net loss (26.2) % (35.5) % Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 % Change (unaudited) (in thousands) Revenues: SaaS $ 88,560 $ 33,985 160.6 % Term license subscriptions 31,488 55,980 (43.8) % Maintenance and services 16,375 24,057 (31.9) % Total revenues $ 136,423 $ 114,022 19.6 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (as a percentage of total revenues) Revenues: SaaS 64.9 % 29.8 % Term license subscriptions 23.1 49.1 Maintenance and services 12.0 21.1 Total revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % For the three months ended March 31, 2025, our revenues increased 20% compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024 despite increased SaaS sales and existing customer conversions to SaaS which cause variations due to accounting treatment differences in revenue recognition for sales within the respective periods. SaaS revenues increased 161% from $34.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 to $88.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, as we continue to progress through our transition to a SaaS delivery model. The increase in SaaS revenues was driven by (i) new customer acquisitions, which are happening due to the simplicity of our SaaS platform and MDDR offering, as well as customer interest in Gen AI, (ii) existing customer conversions and upsells and (iii) our high renewal rates. Consequently, there was an expected decrease to term license subscriptions given the aforementioned transition and customer conversions, a trend we expect to continue in the coming years. ARR was $664.3 million and $560.3 million as of March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively, representing an increase of 19%. The anticipated decrease in maintenance and services revenues was due to the conversion of existing customers to SaaS and churn despite our renewal rate continuing to be over 90% for each of the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024. We continue to expect less associated maintenance and services revenues in the future. Cost of Revenues and Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 % Change (unaudited) (in thousands) Cost of revenues $ 29,018 $ 21,349 35.9 % 31 Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (as a percentage of total revenues) Total gross margin 78.7 % 81.3 % The increase in cost of revenues was primarily related to a $4.1 million increase in third-party hosting costs associated with our transition to a SaaS delivery model. The increase is also due to a $3.5 million increase in salaries, benefits and stock-based compensation expense due to increased headcount for customer success personnel to assist with the transition to a SaaS delivery model, including our MDDR offering, to ensure high customer satisfaction and to maintain our strong renewal rates. Operating Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 % Change (unaudited) (in thousands) Operating expenses: Research and development $ 54,210 $ 47,827 13.3 % Sales and marketing 72,763 71,227 2.2 % General and administrative 24,198 21,252 13.9 % Total operating expenses $ 151,171 $ 140,306 7.7 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (as a percentage of total revenues) Operating expenses: Research and development 39.7 % 42.0 % Sales and marketing 53.3 62.5 General and administrative 17.8 18.6 Total operating expenses 110.8 % 123.1 % The increase in research and development expenses was primarily related to a $4.9 million increase in salaries, benefits and stock-based compensation expense primarily due to increased headcount and conditional consideration related to the business acquisition, an increase of $0.7 million in facilities and allocated overhead costs and a $0.6 million increase in third-party hosting costs associated with our transition to a SaaS delivery model. The increase in sales and marketing expenses was primarily related to an increase of $2.5 million in general sales and marketing expenses, including increased travel, marketing events and third-party hosting costs associated with our transition to a SaaS delivery model. This was partially offset by a $0.9 million decrease in salaries, benefits and stock-based compensation expense. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily related to an increase of $1.2 million in salaries, benefits and stock-based compensation expense primarily due to increased headcount to support the overall growth of our business, a $0.6 million increase in acquisition-related costs associated with the business acquisition and a $0.4 million increase in facilities and allocated overhead costs. 32 Financial Income, Net Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 % Change (unaudited) (in thousands) Financial income, net $ 11,951 $ 8,545 39.9 % The increase in financial income, net was primarily due to higher interest income and foreign currency gains, partially offset by amortization of premiums on marketable securities and interest expense related to the 2029 convertible note. Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 % Change (unaudited) (in thousands) Income taxes $ (3,968) $ (1,402) 183.0 % Income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2025, including the increase in income taxes, were comprised of foreign and U.S. income taxes. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table shows our liquidity and capital resources and our cash flows from operating activities, investing activities and financing activities for the stated periods: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (unaudited) (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 68,000 $ 56,723 Net cash used in investing activities (25,017) (111,966) Net cash used in financing activities (75,461) (28,446) Decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (32,478) $ (83,689) As of March 31, 2025, our cash and cash equivalents, short-term marketable securities and short-term deposits of $609.2 million were held for working capital purposes. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, short-term marketable securities, short-term deposits and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to fund our operations and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. Additionally, as of March 31, 2025, we held $591.7 million in long-term marketable securities. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth, timing of renewals and renewal rates, the expansion of our sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts and expansion into new geographic locations, the timing of introductions of new software products and enhancements to existing software products, the continuing market acceptance of our software offerings and our use of cash to pay for acquisitions or share repurchases, if any. 33 Operating Activities Our operating activities are driven by sales of our products less costs and expenses, primarily payroll and related expenses, and adjusted for certain non-cash items, mainly depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation, amortization of deferred commissions, non-cash operating lease costs, amortization of debt issuance costs, amortization of premium and accretion of discount on marketable securities and changes in operating assets and liabilities. Changes in operating assets and liabilities are driven mainly by collection of accounts receivable from the sales of our software products and deferred revenue, which primarily consists of billed fees for our subscriptions, prior to satisfying the criteria for revenue recognition, which are subsequently recognized as revenue in accordance with our revenue recognition policy. For the three months ended March 31, 2025, cash inflows from our operating activities were $68.0 million. We have observed two seasonal patterns that impact our net cash provided by operating activities. First, a majority of our sales are made during the last three weeks of the quarter. Second, the highest dollar amount of sales of our products and services occurs in the fourth quarter. Consequently, we end the fourth quarter with our highest accounts receivable balance of any quarter which in turn generates the greatest amount of collections in the following quarter. In addition, there is negative sequential sales in the first quarter, which results in a relatively lower amount collected during the second quarter. These seasonal trends also impact our operating loss because the majority of our expenses are relatively fixed in the short-term. For the three months ended March 31, 2025, cash inflows were $13.7 million from our net loss excluding non-cash charges. Additional sources of cash inflows were from changes in our working capital, including a $65.1 million decrease in accounts receivable. Our days sales outstanding (DSO) for the three months ended March 31, 2025 was 79. Other sources of cash inflows were from a $6.0 million increase in deferred revenues, a $2.0 million increase in trade payables and a $0.5 million increase in other long-term liabilities. This was partially offset by a $16.7 million decrease in accrued expenses and other short-term liabilities and a $2.5 million increase in prepaid expenses and other short-term assets (including deferred commissions). For the three months ended March 31, 2024, cash inflows from our operating activities were $56.7 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, cash inflows were $4.7 million from our net loss excluding non-cash charges. Additional sources of cash inflows were from changes in our working capital, including a $68.7 million decrease in accounts receivable. Our DSO for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was 78. Other sources of cash inflows were from a $3.6 million increase in deferred revenues, a $2.2 million increase in trade payables and a $0.2 million increase in other long-term liabilities. This was partially offset by a $16.8 million decrease in accrued expenses and other short-term liabilities, a $5.7 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets (including deferred commissions) and a $0.1 million increase in other long-term assets. Investing Activities Our investing activities consist primarily of acquisitions, capital expenditures to purchase property and equipment, including leasehold improvements, capitalized internal-use software, purchase and sale of deposits and changes in our marketable securities. In the future, we expect to continue to incur capital expenditures to support our expanding operations. During the three months ended March 31, 2025, net cash used in investing activities of $25.0 million was primarily attributable to $18.6 million of cash paid for an acquisition, $2.3 million in capital expenditures to support our growth including hardware, software, office equipment and leasehold improvements mainly in connection with existing office space, net investments of $2.1 million in deposits, net investments of $1.7 million in marketable securities and $0.3 for capitalized internal-use software expenditures. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash used in investing activities of $112.0 million was primarily attributable to net investments of $116.4 million in marketable securities and $0.3 million in capital expenditures to support our growth during the period including hardware, software, office equipment and leasehold improvements. This was partially offset by net proceeds of $4.7 million in deposits. Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2025, net cash used in financing activities of $75.5 million was attributable to $61.3 in repurchases of common stock, $21.4 million in taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards partially offset by $7.2 million of proceeds from employee stock plans. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash used in financing activities of $28.4 million was attributable to $34.9 million in taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards, partially offset by $6.4 million of proceeds from employee stock plans. 34 Convertible Notes On September 10, 2024, we issued $460.0 million aggregate principal amount of Notes (the "2029 Notes"). The net proceeds from the offering, after deducting issuance costs, were approximately $449.6 million. In connection with the issuance of the 2029 Notes, we used $55.5 million of the net proceeds to enter into Capped Call Transactions. On May 11, 2020, we issued $253.0 million aggregate principal amount of Notes (the "2025 Notes" and together with the 2029 Notes, the "Notes"). The net proceeds from the offering, after deducting issuance costs, were approximately $245.2 million. In connection with the issuance of the 2025 Notes, we used $29.3 million of the net proceeds to enter into Capped Call Transactions. For further information regarding the Notes and Capped Call Transactions, refer to Note 6 of our condensed consolidated financial statements. Share Repurchase Program In February 2025, our board of directors authorized a share repurchase program of up to $100.0 million of the Companys common stock (the Share Repurchase Program). Under the Share Repurchase Program, we are authorized to repurchase shares through open market purchases, privately-negotiated transactions or otherwise in accordance with applicable federal securities laws, including through Rule 10b5-1 trading plans and under Rule 10b-18 of the Exchange Act. As of March 31, 2025, we have $38.7 million of capacity remaining under our Share Repurchase Program which will expire on February 10, 2026. The number of shares to be purchased and the timing of purchases will be based on our trading windows, available liquidity, and general business and market conditions. Contractual Payment Obligations Our principal commitments primarily consist of obligations under leases for office space and motor vehicles. Aggregate minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable leases as of March 31, 2025 for the upcoming years were as follows: Payments Due by Period 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 Thereafter Total (in thousands) Operating lease obligations $ 9,766 $ 12,025 $ 12,059 $ 12,063 $ 8,063 $ 10,056 $ 64,032 We have obligations related to unrecognized tax benefit liabilities totaling $35.7 million and others related to severance pay, which have been excluded from the table above as we do not believe it is practicable to make reliable estimates of the periods in which payments for these obligations will be made. We also have a contractual minimum purchase commitment with a service provider through August 31, 2027 totaling $5.4 million due in the next 12 months and $21.0 million due thereafter, and an additional $25.9 million contractual minimum purchase commitment with another service provider through December 31, 2026, with no specified annual commitments. We expect to fund these obligations with cash flows from operations and cash on our balance sheet. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2025, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. 35 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We prepare our condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements also requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. We believe that our accounting policies are critical to understanding our historical and future performance, as these policies relate to the more significant areas involving managements judgments and estimates. Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that we consider the most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations because they require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of the matters that are inherently uncertain. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted In December 2023, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2023-09, Income Taxes (Topic 740) - Improvements to Income Tax Disclosures. The ASU requires that an entity disclose specific categories in the effective tax rate reconciliation as well as provide additional information for reconciling items that meet a quantitative threshold. Further, the ASU requires certain disclosures of state versus federal income tax expense and taxes paid. The amendments in this ASU are required to be adopted for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2024. Early adoption is permitted and the amendments should be applied on a prospective basis. We are currently evaluating the effect of adopting the ASU on our annual disclosures. In November 2024, the FASB issued ASU 2024-03, Income Statement-Reporting Comprehensive Income-Expense Disaggregation Disclosures (Subtopic 220-40) - Disaggregation of Income Statement Expenses. The ASU requires, among other items, additional disaggregated disclosures in the notes to the financial statements for certain categories of expenses that are included in the statements of operations. ASU 2024-03 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2026, and for interim periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2027, with early adoption permitted, and may be applied either prospectively or retrospectively. We are currently evaluating the effect of adopting the ASU on our disclosures. 36