Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2016. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. The statements contained in this report that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Forward-looking statements are often identified by the use of words such as, but not limited to, anticipate, believe, can, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, seek, should, strategy, target, will, would and similar expressions or variations intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management based on information currently available to management. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other important factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified below and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors included under Part II, Item 1A below. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. Overview We provide an innovative software platform that allows enterprises to manage, analyze and secure enterprise data. We specialize in creating software that manages and protects enterprise data against insider threats, data breaches and cyberattacks by detecting and alerting on deviations from known behavioral baselines, identifying and mitigating exposures of sensitive data and automating processes to secure enterprise data. Enterprise data under our scope is typically comprised of sensitive information that is stored in spreadsheets, emails, word processing documents, presentations, audio files, video files, text messages and any other data created by employees. This data often contains an enterprises financial information, product plans, strategic initiatives, intellectual property and numerous other forms of vital information. Our proprietary technology platform extracts critical metadata, or data about data, from an enterprises IT infrastructure and uses this contextual information to map functional relationships among employees, data objects, content and usage. IT and business personnel deploy our software for a variety of use cases, including data governance, security, management, archiving and information collaboration. We have been a pioneer in developing a software platform that allows enterprises to realize the value of their data in ways that are not resource-intensive and are easy to implement. The revolution in internet search occurred when search engines began to mine internet metadata, such as the links between pages, in addition to page content, thereby making the internets content more usable and subsequently valuable. Similarly, our software creates advanced searchable data structures and provides real-time intelligence about an enterprises massive volumes of data, making data more valuable to the organization. 13 We started operations in 2005 with a vision to make enterprise data more secure, manageable, accessible and actionable. We began offering our flagship product, DatAdvantage, which provides centralized visibility for enterprise data, in 2006. Since then we have continued to invest in innovation and have consistently introduced new products to our customers, including DataPrivilege, which was introduced in 2006, as our self-service web portal for business users. In 2008, we enhanced our DatAdvantage offering with DatAdvantage for UNIX/Linux. In 2009, we introduced the IDU Classification Framework for sensitive data classification and DatAdvantage for SharePoint. We further enhanced our DatAdvantage offering by releasing DatAdvantage for Exchange governance in 2010 which enabled our customers to exercise control over the information being transferred through corporate e-mails. In 2011, we introduced DatAdvantage for Directory Services for increased visibility into Active Directory. In 2012, we released the Data Transport Engine for intelligent data migration and archiving and DatAnywhere for secure hybrid cloud collaboration. In 2014, we introduced DatAnswers, a secure enterprise search solution for enterprise data that delivers highly relevant and secure search results to enterprise employees, greatly improving their productivity. In 2015, we enhanced our DatAdvantage, DataPrivilege and IDU Classification offerings; with DatAdvantage support for the following Microsoft Office 365 data stores: Exchange online, SharePoint online, OneDrive and Active Directory hosted in Azure; with DataPrivilege for SharePoint; and with IDU Classification Framework for UNIX, SharePoint online and OneDrive. In 2016, we enhanced our DatAdvantage offerings with additional Office 365 support; DatAnswers support for SharePoint Online and OneDrive; and introduced a new web UI for DatAlert for comprehensive security management and threat detection. We added additional user behavior analytics driven threat models to DatAlert to significantly enhance our detection of insider threats, including potential disgruntled employees, rogue administrators, hijacked accounts and malware, such as ransomware. We also established a behavioral research laboratory where a dedicated team of security experts and data scientists from Varonis continually introduce new behavior-based threat models to DatAlert. At the core of our technology is our ability to intelligently extract and analyze metadata from an enterprises vast, distributed data stores. The broad applicability of our technology has resulted in our customers deploying our platform for numerous use cases for security, IT, operations and business personnel. We currently have six product families, and, as of March 31, 2017, approximately 49% of our customers had purchased products in two or more families, one of which was DatAdvantage for all of these customers. We believe our existing customer base serves as a strong source of incremental revenues given our broad platform of products, their growing volumes and complexity of enterprise data and associated security concerns. Our maintenance renewal rate for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 was over 90%. Our key strategies to maintain our renewal rate include focusing on the quality and reliability of our customer service and support to ensure our customers receive value from our products, providing consistent software upgrades and having more dedicated renewal sales personnel. We sell substantially all of our products and services to channel partners, including distributors and resellers, which sell to end-user customers, which we refer to in this report as our customers. We believe that our sales model, which combines the leverage of a channel sales model with our highly trained and professional sales force, has and will continue to play a major role in our ability to grow and to successfully deliver our unique value proposition for enterprise data. We target customers of all sizes, in all industries and all geographies. As of March 31, 2017, we had more than 5,500 customers, spanning leading firms in the financial services, healthcare, public, industrial, insurance, energy and utilities, media and entertainment, consumer and retail, technology and education sectors. We believe our customer count is a key indicator of our market penetration and the value that our products bring to our customer base. We also believe our existing customers represent significant future revenue opportunities for us. We will continue our focus on targeting organizations with 1,000 users or more who can make larger purchases with us over time. We believe there is a significant long term growth opportunity in both domestic and foreign markets, which could include any organization that uses file shares, intranets and email for collaboration, regardless of region. For the three months ended March 31, 2017, approximately 60% of our revenues were derived from the United States, while Europe, the Middle East and Africa accounted for approximately 33% of our revenues and Rest of World (ROW) accounted for approximately 7% of our revenues. Growth in the US was particularly strong, increasing 39% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 as compared to the comparable period in the prior year. In EMEA, growth for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was 26% as compared to the comparable period in the prior year. We expect both continued sales growth in the United States and international expansion to be key components of our growth strategy, and we will continue to market our products and services in international markets. 14 We plan to continue to expand our international operations as part of our growth strategy. The expansion of our international operations depends in particular on our ability to hire, integrate and retain local sales and marketing personnel in these international markets, acquire new channel partners and implement an effective marketing strategy. Given the nominal amount of our ROW revenues, our ROW revenue growth rates have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future based on the timing of deal closures. In addition, the further expansion of our international operations will increase our sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses and will subject us to a variety of risks and challenges, including those related to economic and political conditions in each region, compliance with foreign laws and regulations, and compliance with domestic laws and regulations applicable to our international operations. We derive revenues from license sales of our products, services, including initial maintenance contracts and professional services, and renewals. Substantially all of our license sales are derived from a platform of products, consisting of DatAdvantage, DataPrivilege, IDU Classification Framework and Data Transport Engine. As of March 31, 2017 and 2016, 93.1% and 92.4% of our customers, respectively, had purchased DatAdvantage; 15.8%, and 16.8% of our customers, respectively, had purchased DataPrivilege; 36.5%, and 31.3% of our customers, respectively, had purchased IDU Classification Framework; and 5.7% and 4.6% of our customers, respectively, had purchased Data Transport Engine. As of March 31, 2017 and 2016, 44.0% and 47.0% of our customers, respectively, made standalone purchases of DatAdvantage, and approximately 0.4% of our customers made standalone purchases of DataPrivilege. As of March 31, 2017, our customers made no standalone purchases of IDU Classification Framework or Data Transport Engine. License sales accounted for 47.4% and 45.4% of our total revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We have achieved significant growth and scale in recent periods utilizing our business model. For the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, our revenues were $40.4 million and $30.5 million, respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 33%. For the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, we had operating losses of $11.0 million and $10.8 million and net losses of $10.9 million and $10.4 million, respectively. Components of Operating Results Revenues Our revenues consist of licenses and maintenance and services revenues. License Revenues. License revenues reflect the revenues recognized from sales of software licenses to new customers and additional licenses to existing customers. Substantially all of our license revenues consist of revenues from perpetual licenses, under which we generally recognize the license fee portion of the arrangement upon delivery, assuming all revenue recognition criteria are satisfied. Customers may also purchase term license agreements, under which we recognize the license fee ratably, on a straight-line basis, over the term of the underlying maintenance contract, which is typically up to one year. We are focused on acquiring new customers and increasing revenues from our existing customers. Maintenance and Services Revenues. Maintenance and services revenues consist of revenues from maintenance agreements and, to a lesser extent, professional services. Typically, when purchasing a perpetual license, a customer also purchases a one year maintenance contract for which we charge a percentage of the license fee. Customers may renew, and generally have renewed, their maintenance agreements for a fee that is based upon a percentage of the initial license fee paid. Customers with maintenance agreements are entitled to receive support and unspecified upgrades and enhancements when and if they become available during the maintenance period. We have experienced growth in maintenance revenues primarily due to increased license sales to new customers and high annual retention of existing customers. We recognize the revenues associated with maintenance ratably, on a straight-line basis, over the associated maintenance period. We measure the perpetual license maintenance renewal rate for our customers over a 12-month period, based on a dollar renewal rate for contracts expiring during that time period. Our maintenance renewal rate for each of the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 has been over 90%. We also offer professional services focused on both deployment and training our customers to fully leverage the use of our products. We recognize the revenues associated with these professional services on a time and materials basis as we deliver the services, provide the training or when the service term has expired. 15 The following table sets forth the percentage of our revenues that have been derived from licenses and maintenance and services revenues for the periods presented. Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 (as a percentage of total revenues) Revenues: Licenses 47.4 % 45.4 % Maintenance and services 52.6 54.6 Total revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % Our products are used by a wide range of enterprises, including Fortune 500 corporations and small and medium-sized businesses. As of March 31, 2017, we had more than 5,500 customers across a broad array of company sizes and industries located in over 70 countries. Cost of Revenues, Gross Profit and Gross Margin Our cost of revenues consists of cost of maintenance and services revenues. Cost of maintenance and services revenues consist primarily of salaries (including payroll tax expense related to stock-based compensation), employee benefits (including commissions and bonuses) and stock-based compensation for our maintenance and services employees; travel expenses; and allocated overhead costs for facilities, IT and depreciation of equipment. We recognize expenses related to maintenance and services as they are incurred. We expect that our cost of maintenance and services revenues will increase in absolute dollars as we increase our headcount to support revenue growth. Gross profit is total revenues less total cost of revenues. Gross margin is gross profit expressed as a percentage of total revenues. Our gross margin has historically fluctuated slightly from period to period as a result of changes in the mix of license and maintenance and services revenues. Due to the seasonality of our business, the first quarter typically results in the lowest gross margin as our first quarter revenues have historically been the lowest for the year and the majority of our expenses are relatively fixed quarter over quarter. Operating Costs and Expenses Our operating costs and expenses are classified into three categories: research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative. For each category, the largest component is personnel costs, which consists of salaries (including payroll tax expense related to stock-based compensation), employee benefits (including commissions and bonuses) and stock-based compensation. Operating costs and expenses also include allocated overhead costs for depreciation of equipment. Allocated costs for facilities primarily consist of rent and office maintenance. Operating costs and expenses are generally recognized as incurred. We expect personnel costs to continue to increase in absolute dollars as we hire new employees to continue to grow our business. Research and Development . Research and development expenses primarily consist of personnel costs attributable to our research and development personnel, as well as allocated overhead costs. We expense research and development costs as incurred. We expect that our research and development expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars as we increase our research and development headcount to further strengthen our technology platform and invest in the development of both existing and new products. Sales and Marketing . Sales and marketing expenses are the largest component of our operating costs and expenses and consist primarily of personnel costs, as well as marketing and business development costs, travel expenses, training and education and allocated overhead costs. We expect that sales and marketing expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars, as we plan to expand our sales and marketing efforts, both domestically and internationally. We expect sales and marketing expenses to be our largest category of operating costs and expenses as we continue to expand our business worldwide. 16 General and Administrativ e. General and administrative expenses mostly consist of personnel and facility-related costs for our executive, finance, legal, human resources and administrative personnel. Other expenses are comprised of legal, accounting and other consultant fees and other corporate expenses and allocated overhead. We expect that general and administrative expense will increase in absolute dollars as we grow and expand our operations and once we no longer qualify as an emerging growth company, including higher legal, corporate insurance and accounting expenses, and the additional costs of achieving and maintaining compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the Sarbanes-Oxley Act) and related regulations. Financial Income (Expenses), Net Financial income (expenses), net consist primarily of foreign exchange gains or losses and net interest. Foreign exchange gains or losses relate to our business activities in foreign countries with different operational reporting currencies. As a result of our business activities in foreign countries, we expect that foreign exchange gains or losses will continue to occur due to fluctuations in exchange rates in the countries where we do business. The United Kingdoms decision to exit the European Union (Brexit), as well as other member countries public discussions about the possibility of also withdrawing, could also contribute to instability and volatility in the global financial and foreign exchange markets, including volatility in the value of Pounds Sterling, Euros and other currencies. Net interest represents interest income received on our cash, cash equivalents and short-term deposits. Income Taxes We operate in several tax jurisdictions and are subject to taxes in each country or jurisdiction in which we conduct business. Earnings from our non-U.S. activities are subject to local country income tax and may be subject to U.S. income tax. To date, on a consolidated basis, we have incurred accumulated net losses and have not recorded any U.S. federal tax provisions. Because of our history of U.S. and Israel net operating losses, we have established a full valuation allowance against potential future benefits for deferred tax assets including loss carryforwards. Our income tax provision could be significantly impacted by estimates surrounding our uncertain tax positions and changes to our valuation allowance in future periods. We reevaluate the judgments surrounding our estimates and make adjustments as appropriate each reporting period. Our Israeli subsidiary currently qualifies as a Beneficiary Enterprise which, upon fulfillment of certain conditions, allows it to qualify for a reduced tax rate based on the beneficiary program guidelines. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examinations of our income tax returns by different tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. 17 Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 The following tables are a summary of our consolidated statements of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 in dollars and as a percentage of our total revenues. Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 (unaudited) (in thousands) Statement of Operations Data: Revenues: Licenses $ 19,155 $ 13,844 Maintenance and services 21,225 16,626 Total revenues 40,380 30,470 Cost of revenues 4,672 3,496 Gross profit 35,708 26,974 Operating costs and expenses: Research and development 10,409 8,837 Sales and marketing 30,811 24,364 General and administrative 5,513 4,562 Total operating expenses 46,733 37,763 Operating loss (11,025 ) (10,789 ) Financial income, net 469 645 Loss before income taxes (10,556 ) (10,144 ) Income taxes (323 ) (206 ) Net loss $ (10,879 ) $ (10,350 ) Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 ( as a percentage of total revenues) Statement of Operations Data: Revenues: Licenses 47.4 % 45.4 % Maintenance and services 52.6 54.6 Total revenues 100.0 100.0 Cost of revenues 11.6 11.5 Gross profit 88.4 88.5 Operating costs and expenses: Research and development 25.8 29.0 Sales and marketing 76.2 79.9 General and administrative 13.7 15.0 Total operating expenses 115.7 123.9 Operating loss (27.3 ) (35.4 ) Financial income, net 1.2 2.1 Loss before income taxes (26.1 ) (33.3 ) Income taxes (0.8 ) (0.7 ) Net loss (26.9 )% (34.0 )% 18 Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 % Change (unaudited) (in thousands) Revenues: Licenses $ 19,155 $ 13,844 38.4 % Maintenance and services 21,225 16,626 27.7 % Total revenues $ 40,380 $ 30,470 32.5 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 (as a percentage of total revenues) Revenues: Licenses 47.4 % 45.4 % Maintenance and services 52.6 % 54.6 % Total revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % Total revenue growth was achieved due to increased demand for our products and services from existing and new customers, mostly in the domestic market, as well as in international markets. The increase in license revenues was driven by sales to existing customers as well as larger aggregate sales to 187 new customers in the three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to the aggregate sales from 223 new customers in the three months ended March 31, 2016. As of March 31, 2017 and 2016, we had more than 5,500 and more than 4,550 customers, respectively. Almost all of our license revenues was attributable to sales of perpetual licenses. The increase in maintenance and services revenues was primarily due to an increase in the sale of maintenance agreements resulting from the growth of our installed customer base. In each of the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, our maintenance renewal rate was over 90%. Of the license and first year maintenance and services revenues recognized in the three months ended March 31, 2017, 53% was attributable to revenues from new customers, and 47% was attributable to revenues from existing customers. Of the license and first year maintenance and services revenues recognized in the three months ended March 31, 2016, 63% was attributable to revenues from new customers, and 37% was attributable to revenues from existing customers. As of March 31, 2017 and 2016, 49% and 45%, respectively, of our customers had purchased two or more product families. Cost of Revenues and Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 % Change (unaudited) (in thousands) Cost of revenues $ 4,672 $ 3,496 33.6 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 (as a percentage of total revenues) Total gross margin 88.4 % 88.5 % 19 The increase in cost of revenues was primarily related to an increase of $1.1 million in salaries and benefits and stock based compensation expense due to increased headcount for support personnel to support our increased revenues and high renewal rate. Operating Costs and Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 % Change (unaudited) (in thousands) Operating costs and expenses: Research and development $ 10,409 $ 8,837 17.8 % Sales and marketing 30,811 24,364 26.5 % General and administrative 5,513 4,562 20.8 % Total operating expenses $ 46,733 $ 37,763 23.8 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 (as a percentage of total revenues) Operating costs and expenses: Research and development 25.8 % 29.0 % Sales and marketing 76.2 % 79.9 % General and administrative 13.7 % 15.0 % Total operating expenses 115.7 % 123.9 % The increase in research and development expenses was primarily related to an increase of $1.6 million in salaries and stock based compensation expense resulting from increased headcount as part of our focus on enhancing and developing our existing and new products. The increase in sales and marketing expenses was primarily related to a $5.6 million increase in salaries and benefits and stock based compensation expense due to increased headcount to expand our sales force and commissions on increased customer orders. Of the remainder, $0.3 million of the increase was related to training and education of our sales force. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily related to an increase of $0.7 million in salaries and benefits and stock based compensation expense due to increased headcount to support the overall growth of our business and an increase of $0.3 million of other expenses predominately relating to IT. Financial Income, Net Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 % Change (unaudited) (in thousands) Financial income, net $ 469 $ 645 (27.3 )% Financial income, net for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 was primarily due to foreign currency gains. 20 Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 % Change (unaudited) (in thousands) Income taxes $ (323 ) $ (206 ) 56.8 % Income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 were comprised primarily of foreign income taxes. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table shows our cash flows from operating activities, investing activities and financing activities for the stated periods: Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 (unaudited) (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 8,297 $ 5,442 Net cash used in investing activities (6,424 ) (989 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 882 761 Increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 2,755 $ 5,214 On March 31, 2017, our cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits of $121.3 million were held for working capital purposes and were invested primarily in short-term deposits. We intend to increase our investment in capital expenditures in 2017, consistent with the growth in our business and operations. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, short-term deposits and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to fund our operations and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth, the expansion of our sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts and expansion into new geographic locations, the timing of introductions of new software products and enhancements to existing software products and the continuing market acceptance of our software offerings. Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities is driven by sales of our products less costs and expenses, primarily payroll and related expenses, and adjusted for certain non-cash items, mainly depreciation and stock-based compensation, and changes in operating assets and liabilities. Changes in operating assets and liabilities are driven mainly by collection of accounts receivable from the sales of our software products and services and deferred revenues which represent unearned amounts billed to our channel partners, related to these sales. For the three months ended March 31, 2017, cash inflows from our operating activities were $8.3 million. We have observed two seasonal patterns that impact our net cash provided by operating activities. First, a majority of our sales are made during the last four weeks of the quarter. Second, the highest dollar amount of sales of our products and services occurs in the fourth quarter. Consequently, we end the fourth quarter with our highest accounts receivable balance of any quarter which in turn generates the greatest amount of collections in the following quarter. This pattern was observed for the three months ended March 31, 2017, and the resulting decrease in account receivable provided a $26.4 million source of cash. Our days sales outstanding (DSO) for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was 66 days. For the three months ended March 31, 2017, the $0.3 million increase in trade payables provided an additional source of cash inflows. This was partially offset by our net loss excluding non-cash charges of $5.9 million. Our net loss was primarily driven by increased headcount of our sales and research and development personnel. Additional sources of cash outflows included a $6.4 million decrease in accrued expenses and other short term liabilities, a $3.2 million decrease in deferred revenues, a $2.5 million increase in prepaid expenses and a $0.4 million decrease in severance and other long term liabilities. 21 For the three months ended March 31, 2016, cash inflows from our operating activities were $5.4 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2016, sources of cash inflows were from changes in our working capital, including a $23.0 million decrease in accounts receivable reflecting the seasonal pattern discussed above. Our DSO was 80 days for the three months ended March 31, 2016. This was partially offset by our net loss of $7.3 million, which excludes non-cash charges. Our net loss was primarily driven by increased headcount of our sales force and R&D personnel. Additional sources of cash outflows included a $4.6 million decrease in accrued expenses and other short term liabilities, a $2.7 million decrease in deferred revenues, a $1.9 million decrease in accounts payable, a $0.6 million increase in prepaid and other current assets and a $0.5 million decrease in other long term liabilities. Investing Activities Our investing activities consist primarily of capital expenditures to purchase property and equipment, maturities and purchases of short-term investments and changes in our restricted cash. In the future, we expect to continue to incur capital expenditures to support our expanding operations. During the three months ended March 31, 2017, net cash used in investing activities of $6.4 million was primarily attributable to a $4.8 million increase in short-term deposits and $1.5 million in capital expenditures to support our growth during the period including hardware, software, office equipment and leasehold improvements mainly in connection with new office space. During the three months ended March 31, 2016, net cash used in investing activities of $1.0 million was primarily attributable to $0.7 million in capital expenditures to support our growth during the period including hardware, software, office equipment and leasehold improvements mainly in connection with new office space and an increase of $0.3 million in short-term deposits. Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, net cash provided by financing activities of $0.9 million and $0.8 million, respectively, was attributable to net proceeds from employee stock plans. Promissory Note On March 31, 2014, we entered into a promissory note and related security documents with Bank Leumi USA. We may borrow up to $7.0 million against certain of our accounts receivable outstanding amount, based on several conditions, at an annual interest rate of the Wall Street Journal Prime Rate less 0.15%. As of March 31, 2017, that rate amounted to 3.85%. This promissory note enables us, among other things, to engage in foreign currency hedging transactions with Bank Leumi USA to manage our exposure to foreign currency risk without restricted cash requirements. We may borrow under the promissory note until May 15, 2017 at which time the principal sum of each such loan, together with accrued and unpaid interest payable, will become due and payable. As of March 31, 2017, we had no balance outstanding under the promissory note. As part of the transaction, we granted the lender a security interest in our personal property, excluding intellectual property and other intangible assets. The promissory note also contains customary events of default. 22 Contractual Payment Obligations Our principal commitments primarily consist of obligations under leases for office space and motor vehicles. Aggregate minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable leases as of March 31, 2017 for the upcoming years were as follows: Payments Due by Period 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Thereafter Total (in thousands) Operating lease obligations $ 3,828 $ 4,706 $ 4,764 $ 3,462 $ 3,472 $ 13,041 $ 33,723 We have obligations related to unrecognized tax benefit liabilities totaling $1.8 million and for severance pay, which have been excluded from the table above as we do not believe it is practicable to make reliable estimates of the periods in which payments for these obligations will be made. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2017, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The preparation of consolidated financial statements also requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. We believe that the accounting policies discussed below are critical to understanding our historical and future performance, as these policies relate to the more significant areas involving managements judgments and estimates. Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that we consider the most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations because they require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of the matters that are inherently uncertain. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, an updated standard on revenue recognition and issued subsequent amendments to the initial guidance in March 2016, April 2016, May 2016 and December 2016 within ASU 2016-08, 2016-10, 2016-12 and 2016-20, respectively. The new standards provide enhancements to the quality and consistency of how revenue is reported while also improving comparability in the financial statements of companies reporting using IFRS and US GAAP. The core principle of the new standard is for companies to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers in amounts that reflect the consideration (that is, payment) to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The new standard also will result in enhanced disclosures about revenue, provide guidance for transactions that were not previously addressed comprehensively (for example, service revenue and contract modifications) and improve guidance for multiple-element arrangements. ASU 2014-09 was initially scheduled to be effective for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016 and may be adopted either on a full retrospective or modified retrospective approach. However, on July 9, 2015, the FASB approved a one year deferral of the effective date of ASU 2014-09. The revised effective date is for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017 and interim periods thereafter, with an early adoption permitted as of the original effective date. We have begun to evaluate the effect the new revenue recognition standard will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures but have not completed our evaluation and implementation process. We intend to complete this process in 2017 and will adopt the new standard on January 1, 2018, using the full retrospective method. Based on our preliminary evaluation to date, we believe adoption of the new standard may have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In May 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-11, Revenue Recognition: Customer Payments and Incentives, which clarifies the guidance in recognizing costs for consideration given by a vendor to a customer as a component of cost of sales. This ASU is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2017. We are currently evaluating the impact of this standard on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. 23 In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases, on the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both parties to a contract (i.e., lessees and lessors). The new standard requires lessees to apply a dual approach, classifying leases as either finance or operating leases based on the principle of whether or not the lease is effectively a financed purchase by the lessee. This classification will determine whether lease expense is recognized based on an effective interest method or on a straight line basis over the term of the lease, respectively. A lessee is also required to record a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for all leases with a term of greater than 12 months regardless of their classification. Leases with a term of 12 months or less will be accounted for in a manner similar to the accounting under existing guidance for operating leases today. The new standard requires lessors to account for leases using an approach that is substantially equivalent to existing guidance for sales-type leases, direct financing leases and operating leases. ASC 842 supersedes the previous leases standard, ASC 840, "Leases". The guidance is effective for the interim and annual periods beginning on or after December 15, 2018, and early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating whether to early adopt this standard and the potential effect of the guidance on our consolidated financial statements. In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-18, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Restricted Cash, which requires companies to include amounts generally described as restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents in cash and cash equivalents when reconciling beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown on the statement of cash flows. This ASU is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2017 and early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating whether to early adopt this standard and the potential effect of the guidance on our consolidated financial statements.