Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2018 . Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. The statements contained in this report that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Forward-looking statements are often identified by the use of words such as, but not limited to, anticipate, believe, can, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, seek, should, strategy, target, will, would and similar expressions or variations intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management based on information currently available to management. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other important factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified below and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors included under Part II, Item 1A below. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. Overview Varonis is a pioneer in data security and analytics, fighting a different battle than conventional cybersecurity companies. We are pioneers because over a decade ago, we recognized that enterprise capacity to create and share data far exceeded its capacity to protect it. We believed the vast movement of information from analog to digital mediums combined with increasing information dependence would change both the global economy and the risk profiles of corporations and government. Since then our focus has been on using innovation to address the cyber-implications of this movement, creating software that provides new ways to track and protect data wherever it is stored. Our software specializes in data protection, threat detection and response and compliance. Varonis software enables enterprises to protect data stored on premises and in the cloud: sensitive files and emails; confidential customer, patient and employee data; financial records; strategic and product plans; and other intellectual property. Recognizing the complexities of securing data, we have built a single integrated platform for security and analytics to simplify and streamline security and data management. The Varonis Data Security Platform, built on patented technology, helps enterprises protect data against insider threats and cyberattacks. Our products enable enterprises to analyze data, account activity and user behavior to detect attacks. Our Data Security Platform prevents or limits unauthorized use of sensitive information, prevents potential cyberattacks and limits others by locking down sensitive and stale data. Our products efficiently sustain a secure state with automation and addresses additional important use cases including data protection, governance, compliance, classification and threat detection and response. Our Data Security Platform is driven by a proprietary technology, our Metadata Framework, that extracts critical metadata, or data about data, from an enterprises IT infrastructure. Our Data Security Platform uses this contextual information to map functional relationships among employees, data objects, content and usage. We started operations in 2005 with a vision to make enterprise data more accessible, manageable, secure and actionable. We began offering our flagship product, DatAdvantage, which provides centralized visibility for enterprise data, in 2006. Since then we have continued to invest in innovation and have consistently introduced new products to our customers. In 2006, we introduced DataPrivilege as our self-service web portal for business users. In 2008, we enhanced our DatAdvantage offering with DatAdvantage for UNIX/Linux. In 2009, we introduced the IDU Classification Framework (later renamed the Data Classification Engine) for sensitive data classification and DatAdvantage for SharePoint. We further enhanced our DatAdvantage offering by releasing DatAdvantage for Exchange in 2010, enabling our customers to exercise control over the information transferred through corporate e-mails. In 2011, we introduced DatAdvantage for Directory Services for increased visibility into Active Directory. 18 In 2012, we released the Data Transport Engine for intelligent data migration and archiving and DatAnywhere for secure hybrid cloud collaboration. In 2013, we introduced DatAlert to monitor and alert on sensitive data and file activity. In 2014, we introduced DatAnswers, a secure enterprise search solution for enterprise data that delivers highly relevant and secure search results to enterprise employees, greatly improving their productivity. In 2015, we enhanced our DatAdvantage, DataPrivilege and Data Classification Engine offerings; with DatAdvantage support for the following Microsoft Office 365 data stores: Exchange Online, SharePoint Online, OneDrive and Active Directory hosted in Azure; with DataPrivilege for SharePoint; and with Data Classification Engine for UNIX, SharePoint Online and OneDrive. In 2016, we enhanced our DatAdvantage offerings with additional Office 365 support; DatAnswers support for SharePoint Online and OneDrive; and introduced a new web UI for DatAlert for comprehensive security management and threat detection. In that year we also added additional user behavior analytics driven threat models to DatAlert to significantly enhance our detection of insider threats, including potential disgruntled employees, rogue administrators, hijacked accounts and malware, such as ransomware. We also established a behavioral research laboratory where a dedicated team of security experts and data scientists from Varonis continually research the latest threats and emerging security vulnerabilities and introduce new behavior-based threat models to DatAlert. In 2017, we introduced the Automation Engine to allow customers to automatically repair and maintain file systems so that organizations are less vulnerable to attacks and security breaches, more compliant and consistently meeting a least privilege model. We enhanced DatAlert with DatAlert Analytics Rewind to allow customers to analyze past user and data activity to identify security breaches that may have occurred in the past and pre-emptively tune out false positives. We updated our web UI for DatAlert and added new threat models to detect suspicious mailbox, Exchange and Exchange Online behaviors, password resets and unusual activity from personal devices. We introduced a new security dashboard in DatAlert, along with enhanced behavioral analytics, geolocation and more to make it easier than ever to perform security investigations and forensics. In 2017, we also released GDPR Patterns, part of the Data Classification Engine family, to help enterprises identify data that falls under the European Union's ("EU") General Data Protection Regulation ("GDPR") and expanded our offerings that can help enterprises meet compliance and regulation requirements. In 2018, we introduced Varonis Edge to extend our proactive security approach, enabling customers to spot signs of attack at the perimeter by analyzing telemetry from DNS, VPN and Web Proxies. We introduced Data Classification Labels, part of the Data Classification Engine family, to integrate with Microsoft Information Protection (MIP) and enable customers to better classify, track and secure files across enterprise data stores. We enhanced DatAnswers to address additional compliance requirements from new data privacy laws and standards. We added classification categories to the Data Classification Engine, to better identify and analyze regulated data like GDPR, PII, PCI and PHI. We updated the DataPrivilege UI for improved usability and added classification categories making it easier to see who can access regulated data. We updated our web UI and introduced new features to DatAlert, including new threat models to combat cyberattacks, support for more data stores and optimizations to make DatAlert faster and more intuitive for security investigations. In the first quarter of 2019, we introduced updates to our existing products to include new dashboards to highlight cloud, Active Directory and GDPR security risks so that customers can easily identify critical risk in their hybrid environments, including vulnerable user accounts, at-risk cloud data and potential compliance violations. We extended our cloud support to include Box; added threat intelligence to our security insights; built incident response playbooks directly into the UI; and made usability and performance improvements. At the core of our technology is our ability to intelligently extract and analyze metadata from an enterprises vast, distributed data stores. The broad applicability of our technology has resulted in our customers deploying our platform for numerous use cases for security, IT, operations and business personnel. We currently have six product families, and, as of March 31, 2019 and 2018 , approximately 73% and 70% of our customers, respectively, had purchased products in two or more families, one of which was DatAdvantage for all of these customers. As of March 31, 2019 and 2018 , approximately 41% and 37% of our customers, respectively, had purchased products in three or more families. We believe our existing customer base serves as a strong source of incremental revenues given our broad platform of products, their growing volumes and complexity of enterprise data and associated security concerns. Our maintenance renewal rate for each of the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 was over 90%. Our key strategies to maintain our renewal rate include focusing on the quality and reliability of our customer service and support to ensure our customers receive value from our products, providing consistent software upgrades and having sufficient dedicated renewal sales personnel. We sell substantially all of our products and services to channel partners, including distributors and resellers, which sell to end-user customers, which we refer to in this report as our customers. We believe that our sales model, which combines the leverage of a channel sales model with our highly trained and professional sales force, has and will continue to play a major role in our ability to grow and to successfully deliver our unique value proposition for enterprise data. While our products serve customers of all sizes, in all industries and all geographies, the marketing focus and majority of our sales focus is on targeting 19 organizations with 1,000 users or more who can make larger purchases with us over time and have a greater potential lifetime value. As of March 31, 2019 , we had approximately 6,700 customers, spanning leading firms in the financial services, public, healthcare, industrial, insurance, energy and utilities, consumer and retail, media and entertainment, technology and education sectors. We believe our customer count is a key indicator of our market penetration and the value that our products bring to our customer base. We also believe our existing customers represent significant future revenue opportunities for us. We will continue our focus on targeting organizations with 1,000 users or more who can make larger purchases with us over time. We believe there is a significant long-term growth opportunity in both domestic and foreign markets, which could include any organization that uses file shares, intranets and email for collaboration, regardless of region. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , approximately 67% of our revenues were derived from North America, while Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA") accounted for approximately 29% of our revenues and Rest of World (ROW) accounted for approximately 4% of our revenues. Growth in North America was 20% for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to the comparable period in the prior year. We expect sales growth in North America and international expansion to be key components of our growth strategy, and we will continue to market our products and services in international markets. We plan to continue to expand our international operations as part of our growth strategy. The expansion of our international operations depends in particular on our ability to hire, integrate and retain local sales and marketing personnel in these international markets, acquire new channel partners and implement an effective marketing strategy. Given the nominal amount of our ROW revenues, our ROW revenue growth rates have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future based on the timing of deal closures. In addition, the further expansion of our international operations will increase our sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses and will subject us to a variety of risks and challenges, including those related to economic and political conditions in each region, compliance with foreign laws and regulations, and compliance with domestic laws and regulations applicable to our international operations. We derive revenues from license sales of our products, services, including initial maintenance contracts and professional services, and renewals. Perpetual license revenues consist of the revenues recognized from sales of perpetual licenses to new and existing customers. Subscription revenues are comprised of time-based licenses whereby customers use our software with related maintenance for a specified period. While historically fees from subscription licenses comprised an insignificant amount of our revenues, we expect that over the next several years revenues from subscription licenses will become a more significant portion of our total revenues as we continue to transition to a subscription-based business model. As a result, we expect subscription revenues to comprise a larger proportion of our total revenues in the future, resulting in revenues that are more recurring and predictable. Substantially all of our license sales are derived from a platform of products, consisting of DatAdvantage, DatAlert, Data Classification Engine, DataPrivilege and Data Transport Engine. As of March 31, 2019 and 2018 , 100.0% and 99.6% of our customers, respectively, had purchased DatAdvantage; 51.3% and 48.1% of our customers, respectively, had purchased DatAlert; 50.1% and 45.2% of our customers, respectively, had purchased Data Classification Engine; 15.4% and 16.0% of our customers, respectively, had purchased DataPrivilege; and 7.9% and 6.9% of our customers, respectively, had purchased Data Transport Engine. As of March 31, 2019 and 2018 , 26.5% and 29.4% of our customers, respectively, made standalone purchases of DatAdvantage. No other product families outside of DatAdvantage can be sold on a standalone basis. Perpetual license sales accounted for 27.5% and 45.0% of our total revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. Subscription licenses accounted for 12.5% and 2.0% of our total revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively, and 31.1% and 4.3% of our license revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. We expect that over the next several years revenues from subscription licenses will become a more significant portion of our total revenues as we continue to transition to a subscription-based business model. We have achieved significant growth and scale since inception under a perpetual business model. In the first quarter of 2019, we announced our transition to a subscription-based business model. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 , subscription revenues were $7.0 million and $1.1 million, respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 554% and providing us with revenues that are more recurring and predictable. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 , our total revenues were $56.4 million and $53.5 million, respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 5%. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 , we had operating losses of $22.0 million and $15.5 million and net losses of $22.6 million and $15.0 million, respectively. Components of Operating Results Transition to Subscription-Based Business Model 20 In the first quarter of 2019, we announced our transition to a subscription-based business model which, due to shifts in the mix of perpetual and subscription licenses, could produce significant variation in the reported revenues for a given period. In order to normalize between perpetual revenues and subscription revenues, we have defined a conversion factor of approximately 2.2 whereby subscription revenues are multiplied by the conversion factor to yield the equivalent perpetual revenues. We arrived at the conversion factor of approximately 2.2 by considering many variables, including perpetual price list, average discount levels provided on perpetual deals, mix of new and upsell revenues and number of users and licenses sold. This conversion factor of approximately 2.2 was calculated for the three months ended March 31, 2019, and we expect it to vary between 2.2-2.5 for the year ended 2019 based on a number of variables. Annual recurring revenues ("ARR") are a key performance indicator defined as the annualized value of all recurring revenues related to active contracts at the end of each period. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 , ARR was $138.7 million and $103.0 million, respectively, an increase of 35% period over period. We expect ARR to increase as we continue our transition to a subscription-based business model. We could encounter significant variations in ARR in a given period due to the shifts in the mix of perpetual and subscription licenses. Revenues Our revenues consist of both perpetual and subscription licenses and maintenance and services revenues. Perpetual License Revenues. Perpetual license revenues reflect the revenues recognized from sales of perpetual licenses to new customers and sales of additional perpetual licenses to existing customers who can purchase additional users for existing licenses or purchase new licenses. Our license revenues consist of revenues from perpetual licenses, under which we generally recognize the license fee portion of the arrangement upon delivery as the benefit of the asset has transferred. Subscription Revenues. Subscription revenues are comprised of time-based licenses whereby customers use our software with related maintenance for a specified period. Subscription revenues are sold on premises with the same functionality as the perpetual license and are recognized from sales of subscription and maintenance licenses to new and existing customers. Similar to perpetual license revenues, subscription license revenues are recognized at the point of time when the software license has been delivered and the benefit of the asset has transferred. We expect revenues from subscription licenses to become a larger percentage of our total license revenues. Due to the shifts in the mix of perpetual and subscription licenses, we could produce significant variation in the revenues we recognize in a given period. We are focused on acquiring new subscription customers and increasing subscription revenues from our existing customers. Maintenance and Services Revenues. Maintenance and services revenues consist of revenues from maintenance agreements of perpetual license sales and, to a lesser extent, professional services. Typically, when purchasing a perpetual license, a customer also purchases a one year maintenance contract for which we charge a percentage of the license fee. Customers may renew, and generally have renewed, their maintenance agreements for a fee that is based upon a percentage of the initial license fee paid. Customers with maintenance agreements are entitled to receive support and unspecified upgrades and enhancements when and if they become available during the maintenance period. We have experienced growth in maintenance revenues primarily due to increased license sales to new and existing customers and high annual retention of existing customers. We recognize the revenues associated with maintenance ratably, on a straight-line basis, over the associated maintenance period. We measure the perpetual license maintenance renewal rate for our customers over a 12-month period, based on a dollar renewal rate for contracts expiring during that time period. Our maintenance renewal rate for each of the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 has been over 90%. We also offer professional services focused on training our customers in the use of our products, providing advice on deployment planning, network design, product configuration and implementation, automating and customizing reports and tuning policies and configuration. We recognize the revenues associated with these professional services, which are generally provided on a time and materials basis, as we deliver the services, provide the training or when the service term has expired. The following table sets forth the percentage of our revenues that have been derived from licenses and maintenance and services revenues for the periods presented. 21 Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 (as a percentage of total revenues) Revenues: Perpetual licenses 27.5 % 45.0 % Subscriptions 12.5 2.0 Maintenance and services 60.0 53.0 Total revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 (as a percentage of total perpetual licenses and subscriptions revenues) Perpetual Licenses and Subscriptions Revenues: Perpetual licenses 68.9 % 95.7 % Subscriptions 31.1 % 4.3 % Total perpetual licenses and subscriptions revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % Our products are used by a wide range of enterprises, including Fortune 500 corporations and small and medium-sized businesses. As of March 31, 2019 , we had approximately 6,700 customers across a broad array of company sizes and industries located in 80 countries. Cost of Revenues, Gross Profit and Gross Margin Our cost of revenues consists of cost of maintenance and services revenues. Cost of maintenance and services revenues consist primarily of salaries (including payroll tax expense related to stock-based compensation), employee benefits (including commissions and bonuses) and stock-based compensation for our maintenance and services employees; travel expenses; and allocated overhead costs for facilities, IT and depreciation of equipment. We recognize expenses related to maintenance and services as they are incurred. We expect that our cost of maintenance and services revenues will increase in absolute dollars as we increase our teams that support our transition to a subscription-based business model: professional services and customer success teams. Gross profit is total revenues less total cost of revenues. Gross margin is gross profit expressed as a percentage of total revenues. Our gross margin will fluctuate from period to period as a result of changes in the mix of perpetual and subscription license as we continue to transition to a subscription-based business model. Due to the seasonality of our business, the first quarter typically results in the lowest gross margin as our first quarter revenues have historically been the lowest for the year and the majority of our expenses are relatively fixed quarter over quarter. Conversely, the fourth quarter typically results in the highest gross margin as our fourth quarter revenues have historically been the highest for the year. Operating Costs and Expenses Our operating costs and expenses are classified into three categories: research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative. For each category, the largest component is personnel costs, which consists of salaries (including payroll tax expense related to stock-based compensation), employee benefits (including commissions and bonuses) and stock-based compensation. Operating costs and expenses also include allocated overhead costs for depreciation of equipment. Allocated costs for facilities primarily consist of rent and office maintenance. Operating costs and expenses are generally recognized as incurred. We expect personnel costs to continue to increase in absolute dollars as we hire new employees to continue to grow our business. Research and Development . Research and development expenses primarily consist of personnel costs attributable to our research and development personnel, as well as allocated overhead costs. We expense research and development costs as 22 incurred. We expect that our research and development expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars as we increase our research and development headcount to further strengthen our technology platform and invest in the development of both existing and new products. Sales and Marketing . Sales and marketing expenses are the largest component of our operating costs and expenses and consist primarily of personnel costs, as well as marketing and business development costs, travel expenses, training and education and allocated overhead costs. We expect that sales and marketing expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars, as we plan to expand our sales and marketing efforts, both domestically and internationally. We expect sales and marketing expenses to be our largest category of operating costs and expenses as we continue to expand our business worldwide. General and Administrativ e. General and administrative expenses mostly consist of personnel and facility-related costs for our executive, finance, legal, human resources and administrative personnel. Other expenses are comprised of legal, accounting and other consultant fees and other corporate expenses and allocated overhead. We expect that general and administrative expense will increase in absolute dollars as we grow and expand our operations, including higher legal, corporate insurance and accounting expenses, and the additional costs of achieving and maintaining compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related regulations. Financial Income (Expenses), Net Financial income (expenses), net consist primarily of foreign exchange gains or losses and interest income. Foreign exchange gains or losses relate to our business activities in foreign countries with different operational reporting currencies. As a result of our business activities in foreign countries, we expect that foreign exchange gains or losses will continue to occur due to fluctuations in exchange rates in the countries where we do business. The United Kingdoms exit from the EU, commonly referred to as Brexit," as well as other member countries public discussions about the possibility of withdrawing from the EU, could also contribute to instability and volatility in the global financial and foreign exchange markets, including volatility in the value of Pounds Sterling, Euros and other currencies. Interest income represents interest received on our cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and short-term deposits. Income Taxes We operate in several tax jurisdictions and are subject to taxes in each country or jurisdiction in which we conduct business. Earnings from our non-U.S. activities are subject to local country income tax and may be subject to U.S. income tax. To date, on a consolidated basis, we have incurred accumulated net losses and have not recorded any U.S. federal tax provisions. Because of our history of U.S. net operating losses, we have established a full valuation allowance against potential future benefits for deferred tax assets, including loss carryforwards, in that jurisdiction; however, we have recorded a net deferred tax asset of $0.3 million as of March 31, 2019 for foreign jurisdictions. Our income tax provision could be significantly impacted by estimates surrounding our uncertain tax positions and changes to our valuation allowance in future periods. We reevaluate the judgments surrounding our estimates and make adjustments as appropriate each reporting period. Our Israeli subsidiary currently qualifies as a Beneficiary Enterprise which, upon fulfillment of certain conditions, allows it to qualify for a reduced tax rate based on the beneficiary program guidelines. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examinations of our income tax returns by different tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. 23 Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 The following tables are a summary of our consolidated statements of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 in dollars and as a percentage of our total revenues. Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 (unaudited) (in thousands) Statement of Operations Data: Revenues: Perpetual licenses $ 15,521 $ 24,086 Subscriptions 7,005 1,071 Maintenance and services 33,834 28,371 Total revenues 56,360 53,528 Cost of revenues 8,326 6,442 Gross profit 48,034 47,086 Operating costs and expenses: Research and development 18,768 15,542 Sales and marketing 41,996 39,972 General and administrative 9,271 7,069 Total operating expenses 70,035 62,583 Operating loss (22,001 ) (15,497 ) Financial income (expenses), net (128 ) 978 Loss before income taxes (22,129 ) (14,519 ) Income taxes (510 ) (527 ) Net loss $ (22,639 ) $ (15,046 ) 24 Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 ( as a percentage of total revenues) Statement of Operations Data: Revenues: Perpetual licenses 27.5 % 45.0 % Subscriptions 12.5 2.0 Maintenance and services 60.0 53.0 Total revenues 100.0 100.0 Cost of revenues 14.8 12.0 Gross profit 85.2 88.0 Operating costs and expenses: Research and development 33.3 29.1 Sales and marketing 74.5 74.7 General and administrative 16.4 13.2 Total operating expenses 124.2 117.0 Operating loss (39.0 ) (29.0 ) Financial income (expenses), net (0.3 ) 1.9 Loss before income taxes (39.3 ) (27.1 ) Income taxes (0.9 ) (1.0 ) Net loss (40.2 )% (28.1 )% Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 % Change (unaudited) (in thousands) Revenues: Perpetual licenses $ 15,521 $ 24,086 (35.6 )% Subscriptions 7,005 1,071 554.1 % Maintenance and services 33,834 28,371 19.3 % Total revenues $ 56,360 $ 53,528 5.3 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 (as a percentage of total revenues) Revenues: Perpetual licenses 27.5 % 45.0 % Subscriptions 12.5 % 2.0 % Maintenance and services 60.0 % 53.0 % Total revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 25 Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 (as a percentage of total perpetual licenses and subscriptions revenues) Perpetual Licenses and Subscriptions Revenues: Perpetual licenses 68.9 % 95.7 % Subscriptions 31.1 % 4.3 % Total perpetual licenses and subscriptions revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % Our transition to a subscription-based model has yielded revenue headwinds for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , with an increase in our subscription revenues from $1.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 to $7.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 . The increase in subscription revenues was driven by our customers demand for a higher number of licenses than what we historically sold with perpetual license sales. For the three month ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 , we had 133 and 183 new customers, respectively. Our relatively lower number of new customers this quarter was a consequence of slower adoption of the subscription-based model transition in EMEA. ARR was $138.7 million and $103.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively, representing an increase of 35%. As of March 31, 2019 and 2018 , we had approximately 6,700 and approximately 6,000 customers, respectively. The increase in maintenance and services revenues was primarily due to an increase in the sale of maintenance agreements resulting from the growth of our installed customer base. In each of the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 , our maintenance renewal rate was over 90%. Of the license and first year maintenance and services revenues recognized in the three months ended March 31, 2019 , 44% was attributable to revenues from new customers, and 56% was attributable to revenues from existing customers. Of the license and first year maintenance and services revenues recognized in the three months ended March 31, 2018 , 51% was attributable to revenues from new customers, and 49% was attributable to revenues from existing customers. As of March 31, 2019 and 2018 , 73% and 70% of our customers, respectively, had purchased products in two or more families. As of March 31, 2019 and 2018 , 41% and 37% of our customers, respectively, purchased products in three or more families. Cost of Revenues and Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 % Change (unaudited) (in thousands) Cost of revenues $ 8,326 $ 6,442 29.2 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 (as a percentage of total revenues) Total gross margin 85.2 % 88.0 % The increase in cost of revenues was primarily related to an increase of $1.6 million in salaries and benefits and stock based compensation expense due to increased headcount for support personnel to support our increased revenues and high renewal rate and a $0.3 million increase in facilities and allocated overhead costs. Operating Costs and Expenses 26 Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 % Change (unaudited) (in thousands) Operating costs and expenses: Research and development $ 18,768 $ 15,542 20.8 % Sales and marketing 41,996 39,972 5.1 % General and administrative 9,271 7,069 31.2 % Total operating expenses $ 70,035 $ 62,583 11.9 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 (as a percentage of total revenues) Operating costs and expenses: Research and development 33.3 % 29.1 % Sales and marketing 74.5 % 74.7 % General and administrative 16.4 % 13.2 % Total operating expenses 124.2 % 117.0 % The increase in research and development expenses was primarily related to an increase of $2.8 million in salaries and benefits and stock based compensation expense resulting from increased headcount as part of our focus on enhancing and developing our existing and new products and a $0.4 million increase in facilities and allocated overhead costs. The increase in sales and marketing expenses was due to a $0.6 million increase in salaries and benefits and stock based compensation expense partially due to higher commissions on customer orders related to the incentivization of our sales force to sell subscription. Of the remainder, $1.1 million was related to facilities and allocated overhead costs. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily related to an increase of $2.1 million in salaries and benefits and stock based compensation expense due to increased headcount to support the overall growth of our business. Financial Income (Expenses), Net Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 % Change (unaudited) (in thousands) Financial income (expenses), net $ (128 ) $ 978 (113.1 )% 27 Financial expenses, net for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was primarily due to foreign currency losses. Financial income, net for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was primarily due to foreign currency gains. Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 % Change (unaudited) (in thousands) Income taxes $ (510 ) $ (527 ) 3.2 % Income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 were comprised primarily of foreign income taxes. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table shows our cash flows from operating activities, investing activities and financing activities for the stated periods: Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 (unaudited) (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 14,055 $ 17,444 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 5,933 (4,422 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (4,234 ) 1,066 Increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 15,754 $ 14,088 On March 31, 2019 , our cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and short-term deposits of $163.6 million were held for working capital purposes and were invested primarily in short-term deposits. We intend to increase our investment in capital expenditures in 2019 to support the growth in our business and operations mainly with leasehold improvements in our North Carolina and Israel offices. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, short-term deposits and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to fund our operations and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our rate and mix of revenue growth, the expansion of our sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts and expansion into new geographic locations, the timing of introductions of new software products and enhancements to existing software products, the continuing market acceptance of our software offerings and our use of cash to pay for acquisitions, if any. Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities is driven by sales of our products less costs and expenses, primarily payroll and related expenses, and adjusted for certain non-cash items, mainly depreciation and stock-based compensation, and changes in operating assets and liabilities. Changes in operating assets and liabilities are driven mainly by collection of accounts receivable from the sales of our software products and services and deferred revenues which represent unearned amounts billed to our channel partners, related to these sales. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , cash inflows from our operating activities were $14.1 million. We have observed two seasonal patterns that impact our net cash provided by operating activities. First, a majority of our sales are made during the last three weeks of the quarter. Second, the highest dollar amount of sales of our products and services occurs in the fourth quarter. Consequently, we end the fourth quarter with our highest accounts receivable balance of any quarter which in turn generates the greatest amount of collections in the following quarter. In addition, there is a negative sequential revenue growth in the first quarter which results in a relatively lower amount collected during the second quarter. These seasonal trends also impact our operating loss because the majority of our expenses are relatively fixed in the short term. For the three months 28 ended March 31, 2019 , sources of cash inflows were from changes in our working capital, including a $41.4 million decrease in accounts receivable. Our days sales outstanding (DSO) for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was 74. Additional sources of cash inflows were from a $0.2 million increase in other long term liabilities. This was partially offset by $7.3 million from our net loss excluding non-cash charges, a $7.4 million decrease in accrued expenses and other liabilities, a $5.5 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets (including deferred commissions), a $5.4 million decrease in deferred revenues and a $2.0 million decrease in trade payables. For the three months ended March 31, 2018 , cash inflows from our operating activities were $17.4 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2018 , sources of cash inflows were from changes in our working capital, including a $43.1 million decrease in accounts receivable. Our DSO for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was 62. Additional sources of cash inflows were from a $0.2 million increase in other long term liabilities. This was partially offset by our net loss excluding non-cash charges of $4.0 million. Our net loss was primarily driven by increased headcount of our sales and research and development personnel. Additional sources of cash outflows included an $8.2 million decrease in accrued expenses and other liabilities, a $8.2 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets (including deferred commissions) and a $5.4 million decrease in deferred revenues. Investing Activities Our investing activities consist primarily of capital expenditures to purchase property and equipment, leasehold improvements, sale and purchases of short-term deposits and changes in our marketable securities. In the future, we expect to continue to incur capital expenditures to support our expanding operations. During the three months ended March 31, 2019 , net cash provided by investing activities of $5.9 million was primarily attributable to a $11.0 million decrease in deposits and marketable securities partially offset by $5.1 million in capital expenditures to support our growth during the period including hardware, software, office equipment and leasehold improvements mainly in connection with new office space. During the three months ended March 31, 2018 , net cash used in investing activities of $4.4 million was primarily attributable to a $3.3 million increase in short-term deposits and long-term investments and $1.1 million in capital expenditures to support our growth during the period including hardware, software, office equipment and leasehold improvements mainly in connection with new office space. Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 , net cash used in financing activities of $4.2 million and net cash provided by financing activities of $1.1 million, respectively, was attributable to net proceeds (withholdings) from employee stock plans. Promissory Note On March 31, 2014, we entered into a promissory note and related security documents with Bank Leumi USA, which we have extended a number of times. We may borrow up to $7.0 million against certain of our accounts receivable outstanding amount, based on several conditions, at an annual interest rate of the Wall Street Journal Prime Rate plus 0.05%, provided that the annual interest rate applicable to advances will not be lower than 4.10%. As of March 31, 2019 , that rate amounted to 5.55%. This promissory note enables us, among other things, to engage in foreign currency hedging transactions with Bank Leumi USA to manage our exposure to foreign currency risk without restricted cash requirements. We may borrow under the promissory note until November 15, 2020 at which time the principal sum of each such loan, together with accrued and unpaid interest payable, will become due and payable. As of March 31, 2019 , we had no balance outstanding under the promissory note. As part of the transaction, we granted the lender a security interest in our personal property, excluding intellectual property and other intangible assets. The promissory note also contains customary events of default. Contractual Payment Obligations Our principal commitments primarily consist of obligations under leases for office space and motor vehicles. Aggregate minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable leases as of March 31, 2019 for the upcoming years were as follows: 29 Payments Due by Period 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Thereafter Total (in thousands) Operating lease obligations $ 3,114 $ 9,005 $ 7,860 $ 7,863 $ 7,673 $ 32,373 $ 67,888 We have obligations related to unrecognized tax benefit liabilities totaling $1.3 million and others related to severance pay, which have been excluded from the table above as we do not believe it is practicable to make reliable estimates of the periods in which payments for these obligations will be made. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2019 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The preparation of consolidated financial statements also requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. We believe that the accounting policies discussed below are critical to understanding our historical and future performance, as these policies relate to the more significant areas involving managements judgments and estimates. Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that we consider the most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations because they require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of the matters that are inherently uncertain. Except for the accounting policies for leases that were updated as a result of adopting ASU 2016-02, there have been no other changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates described in the 2018 Form 10-K that have had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and related notes. These changes are more fully described in notes 1 and 3 to our consolidated financial statements. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, which requires that expected credit losses relating to financial assets measured on an amortized cost basis and available for sale debt securities be recorded through an allowance for credit losses. ASU 2016-13 limits the amount of credit losses to be recognized for available for sale debt securities to the amount by which carrying value exceeds fair value and also requires the reversal of previously recognized credit losses if fair value increases. The new standard will be effective for interim and annual periods beginning after January 1, 2020, and early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the potential effect of this standard on our consolidated financial statements.