Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2021. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. The statements contained in this report that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Forward-looking statements are often identified by the use of words such as, but not limited to, anticipate, believe, can, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, seek, should, strategy, target, will, would and similar expressions or variations intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management based on information currently available to management. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other important factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified below and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors included under Part II, Item 1A below. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. The Digital Transformation COVID-19 accelerated the global digital transformation, which, as it continues to gain traction across almost all industries, changes the way we live and work, and impacts how data is stored, managed and accessed. This transformation has fueled, and we expect will continue to fuel, the secular trends that drive demand for our products, including the shift to the cloud; increase in cybercrime; and compliance with data-driven regulations. These trends impact the way organizations operate and have increased our long-term opportunity to help our customers protect their data, detect threats and achieve regulatory compliance. Companies around the world are focused on the elevated risks associated with having a highly distributed workforce collaborating on multiple platforms and we believe this trend will continue in the long-term and that we are well positioned to capitalize on the opportunity ahead. As companies of all sizes and industries are increasingly facing cyberattacks, they understand that a data-centric approach to security is critical and that the aforementioned elevated risks are here for the long-term. This has caused significant customer engagement which has converted into new business and expansion of existing business. Overview Varonis is a pioneer in data security and analytics, fighting a different battle than conventional cybersecurity companies. We are pioneers because more than 15 years ago we recognized that enterprise capacity to create and share data far exceeded its capacity to protect it. We believed that rapid data growth combined with increasing information dependence would change both the global economy and the risk profiles of corporations and governments. This conviction has only strengthened over time. Since our founding, our focus has been on using innovation to address the cyber-implications of these trends, creating software that provides new ways to track, alert and protect data wherever it is stored. In 2021, we introduced an update to our platform to help customers combat insider and collaboration risks in Microsoft 365. The update increases insight into organization-wide exposures related to Microsoft 365, adds new threat detection capabilities in Azure AD, adds support for additional NAS solutions and versions, and enhances search granularity for locating sensitive and personal data. In the second half of 2021, we also launched DatAdvantage Cloud, introducing licenses and support for additional cloud applications and infrastructure, including AWS, Box, GitHub, Google Drive, Jira, Okta, Salesforce, Slack and Zoom. DatAdvantage Cloud helps customers visualize and prioritize their biggest cloud risks, proactively reduce their blast radius, and conduct faster cross-cloud investigations. Additionally, we introduced Data Classification Cloud for Google Drive and Box to help automatically identify sensitive information in these mission-critical Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") applications. While we do not expect these products to meaningfully contribute to our 2022 financial performance, we 21 believe they offer significant potential in extending the Varonis Data Security Platform to cloud applications where our customers continue to move sensitive data. In the first quarter of 2022, we introduced more functionality to control sharing and collaboration in Microsoft 365, including new dashboards for visualizing data exposure from sharing links, expanded remediation capabilities for SharePoint Online and OneDrive sites, the ability to automatically label data in SharePoint and OneDrive and updated threat models to defend against the latest ransomware tactics. In addition, we continued to expand our capabilities in the cloud security space, adding SaaS Security Posture Management (SSPM) functionality to DatAdvantage Cloud to identify configuration risks and recommend appropriate remediation. This functionality expands DatAdvantage Clouds ability to find sensitive data across different SaaS applications, reveal who can access that data, and monitor for suspicious activity and threats. In order to allow our customers to better unleash the power of our platform through faster adoption of our integrated products, we strategically shifted to a subscription-based business model. The transition has positioned us well for the future, and, although revenues are still primarily front-end loaded, they are more predictable and recurring in nature. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, more than 99% of our license revenues are subscriptions and more than 99% of our total revenues are recurring. We currently have over thirty-five licenses. As of March 31, 2022, 74% of our customers with 500 employees or more had purchased four or more licenses, compared to 66% a year ago, and 42% purchased six or more licenses, compared to 32% a year ago. Our maintenance renewal rate continued to be over 90% for the quarter ended March 31, 2022. Our key strategies to ensure and maintain a high subscription and maintenance renewal rate include focusing on the quality and reliability of our customer service and support to ensure our customers receive value from our products and providing software upgrades and enhancements when and if they are available. We sell substantially all of our products and services to channel partners, including distributors and resellers, which sell to end-user customers, which we refer to in this report as our customers. We believe that our sales model, which combines the leverage of a channel sales model with our highly trained and professional sales force, has and will continue to play a major role in our ability to grow and to successfully deliver our unique value proposition for enterprise data. While our products serve customers of all sizes, across industries and across geographies, the marketing focus and majority of our sales focus is on targeting organizations with 1,000 users or more who can make larger initial purchases with us and, over time, have a greater potential lifetime value. Our customers span leading firms in the financial services, public, healthcare, industrial, insurance, energy and utilities, technology, consumer and retail, media and entertainment and education sectors. We believe our existing customer base serves as a strong source of incremental future revenues given our broad platform of products, their growing volumes and complexity of enterprise data and related security concerns. We will continue our focus on targeting organizations with 1,000 users or more who can make larger purchases with us initially and over time. We believe there is a significant long-term growth opportunity in both domestic and foreign markets, which could include any organization that uses file shares, SaaS applications, intranets and email for collaboration. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, approximately 72% of our revenues were derived from North America, while approximately 25% of our revenues were derived from EMEA and approximately 3% from Rest of World (ROW). Additionally, total revenues grew approximately 29% for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared with the three months ended March 31, 2021. We continue to expect sales growth in North America and international expansion to be key components of our long-term growth strategy. We continue to expand our domestic and international operations as part of our long-term growth strategy. While the expansion of our domestic operations is focused primarily on our underpenetrated territories, the expansion of our international operations depends in particular on our ability to hire, integrate and retain local sales personnel in these international markets, acquire new channel partners and implement an effective marketing strategy. Given the nominal amount of our ROW revenues, our ROW revenue growth rates have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future based on the timing of deal closures. In addition, the further expansion of our international operations will increase our sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses and will subject us to a variety of risks and challenges, including those related to economic and political conditions in each region, compliance with foreign laws and regulations, and compliance with domestic laws and regulations applicable to our international operations. Since inception, we have continued to scale our business and execute on strategic initiatives which we believe have positioned us for durable long-term growth. For the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, subscription revenues were $69.0 million and $45.1 million, respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 53%. For the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, our total revenues were $96.3 million and $74.8 million, respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 29%. For the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, we had operating losses of $48.1 million and $34.1 million and net losses of $48.8 million and $35.7 million, respectively. 22 Key Performance Indicators and Recent Business Highlights Annual Recurring Revenues Annual recurring revenues is a key performance indicator defined as the annualized value of active term-based subscription license contracts and maintenance contracts related to perpetual licenses in effect at the end of that period. Subscription license contracts and maintenance for perpetual license contracts are annualized by dividing the total contract value by the number of days in the term and multiplying the result by 365. As of March 31, 2022 and 2021, ARR was $404.5 million and $306.9 million, respectively, an increase of 32% period over period. The annualized value of contracts is a legal and contractual determination made by assessing the contractual terms with our customers. The annualized value of maintenance contracts is not determined by reference to historical revenues, deferred revenues or any other GAAP financial measure over any period. ARR is not a forecast of future revenues and can be impacted by contract start and end dates and renewal rates. We expect ARR to continue to increase in absolute dollars. Components of Operating Results Revenues Our revenues consist of licenses and maintenance and services revenues. Subscription Revenues. Subscription revenues are sold on-premises and are recognized at the point of time when the software license has been delivered and the benefit of the asset has transferred. Maintenance associated with subscription licenses is recognized ratably over the term of the agreement. In 2021, we launched our cloud offering that allows customers to use hosted software, and its revenue is recognized ratably over the associated contract period. As we only introduced these licenses in the second half of 2021, the contribution to total revenues has not yet been significant, nor is it expected to be significant in 2022. In addition, given the nominal amount of perpetual license revenues due to the successful transition to a subscription model, these revenues, which are generally recognized with the license fee portion of the arrangement upon delivery as the benefit of the asset has transferred, are included within the subscriptions line of the consolidated statements of operations. Due to the timing of renewals and subscription renewal rates, we could produce significant variation in the revenues we recognize in a given period. We are focused on acquiring new subscription customers and increasing subscription revenues from our existing customers. Maintenance and Services Revenues. Maintenance and services revenues consist of revenues from maintenance agreements of perpetual license sales and, to a lesser extent, professional services. Customers with maintenance agreements are entitled to receive support and unspecified upgrades and enhancements when and if they become available. We recognize the revenues associated with maintenance ratably over the associated contract period. We measure the maintenance renewal rate for our customers over a 12-month period, based on a dollar maintenance renewal rate for contracts expiring during that time period. Our maintenance renewal rate for each of the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 continued to be over 90%. We have seen and expect to continue to see insignificant perpetual license revenues in the future and, therefore, we expect maintenance and support of perpetual licenses to continue to decline despite the strong renewal rates. We also offer professional services, generally provided on a time and materials basis, focused on training our customers in the use of our products. We recognize the revenues associated with these professional services as we deliver the services, provide the training or when the service term has expired. Although professional services have always been a small percentage of our total revenues, we have recently seen, and expect to continue to see, that percentage decline as many of our newer licenses can provide remediation in more automated ways. As such, our overall maintenance and services revenues is also expected to continue to decline. The following table sets forth the percentage of our revenues that have been derived from licenses and maintenance and services revenues for the periods presented. 23 Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (as a percentage of total revenues) Revenues: Subscriptions 71.7 % 60.3 % Maintenance and services 28.3 39.7 Total revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % Our products are used by a wide range of enterprises, including Fortune 500 corporations and small and medium-sized businesses. Our customers span a broad array of industries and are located in over 85 countries. Cost of Revenues, Gross Profit and Gross Margin Our cost of revenues consists of cost of maintenance and services revenues. Cost of maintenance and services revenues consist primarily of salaries (including payroll tax expense related to stock-based compensation), employee benefits (including commissions and bonuses) and stock-based compensation for our maintenance and services employees; amortization of acquired intangible assets; travel expenses; and allocated overhead costs for facilities, IT and depreciation. We recognize expenses related to maintenance and services as they are incurred. We expect that our cost of maintenance and services revenues will increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest in our customer success and support teams and programs that play a critical role in our subscription-based business model and our overall renewals. Gross profit is total revenues less total cost of revenues. Gross margin is gross profit expressed as a percentage of total revenues. As the majority of our expenses are relatively fixed quarter over quarter and due to the seasonality of our business, the first quarter typically results in the lowest gross margin as our first quarter revenues have historically been the lowest for the year. Conversely, the fourth quarter typically results in the highest gross margin as our fourth quarter revenues have historically been the highest for the year. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses are classified into three categories: research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative. For each category, the largest component is personnel costs, which consists of salaries (including payroll tax expense related to stock-based compensation), employee benefits (including commissions and bonuses) and stock-based compensation. Operating expenses also include allocated overhead costs for facilities, IT and depreciation. Allocated costs for facilities primarily consist of rent and office maintenance. Operating expenses are generally recognized as incurred. As a company, we have always aimed to tie our level of investment in the business to the revenues we expect to achieve and we actively manage expenses across the business. We expect personnel costs to continue to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to grow our business. Research and Development . Research and development expenses primarily consist of personnel costs attributable to our research and development personnel, as well as allocated overhead costs. We expense research and development costs as incurred. We expect that our research and development expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars as we further strengthen our technology platform and invest in the development of both existing and new products through the hiring of talented and capable employees. Sales and Marketing . Sales and marketing expenses are the largest component of our operating expenses and consist primarily of personnel costs, as well as marketing and business development costs, travel expenses, training and education and allocated overhead costs. We expect that sales and marketing expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars as we plan to expand our sales and marketing efforts, both domestically and internationally. We also expect sales and marketing expenses to continue to be our largest category of operating expenses. General and Administrative . General and administrative expenses mostly consist of personnel and facility-related costs for our executive, finance, legal, human resources and administrative personnel. Other expenses are comprised of legal, accounting and other consultant fees and other corporate expenses and allocated overhead. We expect that general and administrative expenses will increase in absolute dollars as we expand our operations. 24 Financial Income (Expenses), Net Financial income (expenses), net consist primarily of foreign exchange gains or losses, amortization of debt discount and issuance costs, interest expense and interest income. Foreign exchange gains or losses relate to our business activities in foreign countries with different operational reporting currencies. As a result of our business activities in foreign countries, we expect that foreign exchange gains or losses will continue to occur due to fluctuations in exchange rates in the countries where we do business. Other factors such as economic instability could also contribute to volatility in the global financial and foreign exchange markets, including volatility in the value of Pounds Sterling, Euros and other currencies. Amortization of debt discount and issuance costs relate to the 2025 Notes we issued in May 2020 and the Credit Facility we entered into in August 2020. Interest expense consists of the contractual interest expenses associated with the 2025 Notes. Interest income represents interest received on our cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and deposits. Income Taxes We operate in several tax jurisdictions and are subject to taxes in each country or jurisdiction in which we conduct business. Earnings from our non-U.S. activities are subject to local country income tax and may be subject to U.S. income tax. To date, on a consolidated basis, we have incurred accumulated net losses and have not recorded any U.S. federal tax provision. Because of our history of U.S. net operating losses, we have established a full valuation allowance against potential future benefits for deferred tax assets, including loss carryforwards, in that jurisdiction. Our income tax provision could be significantly impacted by estimates surrounding our uncertain tax positions and changes to our valuation allowance in future periods. We reevaluate the judgments surrounding our estimates and make adjustments as appropriate each reporting period. In addition, we are subject to the regular examinations of our income tax returns by different tax authorities. For example, we are currently subject to tax audits in Israel and a state tax audit in the United States. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. 25 Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 The following tables are a summary of our consolidated statements of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 in dollars and as a percentage of our total revenues. Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (unaudited) (in thousands) Statement of Operations Data: Revenues: Subscriptions $ 68,985 $ 45,114 Maintenance and services 27,276 29,671 Total revenues 96,261 74,785 Cost of revenues 17,809 13,482 Gross profit 78,452 61,303 Operating expenses: Research and development 43,570 30,062 Sales and marketing 64,787 51,493 General and administrative 18,180 13,823 Total operating expenses 126,537 95,378 Operating loss (48,085) (34,075) Financial income (expenses), net 736 (1,022) Loss before income taxes (47,349) (35,097) Income taxes (1,414) (559) Net loss $ (48,763) $ (35,656) Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 ( as a percentage of total revenues) Statement of Operations Data: Revenues: Subscriptions 71.7 % 60.3 % Maintenance and services 28.3 39.7 Total revenues 100.0 100.0 Cost of revenues 18.5 18.0 Gross profit 81.5 82.0 Operating expenses: Research and development 45.3 40.2 Sales and marketing 67.3 68.9 General and administrative 18.9 18.5 Total operating expenses 131.5 127.6 Operating loss (50.0) (45.6) Financial income (expenses), net 0.8 (1.3) Loss before income taxes (49.2) (46.9) 26 Income taxes (1.5) (0.8) Net loss (50.7) % (47.7) % Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 % Change (unaudited) (in thousands) Revenues: Subscriptions $ 68,985 $ 45,114 52.9 % Maintenance and services 27,276 29,671 (8.1) % Total revenues $ 96,261 $ 74,785 28.7 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (as a percentage of total revenues) Revenues: Subscriptions 71.7 % 60.3 % Maintenance and services 28.3 % 39.7 % Total revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % Subscription revenues increased 53% from $45.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 to $69.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase in subscription revenues was driven by existing customers expanding their licenses, new customer acquisitions and our high subscription renewal rate. Total revenues increased approximately 29% for the three months ended March 31, 2022 as compared to 2021. ARR was $404.5 million and $306.9 million as of March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, representing an increase of 32%. The anticipated decrease in maintenance and services revenues was due to insignificant new perpetual licenses revenue despite our maintenance renewal rate continuing to be over 90% for each of the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, as well as, newer licenses providing remediation in more automated ways, requiring less professional services time. As a result, we expected, and continue to expect less associated maintenance and services revenues in the future. As of March 31, 2022, 74% of our customers with 500 employees or more had purchased four or more licenses, compared to 66% a year ago, and 42% purchased six or more licenses, compared to 32% a year ago. Cost of Revenues and Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 % Change (unaudited) (in thousands) Cost of revenues $ 17,809 $ 13,482 32.1 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (as a percentage of total revenues) Total gross margin 81.5 % 82.0 % 27 The increase in cost of revenues was primarily related to an increase of $3.7 million in salaries and benefits and stock-based compensation expense due to increased headcount for customer success and support personnel to ensure high customer satisfaction and maintain our strong renewal rates. The increase was also due to a $0.6 million increase in facilities and allocated overhead costs. Operating Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 % Change (unaudited) (in thousands) Operating expenses: Research and development $ 43,570 $ 30,062 44.9 % Sales and marketing 64,787 51,493 25.8 % General and administrative 18,180 13,823 31.5 % Total operating expenses $ 126,537 $ 95,378 32.7 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (as a percentage of total revenues) Operating expenses: Research and development 45.3 % 40.2 % Sales and marketing 67.3 % 68.9 % General and administrative 18.9 % 18.5 % Total operating expenses 131.5 % 127.6 % The increase in research and development expenses was primarily related to an increase of $11.9 million in salaries and benefits and stock-based compensation expense resulting from increased headcount as part of our focus on enhancing and developing our existing and new products. The increase was also due to a $1.4 million increase in facilities and allocated overhead costs. The increase in sales and marketing expenses was primarily related to a $11.3 million increase in salaries and benefits and stock-based compensation expense due to increased headcount to expand our sales force and commissions on increased customer orders. The increase was also due to a $1.2 million increase in facilities and allocated overhead costs. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily related to an increase of $3.2 million in salaries and benefits and stock-based compensation expense primarily due to increased headcount to support the overall growth of our business. The increase was also due to a $1.0 million increase in other expenses and facilities and allocated overhead costs. Financial Income (Expenses), Net Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 % Change (unaudited) (in thousands) Financial income (expenses), net $ 736 $ (1,022) 172.0 % 28 The increase in financial income (expenses), net was primarily due to a decrease in the amortization of debt discount costs on our convertible senior notes as a result of our adoption of ASU 2020-06 on January 1, 2022. Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 % Change (unaudited) (in thousands) Income taxes $ (1,414) $ (559) (153.0) % Income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, including the increase in income taxes, were comprised primarily of foreign income taxes. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table shows our cash flows from operating activities, investing activities and financing activities for the stated periods: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (unaudited) (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 24,542 $ 20,383 Net cash used in investing activities (31,870) (4,845) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (22,714) 503,976 Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (30,042) $ 519,514 On March 31, 2022, our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities of $804.1 million were held for working capital purposes and were invested primarily in money market funds. We have proactively taken steps to increase available cash, including, but not limited to, issuing a follow-on equity offering and the 2025 Notes, and we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to fund our operations and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth, timing of renewals and subscription renewal rates, the expansion of our sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts and expansion into new geographic locations, the timing of introductions of new software products and enhancements to existing software products, the continuing market acceptance of our software offerings and our use of cash to pay for acquisitions, if any. Operating Activities Our operating activities are driven by sales of our products less costs and expenses, primarily payroll and related expenses, and adjusted for certain non-cash items, mainly depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation, amortization of deferred commissions, noncash operating lease costs and amortization of debt discount and issuance costs, and changes in operating assets and liabilities. Changes in operating assets and liabilities are driven mainly by collection of accounts receivable from the sales of our software products and deferred revenues which represents unearned amounts billed to our channel partners, related to these sales. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, cash inflows from our operating activities were $24.5 million. We have observed two seasonal patterns that impact our net cash provided by operating activities. First, a majority of our sales are made during the last three weeks of the quarter. Second, the highest dollar amount of sales of our products and services occurs in the fourth quarter. Consequently, we end the fourth quarter with our highest accounts receivable balance of any quarter which in turn generates the greatest amount of collections in the following quarter. In addition, there is negative sequential revenue in the first quarter, which results in a relatively lower amount collected during the second quarter. These seasonal trends also impact our operating loss because the majority of our expenses are relatively fixed in the short-term. For the three months ended March 29 31, 2022, sources of cash inflows were from changes in our working capital, including a $53.6 million decrease in accounts receivable. Our days sales outstanding (DSO) for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was 63. Other sources of cash inflows were from a $0.4 million decrease in other long-term assets and a $0.1 million increase in other long-term liabilities. This was partially offset by $1.3 million from our net loss excluding non-cash charges, a $12.5 million decrease in accrued expenses and other liabilities, a $9.5 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets (including deferred commissions), a $5.6 million decrease in deferred revenues and a $0.6 million decrease in trade payables. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, cash inflows from our operating activities were $20.4 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, sources of cash inflows were from changes in our working capital, including a $42.9 million decrease in accounts receivable. Our DSO for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was 69. Additional sources of cash inflows were from a $0.9 million decrease in other long-term assets. This was partially offset by $3.8 million from our net loss excluding non-cash charges, a $7.6 million decrease in deferred revenues, a $5.5 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets (including deferred commissions), a $5.0 million decrease in accrued expenses and other liabilities, a $1.2 million decrease in other long-term liabilities and a $0.2 million decrease in trade payables. Investing Activities Our investing activities consist primarily of capital expenditures to purchase property and equipment, including leasehold improvements, purchase and sale of deposits and changes in our marketable securities. In the future, we expect to continue to incur capital expenditures to support our expanding operations. During the three months ended March 31, 2022, net cash used in investing activities of $31.9 million was primarily attributable to investments of $28.4 million in marketable securities and $3.5 million in capital expenditures to support our growth during the period including hardware, software, office equipment and leasehold improvements mainly in connection with office space. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, net cash used in investing activities of $4.8 million was primarily attributable to a $12.2 million increase in short-term deposits and $1.1 million in capital expenditures to support our growth during the period including hardware, software, office equipment and leasehold improvements mainly in connection with new office space. This was partially offset by a $6.0 million decrease in marketable securities and a $2.5 million decrease in long-term deposits. Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2022, net cash used in financing activities of $22.7 million was attributable to $28.8 million in taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards, partially offset by $6.1 million of proceeds from employee stock plans. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, net cash provided by financing activities of $504.0 million was attributable to $500.0 million of net proceeds from a public follow-on offering of equity and $4.7 million of proceeds from employee stock plans. This was partially offset by $0.7 million in taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards. Revolving Credit Facility On August 21, 2020, we entered into the Credit and Security Agreement, for a three-year secured revolving credit facility of $70.0 million. For information regarding the revolving credit facility, refer to Note 1 of our consolidated financial statements. As of March 31, 2022, we had no balance outstanding on the Credit Facility and we were in compliance with all financial covenants and non-financial covenants. Convertible Notes On May 11, 2020, we issued $253.0 million aggregate principal amount of the 2025 Notes. The net proceeds from the offering, after deducting initial purchaser discount and issuance costs, were approximately $245.2 million. In connection with the issuance of the 2025 Notes, we entered into the Capped Call Transactions. We used $29.3 million of the net proceeds from the 2025 Notes to purchase the Capped Call Transactions, as further discussed in Note 5 of our consolidated financial statements. 30 Contractual Payment Obligations Our principal commitments primarily consist of obligations under leases for office space and motor vehicles. Aggregate minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable leases as of March 31, 2022 for the upcoming years were as follows: Payments Due by Period 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 Thereafter Total (in thousands) Operating lease obligations $ 8,329 $ 11,527 $ 9,729 $ 9,767 $ 9,879 $ 34,296 $ 83,527 We have obligations related to unrecognized tax benefit liabilities totaling $10.3 million and others related to severance pay, which have been excluded from the table above as we do not believe it is practicable to make reliable estimates of the periods in which payments for these obligations will be made. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2022, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The preparation of consolidated financial statements also requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. We believe that the accounting policies discussed below are critical to understanding our historical and future performance, as these policies relate to the more significant areas involving managements judgments and estimates. Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that we consider the most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations because they require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of the matters that are inherently uncertain. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted We have reviewed recent accounting pronouncements and concluded that they are either not applicable to our business or that no material effect is expected on the consolidated financial statements as a result of their future adoption. 31