Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. In addition to historical condensed consolidated financial information, the following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors. We discuss factors that we believe could cause or contribute to these differences below and elsewhere in this report, including those set forth under Risk Factors and Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. Overview Veeva is a leading provider of cloud-based software solutions for the global life sciences industry. We were founded in 2007 on the premise that industry-specific business problems would best be addressed by tailored cloud solutions, an approach referred to as industry cloud. All of our solutions are designed from the ground up to address the unique business and regulatory requirements of the life sciences industry. We enable life sciences companies to realize the benefits of a cloud delivery model and modern mobile applications for their most critical business functions with solutions that meet their specialized functional and compliance needs. Veeva CRM was our first commercially available solution and has made up the vast majority of our revenue historically. For instance, in our fiscal year ended January 31, 2015, we derived approximately 89% of our subscription services revenues and 84% of our total revenues from our core sales automation solution, Veeva CRM, and the other multichannel CRM solutions that are complementary to Veeva CRM. The contribution of subscription services revenues and total revenues associated with Veeva Vault, Veeva Network and Veeva OpenData is expected to increase as a percentage of our subscription services and total revenues going forward. However, we have less experience selling Veeva Vault, Veeva Network, Veeva OpenData and our newer commercial applications that complement Veeva CRM. To the extent that these more recently introduced solutions do not achieve significant market acceptance, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. For the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014, our total revenues were $89.9 million and $66.7 million, respectively, representing period-over-period growth in total revenues of 35%. For the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014, our subscription services revenues were $68.9 million and $48.5 million, respectively, representing period-over-period growth in subscription services revenues of 42%. We expect the growth rate of our total revenues and subscription services revenues to decline in future periods. We generated net income of $13.0 million and $7.2 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance Investment in Growth. We have invested and intend to continue to invest aggressively in expanding the breadth and depth of our Industry Cloud for life sciences. We expect to invest in research and development to expand existing and build new solutions, sales and marketing to promote our solutions to new and existing customers and in existing and expanded geographies, professional services to ensure the success of our customers implementations of our solutions, and other operational and administrative functions to support our expected growth and the requirements associated with being a public company. We anticipate that our headcount will increase as a result of these investments. We expect our total operating expenses will increase over time, and, in some cases, have short-term negative impacts on our operating margin. Adoption of Our Solutions by Existing and New Customers. Most of our customers initially deploy our solutions to a limited number of users within a division or geography and may only initially deploy a limited set of our available solutions. Our future growth is dependent upon our existing customers continued success and renewals of subscriptions to our solutions, deployment of our solutions to additional users around the world, and the purchase of subscriptions to additional solutions. Our growth is also dependent on the adoption of our solutions by new customers. Subscription Services Revenue Retention Rate. A key factor to our success is the renewal and expansion of our existing subscription agreements with our customers. We calculate our annual subscription services revenue retention rate for a particular fiscal year by dividing (i) annualized subscription revenue as of the last day of that fiscal year from those customers that were also customers as of the last day of the prior fiscal year by (ii) the annualized subscription revenue from all customers as of the last day of the prior fiscal year. Annualized subscription revenue is calculated by multiplying the daily subscription revenue recognized on the last day of the fiscal year by 365. This calculation includes the impact on our revenues from customer non-renewals, deployments of additional users or decreases in users, deployments of additional solutions or discontinued use of solutions by our customers, and price changes for our solutions. Historically, the impact of price changes on our subscription services revenue retention rate has been minimal. For our fiscal years ended January 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, our subscription services revenue retention rate was 138%, 166% and 187%, respectively. 16 Mix of Subscription and Professional Services Revenues. We believe our investments in professional services have driven customer success and facilitated the further adoption of our solutions by our customers. During the initial period of deployment by a customer, we generally provide a greater amount of configuration, implementation and training than later in the deployment. At the same time, many of our customers have historically purchased subscriptions for only a limited set of their total potential users during their initial deployments. As a result of these factors, the proportion of total revenues for a customer associated with professional services is relatively high during the initial deployment period. Over time, as the need for professional services associated with user deployments decreases and the number of users often increases, we have observed and continue to expect the mix of total revenues to shift more toward subscription services revenues. As a result, we expect the proportion of our total revenues from subscription services to increase over time. Components of Results of Operations Revenues We derive our revenues primarily from subscription services fees and professional services fees. Subscription services revenues consist of fees from customers accessing our cloud-based software solutions. Professional services revenues consist primarily of fees from implementation services, configuration, data services, training and managed services related to our solutions. For the three months ended April 30, 2015, subscription services revenues constituted 77% of total revenues and professional services and other revenues constituted 23% of total revenues. New subscription orders typically have a one-year term and automatically renew unless notice of cancellation is provided in advance. If a customer adds users or solutions to an existing order, such additional orders will generally be coterminous with the initial order, and as a result, orders for additional users or solutions will commonly have an initial term of less than one year. Subscription orders are generally billed at the subscription commencement date in annual or quarterly increments. Because the term of orders for additional users or solutions is commonly less than one year and payment terms may be quarterly, the annualized value of the orders we enter into with our customers will not be completely reflected in deferred revenue at any single point in time. Accordingly, we do not believe that change in deferred revenue or calculated billings, a metric commonly cited by financial analysts that is the sum of the change in deferred revenue plus revenue, are accurate indicators of future revenues for any given period of time. Subscription services revenues are recognized ratably over the order term beginning when the solution has been provisioned to the customer. Our subscription services agreements are generally non-cancelable during the term, although customers typically have the right to terminate their agreements for cause in the event of material breach. Subscription services revenues are affected primarily by the number of customers, the number of users (or other subscription usage metric) at each customer that uses our solutions and the number of solutions subscribed to by each customer. We utilize our own professional services personnel and, in certain cases, third-party subcontractors to perform our professional services engagements with customers. Our professional services engagements are primarily billed on a time and materials basis and revenues are typically recognized as the services are rendered. Certain professional services revenues are based on fixed fee arrangements and revenues are recognized based on progress against input measures, such as hours incurred. In some cases, the terms of our time and materials and fixed fee arrangements may require that we defer the recognition of revenue until contractual conditions are met. In those circumstances, revenue recognition may be sporadic, based upon the achievement of such contractual conditions. Professional services revenues are affected primarily by our customers demands for implementation services, configuration, data services, training and managed services in connection with our solutions. Cost of Revenues Cost of subscription services revenues for all of our solutions consists of third-party expenses related to data centers, personnel related costs associated with hosting our subscription services and providing support, including our data stewards, operating lease expense associated with computer equipment and software and allocated overhead, amortization expense associated with capitalized internal-use software related to our subscription services and amortization expense associated with purchased intangibles related to our subscription services. Cost of subscription services revenues for Veeva CRM and certain of our related multichannel CRM solutions also include fees paid to salesforce.com, inc. for our use of the Salesforce1 Platform and the associated hosting infrastructure and data center operations that are provided by salesforce.com. We intend to continue to invest additional resources in our subscription services to broaden our product offerings and increase our delivery capacity. For example, we may open additional data centers, expand our current data centers in the future and continue to make investments in the availability and security of our solutions. The timing of when we incur these additional expenses will affect our cost of revenues in absolute dollars in the affected periods. Cost of professional services and other revenues consists primarily of employee-related expenses associated with providing these services, including salaries, benefits and stock-based compensation expense, the cost of third-party subcontractors, travel costs and allocated overhead. The cost of providing professional services is significantly higher as a percentage of the related revenues than for our subscription services due to the direct labor costs and costs of third-party subcontractors. 17 Operating Expenses We accumulate certain costs such as office rent, utilities and other facilities costs and allocate them across the various departments based on headcount. We refer to these costs as allocated overhead. Research and Development . Research and development expenses consist primarily of employee-related expenses, third-party consulting fees and allocated overhead, offset by capitalized internal-use software development costs. We continue to focus our research and development efforts on adding new features and applications, increasing the functionality and enhancing the ease of use of our cloud-based applications. Sales and Marketing . Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of employee-related expenses, sales commissions, marketing program costs, travel-related expenses and allocated overhead. Sales commissions and other program spend costs are expensed as incurred. General and Administrative . General and administrative expenses consist of employee-related expenses for our executive, finance and accounting, legal, employee success, management information systems personnel and other administrative employees. In addition, general and administrative expenses include third-party professional services costs, including legal costs and professional fees, other corporate expenses and allocated overhead. Other Expense, Net Other expense, net consists primarily of transaction gains or losses on foreign currency, net of interest income and amortization of investments. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists of federal and state income taxes in the United States and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions. See note 9 of the notes to our condensed consolidated financial statements. 18 Results of Operations The following tables set forth selected condensed consolidated statements of operations data and such data as a percentage of total revenues for each of the periods indicated: Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 (in thousands) Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income Data: Revenues: Subscription services $ 68,894 $ 48,521 Professional services and other 21,029 18,200 Total revenues 89,923 66,721 Cost of revenues (1) : Cost of subscription services 15,873 12,040 Cost of professional services and other 16,112 13,910 Total cost of revenues 31,985 25,950 Gross profit 57,938 40,771 Operating expenses (1) : Research and development 12,957 8,992 Sales and marketing 15,496 12,814 General and administrative 8,560 6,408 Total operating expenses 37,013 28,214 Operating income 20,925 12,557 Other income (expense), net 763 (30 ) Income before income taxes 21,688 12,527 Provision for income taxes 8,706 5,306 Net income $ 12,982 $ 7,221 (1) Includes stock-based compensation as follows: Cost of revenues: Cost of subscription services $ 111 $ 53 Cost of professional services and other 742 582 Research and development 1,383 887 Sales and marketing 1,120 776 General and administrative 1,443 958 Total stock-based compensation $ 4,799 $ 3,256 19 Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income Data: Revenues: Subscription services 76.6 % 72.7 % Professional services and other 23.4 27.3 Total revenues 100.0 100.0 Cost of revenues: Cost of subscription services 17.7 18.0 Cost of professional services and other 17.9 20.8 Total cost of revenues 35.6 38.8 Gross profit 64.4 61.2 Operating expenses: Research and development 14.4 13.5 Sales and marketing 17.2 19.2 General and administrative 9.5 9.6 Total operating expenses 41.1 42.3 Operating income 23.3 18.9 Other income (expense), net 0.8 Income before income taxes 24.1 18.9 Provision for income taxes 9.7 8.0 Net income 14.4 % 10.9 % Revenues Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 % Change (dollars in thousands) Revenues: Subscription services $ 68,894 $ 48,521 42 % Professional services and other 21,029 18,200 16 Total revenues $ 89,923 $ 66,721 35 Percentage of revenues: Subscription services 77 % 73 % Professional services and other 23 27 Total revenues 100 % 100 % Total revenues for the three months ended April 30, 2015 increased $23.2 million from the prior year period, of which $20.4 million was from growth in subscription services revenues. Three percent of the increase in subscription services revenues was attributable to orders from existing customers that were placed on or prior to April 30, 2014 and the renewal of such orders through April 30, 2015. Ninety-seven percent of the increase in subscription services revenues was attributable to new orders placed after April 30, 2014 to deploy our solutions to additional users within our existing customer base and to new users at new customers. New orders from existing customers consisted of expanded use of our solutions within a given customer and the addition of solutions not previously utilized by a given customer. Subscription services revenues from North America, as measured by the estimated location of the end users for subscription services, made up 53% of subscription services revenues in the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 56% of subscription services revenues in the three months ended April 30, 2014. This shift in geographic revenue mix was primarily due to the more rapid rate of revenue growth from deployments in Europe as compared to North America. Subscription services revenues were 77% of total revenues for the three months ended April 30, 2015, compared to 73% of total revenues for the three months ended April 30, 2014, reflecting the growth in our subscription services revenues as our customers expanded their use of our solutions across new divisions, new geographies, and new products. 20 Professional services and other revenues for the three months ended April 30, 2015 increased $2.8 million from the prior year period. The increase in professional services revenues was due primarily to new customers requesting implementation and deployment related professional services, and existing customers requesting professional services related to expanding deployments or the deployment of newly purchased solutions. Professional services revenues from North America, as measured by the estimated location of the user for which the services were performed, made up 64% of professional services revenues in the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 57% of professional services revenues in the three months ended April 30, 2014. This shift in geographic revenue mix was primarily driven by Vault deployments being concentrated in North America. Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 % Change (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenues: Cost of subscription services $ 15,873 $ 12,040 32 % Cost of professional services and other 16,112 13,910 16 Total cost of revenues $ 31,985 $ 25,950 23 Gross margin percentage: Subscription services 77 % 75 % Professional services and other 23 24 Total gross margin percentage 64 % 61 % Gross profit $ 57,938 $ 40,771 42 % Cost of revenues for the three months ended April 30, 2015 increased $6.0 million from the prior year period, of which $3.8 million was related to cost of subscription services. The increase in cost of subscription services was primarily due to an increase in the number of users of our subscription services, which drove an increase of $2.7 million in fees paid to salesforce.com. Additionally, employee compensation-related costs increased $0.7 million as a result of increased headcount. We expect cost of subscription services revenues to increase in absolute dollars in the near term, as we expect our subscription services revenues to increase from the renewal of existing orders and the execution of new orders. Cost of professional services and other revenues for the three months ended April 30, 2015 increased $2.2 million from the prior year period, primarily due to a $1.5 million increase in third-party subcontractor costs and a $0.9 million increase in employee compensation-related costs (which includes the impact of an increase of $0.2 million in stock-based compensation) resulting from increased headcount. We expect cost of professional services and other revenues to increase as we add personnel to our professional services organization worldwide. Gross profit as a percentage of total revenues for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 was 64% and 61%, respectively. The increase compared to the prior year period is largely due to an increase in the proportion of total revenues attributable to subscription services revenues as compared to professional services and other revenues, which have higher gross margins, and the continued growth of our Veeva Vault, Veeva Network, and our newer commercial applications that compliment Veeva CRM, all of which have a slightly higher gross margin profile relative to our core Veeva CRM product. Operating Expenses and Operating Margin Operating expenses include research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses. As we continue to invest in our growth through hiring additional headcount and expansion of our headquarters, we expect operating expenses to increase in absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue in the near term which may result in a slight decrease in our operating margin. 21 Research and Development Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 % Change (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 12,957 $ 8,992 44 % Percentage of total revenues 14 % 14 % Research and development expenses for the three months ended April 30, 2015 increased $4.0 million from the prior year period, primarily due to an increase of $3.2 million in employee compensation-related costs (which includes the impact of an increase of $0.5 million in stock-based compensation) resulting from increased headcount. The expansion of our headcount in this area is to support the increasing number of products that are under development across our solution offerings. We expect research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars in the near term, primarily due to higher headcount as we continue to add developers and invest in our solutions. Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 % Change (dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 15,496 $ 12,814 21 % Percentage of total revenues 17 % 19 % Sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended April 30, 2015 increased $2.7 million from the prior year period, primarily due to an increase of $2.2 million in employee compensation-related costs, which includes the impact of an increase of $0.3 million in stock-based compensation, resulting from increased headcount, and an increase of $0.6 million in sales commissions resulting from the sales growth for the same comparative periods. We expect sales and marketing expenses to continue to grow in absolute dollars in the near term, primarily driven by employee-related expenses as we increase our headcount to support our sales and marketing efforts associated with our newer solutions and our continued expansion of our international sales capacity across all our solutions. General and Administrative Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 % Change (dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 8,560 $ 6,408 34 % Percentage of total revenues 10 % 10 % General and administrative expenses for the three months ended April 30, 2015 increased $2.2 million from the prior year period, primarily due to increases of $1.2 million in employee compensation-related costs (which includes the impact of an increase of $0.5 million in stock-based compensation) resulting from increased headcount, and an increase of $0.3 million in third-party professional services costs. Much of this increased spending was incurred to address public company requirements, litigation related costs, and to provide increased administrative support to our foreign operations. We expect general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars in the near term, primarily due to higher headcount and additional expenses, such as professional services from third-party providers, including legal and accounting fees to address public company requirements, and to provide increased administrative support to our foreign operations. 22 Other Income (Expense), Net Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 % Change (dollars in thousands) Other income (expense), net $ 763 $ (30 ) NM Other income for the three months ended April 30, 2015 increased $0.8 million from the prior year period, primarily due to an increase of $0.6 million in interest income and an increase of $0.6 million in foreign currency gain, offset by an increase of $0.4 million in investment amortization. The higher interest income and investment amortization compared to the prior year period was primarily attributable to our higher cash equivalent and short-term investment balances. The foreign currency gain, resulting primarily from the periodic re-measurement of our foreign currency balances that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entities in which they are recorded, was driven by the increase in the value of the Euro to the U.S. Dollar in the last month of the fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2015. Our results of operations are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly changes in the Euro, British Pound Sterling, Japanese Yen and Chinese Yuan. Provision for Income Taxes Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 % Change (dollars in thousands) Income before income taxes $ 21,688 $ 12,527 73 % Provision for income taxes 8,706 5,306 64 Effective tax rate 40.1 % 42.4 % Our effective tax rate in all periods is the result of the mix of income earned in various tax jurisdictions that apply a broad range of income tax rates. The provision for income taxes differs from the tax computed at the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate due primarily to earnings considered as indefinitely reinvested in foreign operations, state taxes, the U.S. research and development tax credit, equity compensation and the U.S. domestic production activity deduction. Future effective tax rates could be adversely affected if earnings are lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory tax rates, by unfavorable changes in tax laws and regulations or by adverse rulings in tax related litigation. Differing tax rates in various jurisdictions could harm our results of operations and financial condition by increasing our overall tax rate. Our provision for income taxes for the three months ended April 30, 2015 increased $3.4 million from the prior year period primarily due to an increase in income before taxes. Our effective tax rate was 40% and 42% for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The 2% decrease in our effective tax rate relates to an increase in the Section 199 domestic production activities deduction for Fiscal 2016. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation S-K Item 10(e), Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in Commission Filings, defines and prescribes the conditions for use of non-GAAP financial information. Our measures of non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per share each meet the definition of a non-GAAP financial measure. Non-GAAP operating income and non-GAAP net income We use the non-GAAP measures of non-GAAP operating income and non-GAAP net income to provide an additional view of operational performance by excluding non-cash expenses that are not directly related to performance in any particular period. In addition to our GAAP measures we use these non-GAAP measures for budgeting and resource allocation purposes and in analyzing our financial results. We believe that these non-GAAP measures reflect our ongoing operating results and trends in a manner that allows for meaningful period-to-period comparisons and analysis of trends in our business, as they exclude certain expenses and benefits. These items are excluded because the decisions which gave rise to them are not made to increase revenue in a particular period, but are made for our long-term benefit over multiple periods and we are not able to change or affect these items in any particular period. We define non-GAAP net income as our total net income excluding the following components, which we believe are not reflective of our ongoing operational expenses. In each case, for the reasons set forth below, we believe that excluding the component 23 provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating the impact of certain non-cash items to our operating results and future prospects in the same manner as it does for us, in comparing financial results across accounting periods and to those of peer companies and to better understand the impact of these non-cash items on our gross margin and operating performance. Additionally, as significant, unusual or discrete events occur, the income statement impact thereof may be excluded in the period in which the events occur. Stock-based compensation expenses. We excluded stock-based compensation expenses from our non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses that we exclude from our internal management reporting processes. We also find it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses and our forecasting of future periods. Moreover, because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of award types that companies can use under FASB ASC Topic 718, we believe excluding stock-based compensation expenses allows investors to make meaningful comparisons between our recurring core business operating results and those of other companies. Amortization of purchased intangibles. We incur amortization expense for purchased intangible assets in connection with acquisitions of certain businesses and technologies. Amortization of intangible assets is a non-cash expense and is inconsistent in amount and frequency and is significantly affected by the timing and size of acquisitions. Because these costs have already been incurred and cannot be recovered, and are non-cash expenses, we exclude these expenses for internal management reporting purposes. We also find it useful to exclude these fixed charges when assessing the appropriate level of various operating expenses and in our forecasting of future periods. Investors should note that the use of intangible assets contributed to our revenues earned during the periods presented and will contribute to our future period revenues as well. Amortization of purchased intangible assets will recur in future periods. Capitalization of internal-use software development expenses and the subsequent amortization of the capitalized expenses. We capitalize certain costs incurred for the development of computer software for internal use and then amortize those costs over the estimated useful life. Capitalization and amortization of software development costs can vary significantly depending on the timing of products reaching technological feasibility and being made generally available. Our internal management reporting processes exclude both the capitalization of software (which would otherwise result in a reduction in net research and development operating expenses) and the amortization of capitalized software (which would otherwise result in an increase in cost of subscription revenues) when preparing budgets, plans and reviewing internal performance. Moreover, because of the variety of approaches taken and the subjective assumptions made by other companies in this area, we believe that excluding the effects of capitalized software costs allows investors to make more meaningful comparisons between our operating results and those of other companies. Income tax effects on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses. The income tax effects that are excluded from the non-GAAP measures relate to the tax impact on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses due to stock-based compensation, purchased intangibles and capitalized internal-use software for GAAP and non-GAAP measures. We define non-GAAP operating income as our operating income, as reported on our condensed consolidated statement of comprehensive income, excluding the portions of stock-based compensation, amortization of purchased intangibles, capitalization of expenses associated with development of internal-use software and the subsequent amortization of the capitalized expenses that are included in operating expenses. Non-GAAP net income per share Management uses the non-GAAP net income per share to provide an additional view of performance by excluding items that are not directly related to performance in any particular period in the earnings per share calculation. We define non-GAAP net income per share as our non-GAAP net income, which excludes the above components, which we believe are not reflective of our ongoing operational expenses, divided by diluted shares outstanding, as reported on our condensed consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Limitations on the use of Non-GAAP financial measures A limitation of our non-GAAP financial measures of non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per share is that they do not have uniform definitions. Our definitions will likely differ from the definitions used by other companies, including peer companies, and therefore comparability may be limited. Thus, our non-GAAP measures of non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per share should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or in isolation from, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Additionally, in the case of stock-based expense, if we did not pay a portion of compensation in the form of stock-based expense, the cash salary expense included in costs of revenues and operating expenses would be higher which would affect our cash position and our non-GAAP profitability. 24 The non-GAAP financial measures are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. In addition, they are subject to inherent limitations as they reflect the exercise of judgments by management about which items are adjusted to calculate our non-GAAP financial measures. Veeva compensates for these limitations by analyzing current and future results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis and also by providing GAAP measures in our public disclosures. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure and not to rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business. A reconciliation of GAAP to the non-GAAP financial measures has been provided in the tables below. We compensate for these limitations by reconciling non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP operating profit, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP earnings per share to the most comparable GAAP financial measure. We encourage investors and others to review our financial information in its entirety, not to rely on any single financial measure and to view our non-GAAP financial measures in conjunction with the most comparable GAAP financial measures. The following table reconciles the specific items excluded from GAAP net income in the calculation of non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per share for the periods shown below: Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 Operating income on a GAAP basis $ 20,925 $ 12,557 Stock-based compensation expense 4,799 3,256 Amortization of purchased intangibles 413 413 Capitalization of internal-use software (22 ) (220 ) Amortization of internal-use software 189 199 Operating income on a non-GAAP basis $ 26,304 $ 16,205 Net income on a GAAP basis $ 12,982 $ 7,221 Stock-based compensation expense 4,799 3,256 Amortization of purchased intangibles 413 413 Capitalization of internal-use software (22 ) (220 ) Amortization of internal-use software 189 199 Income tax effect on non-GAAP adjustments (1,213 ) (491 ) Net income on a non-GAAP basis $ 17,148 $ 10,378 Net income allocated to participating securities on a GAAP basis $ (18 ) $ (93 ) Net income allocated to participating securities from non-GAAP adjustments (6 ) (40 ) Net income allocated to participating securities on a non-GAAP basis (24 ) (133 ) Net income attributable to common stockholders on a non-GAAP basis $ 17,124 $ 10,245 Diluted net income per share on a GAAP basis $ 0.09 $ 0.05 Stock-based compensation expense 0.04 0.02 Amortization of purchased intangibles Capitalization of internal-use software Amortization of internal-use software Income tax effect on non-GAAP adjustments (0.01 ) Diluted net income per share on a non-GAAP basis $ 0.12 $ 0.07 25 Liquidity and Capital Resources Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 41,791 $ 18,130 Net cash used in investing activities (67,811 ) (131,771 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 4,335 40,058 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (7 ) (36 ) Net change in cash and cash equivalents $ (21,692 ) $ (73,619 ) Our principal sources of liquidity continue to be comprised of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, as well as cash flows generated from our operations. As of April 30, 2015, our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments totaled $428.5 million, of which $15.9 million represented cash and cash equivalents held outside of the United States. As of April 30, 2014, our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments totaled $345.5 million, of which $10.3 million represented cash and cash equivalents held outside of the United States. Non-U.S. cash and cash equivalents have been earmarked for indefinite reinvestment in our operations outside the United States and, therefore, no U.S. current or deferred taxes have been accrued related to these balances. We believe our U.S. sources of cash and liquidity are sufficient to meet our business needs in the United States and do not expect that we will need to repatriate the funds we have designated as indefinitely reinvested outside the United States. Under current tax laws, should our plans change and we were to choose to repatriate some or all of the funds we have designated as indefinitely reinvested outside the United States, such amounts would be subject to U.S. income taxes and applicable non-U.S. income and withholding taxes. We have financed our operations primarily through cash generated from operations. We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs over at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including our growth rate, subscription renewal activity, the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the ongoing investments in data centers, the introduction of new and enhanced solutions and the continuing market acceptance of our solutions. We may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services and technologies and intellectual property rights. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Our largest source of operating cash inflows is cash collections from our customers for subscription services. We also generate significant cash flows from our professional services arrangements. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for employee-related expenditures, fees to salesforce.com, third-party professional services costs and leased facilities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $41.8 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015. Our cash provided by operating activities during the three months ended April 30, 2015 primarily reflected our net income of $13.0 million, adjustments for non-cash charges of $6.6 million, and net changes in our operating assets and liabilities of $22.2 million. Non-cash charges included $4.8 million of stock-based compensation expense, $1.0 million of depreciation and amortization expense, and $0.8 million of other. The net changes in operating assets and liabilities included a $23.5 million decrease in accounts receivable related to the timing of billings and collections and a $2.9 million increase in our net income tax obligations related to the timing of tax payments. These sources of cash were partially offset by a $2.2 million decrease in deferred revenue resulting primarily from the timing of annual renewal billings and a $1.3 million decrease in accrued expenses and other current liabilities. Cash Flows from Investing Activities The cash flows from investing activities primarily relate to cash used to purchase marketable securities, net of maturities and for strategic acquisitions. We also use cash to invest in capital assets to support our growth, including the build-out of our new corporate headquarters located in Pleasanton, California. Net cash used in investing activities was $67.8 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015 resulted primarily from $53.1 million in net purchases of marketable securities, $10.0 million in cash used for the acquisition of the Qforma CrowdLink business and $4.7 million in cash used for purchases of property and equipment, which primarily includes the build-out of our new corporate headquarters. 26 Cash Flows from Financing Activities The cash flows from financing activities relate to excess tax benefits from our stock plans and stock option exercises. Net cash provided by financing activities was $4.3 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015 resulting from $3.2 million in excess tax benefits from our employee stock plans, and $1.2 million from employees participating in the employee stock plans. Commitments Our principal commitments primarily consist of obligations for minimum payment commitments to salesforce.com and leases for office space. On March 3, 2014, we amended our agreement with salesforce.com. The agreement, as amended, requires that we meet minimum order commitments of $500 million over the term of the agreement, which ends on September 1, 2025, including true-up payments if the orders we place with salesforce.com have not equaled or exceeded the following aggregate amounts within the timeframes indicated: (i) $250 million for the period from March 1, 2014 to September 1, 2020 and (ii) the full amount of $500 million by September 1, 2025. As of April 30, 2015, the future non-cancelable minimum payments under these commitments were as follows: Payments Due by Period Total Less than 1 Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years More than 5 Years (in thousands) Purchase commitments $ 450,620 $ 4,183 $ $ $ 446,437 Operating lease obligations 9,399 2,339 3,951 2,188 921 Total $ 460,019 $ 6,522 $ 3,951 $ 2,188 $ 447,358 The amounts in the table above are associated with agreements that are enforceable and legally binding, which specify significant terms including payment terms, related services and the approximate timing of the transaction. Obligations under agreements that we can cancel without a significant penalty are not included in the table. We anticipate leasing additional office space in various locations around the world to support our growth. In addition, our existing lease agreements often provide us with an option to renew. We expect our future operating lease obligations will increase as we expand our operations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any relationships with unconsolidated organizations or financial partnerships, such as structured finance or special purpose entities that would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes.