Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and elsewhere in this reportthat may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statements in this report are made only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, we disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements publicly, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. As used in this report, the terms Veeva, Registrant, the Company, we, us, and our mean Veeva Systems Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 1 Table of Contents PART I. ITEM 1. BUSINESS. Overview Veeva is the leading provider of industry cloud solutions for the global life sciences industry. Our offerings span cloud software, data, and business consulting and are designed to meet the unique needs of our customers and their most strategic business functionsfrom research and development (R&D) through commercialization. Our solutions help life sciences companies develop and bring products to market faster and more efficiently, market and sell more effectively, and maintain compliance with government regulations. Customer success is one of our core values, and our focus on it has allowed us to deepen and expand our strategic relationships with customers over time. Because of our industry focus, we have a unique, in-depth perspective into the needs and best practices of life sciences companies and clinical research sites. This allows us to develop targeted solutions, quickly adapt to regulatory changes, and incorporate highly relevant enhancements into our existing solutions at a rapid pace. Our goal is to become the most strategic software, data, and business consulting partner to the life sciences industry, supporting the industrys most critical drug development, quality and manufacturing, and commercialization functions. Our commercial solutions help life sciences companies achieve better, more intelligent engagement with healthcare professionals and healthcare organizations across multiple communication channels, and plan and execute more effective media and marketing campaigns. Our R&D solutions for the clinical, regulatory, quality, and safety functions help life sciences companies streamline their end-to-end product development and quality and manufacturing processes to increase operational efficiency and maintain regulatory compliance throughout the product life cycle. Our solutions for clinical research sites enable regulatory documents and trial information to be managed in a modern cloud solution that is intended to accelerate the clinical research process for the life sciences industry overall. On February 1, 2021, after approval by our stockholders, we became a Delaware public benefit corporation (PBC). A PBC is a for-profit company operating under subchapter XV of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (i) that has adopted a public benefit purpose intended to provide benefits beyond just stockholder financial returns, and (ii) whose directors have a fiduciary duty to balance the financial interests of stockholders, the best interests of other stakeholders materially affected by the company's conduct (which we believe includes customers, employees, partners, and the communities in which we operate), and the pursuit of the company's public benefit purpose. Our public benefit purpose, as reflected in our certificate of incorporation, is to provide products and services that are intended to help make the industries we serve more productive, and to create high-quality employment opportunities in the communities in which we operate. We believe that operating as a PBC reflects our core valuesdo the right thing, customer success, employee success, and speedand helps us maintain alignment with the principal industry we serve, life sciences, and its broad goal to improve health and extend lives. Our Industry Cloud Solutions for Life Sciences Our industry cloud solutions for the life sciences industry are grouped into four major product categoriesVeeva Development Cloud, Veeva Quality Cloud, Veeva Commercial Cloud, and Veeva Data Cloudand are designed to address pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and medical devices and diagnostics (MedTech) companies most pressing strategic needs in their commercial and R&D operations. For financial reporting purposes, revenues associated with our Veeva Commercial Cloud and Veeva Data Cloud solutions are classified as Commercial Solutions revenues, and revenues associated with our Veeva Development Cloud and Veeva Quality Cloud solutions are classified as R&D Solutions revenues. Veeva Development Cloud includes application suites for the clinical, regulatory, and safety functions of life sciences companies, all built on our proprietary Veeva Vaultplatform. Veeva Vaults unique ability to handle content and data allows us to build content and data-centric applications to help customers streamline end-to-end business processes and eliminate manual processes and siloed systems. Veeva Vault can be deployed one application at a time or as an integrated solution with multiple applications that enable customers to unify and manage important documents and related data in a single global system: Veeva Clinical Platformadvances clinical trial execution by providing a complete and connected technology ecosystem. Our clinical platform is designed to enable seamless execution and flow of data between clinical trial stakeholdersincluding patients, research sites, contract research organizations Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 2 Table of Contents (CROs), and trial sponsorsfor faster, more efficient trials that achieve higher data accuracy and increased patient diversity. Our suite of applications for clinical research sites and patient engagement facilitates clinical trial participation for patients and streamlines study execution for research sites and trial sponsors. These offerings include applications that enable sites to manage study documents electronically and securely exchange information with sponsors and CROs. VeevaClinical Data Management helps sponsors and CROs design and run trials with tools to speed the build process and eliminate manual steps. This includes Veeva EDC for electronic data capture; Veeva CDB for aggregating, cleaning, and transforming clinical data; and solutions for electronic processing of consents and assessments of clinical trial participants. Veeva Clinical OperationsSuite offers applications such as Veeva eTMF, an electronic trial master file application, Veeva CTMS for clinical trial management, solutions for randomization and trial supply management, and solutions for automating the flow of clinical trial information between sponsors, CROs, and clinical research sites for better collaboration and faster clinical trials. Veeva Safety is a suite of applications that unifies systems and processes to enable proactive patient safety. These offerings include applications that manage drug safety content as well as the intake, processing, and submission of adverse event data. Veeva RIM is a suite of applications that provides fully integrated regulatory information management capabilities on a single cloud platform. These offerings include applications that enable life sciences companies to manage, track, and report product and registration information and to facilitate content planning, authoring, publishing, and archiving of regulatory submissions to healthcare authorities. Veeva Quality Cloud unifies quality applications, processes, and partners across content management, training, quality management, quality assurance, and quality control lab solutions on the Veeva Vault platform. These applications help our customers in the life sciences and consumer products industries to develop and manufacture products more efficiently. Veeva Quality Cloud includes Veeva QMS to manage integrated quality processes and Veeva Quality Docs to manage regulated quality content throughout its lifecycle, as well as lab solutions, which enable quality control to optimize batch release testing, stability study management, and environmental monitoring, and training solutions, which increase quality training efficiency and compliance. Veeva Commercial Cloud is a product category comprised of software and analytics solutions built specifically for life sciences companies to more efficiently and effectively commercialize their products. Veeva Commercial Cloud includes solutions for the sales, marketing, and medical affairs functions of a life sciences company: Veeva Vault CRMSuite is our next generation CRM solution built on our proprietary Veeva Vault platform. Vault CRM brings together sales, marketing, medical, and service teams at pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies in a single Vault database, with shared data and content, to manage, track, and optimize engagement with healthcare professionals. Vault CRM includes the full functionality of our legacy product, Veeva CRM, with additional applications like Campaign Manager for coordination across engagement channels and Service Center for customer support. Veeva CRM and some of its related applications are built on a platform provided by Salesforce, Inc. and will be supported until September 1, 2030. Both Vault CRM and Veeva CRM include multichannel CRM applications that can enhance and extend our core CRM and Medical CRM products, providing customers with an end-to-end solution across all key channels, including face-to-face, email, and virtual engagement, live and virtual enterprise events, and field collaboration. Veeva Medical provides a single, validated source of medical content across multiple channels and geographies with capabilities for medical affairs teams to centralize medical inquiries and content. Veeva PromoMats is an end-to-end content and digital asset management (DAM) solution through which life sciences companies can collaborate, review, distribute, and update commercial content and manage assets. Veeva Crossix provides pharmaceutical brands a best-in-class analytics platform to maximize media investments and drive greater marketing effectiveness. Veeva Data Cloudis a modern data platform comprised of connected reference data, deep data, and transaction data. The platform is designed to bring greater efficiency and precision across clinical and commercial operations of a life sciences company: Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 3 Table of Contents Veeva OpenData is customer reference data. This includes demographic information, license information and status, specialty information, affiliations, and other key data about healthcare professionals and organizations that is crucial to customer engagement and compliance. Veeva Link applications are built on a modern data platform that combines intelligent software automation with human curation to provide deep data across a growing number of areas, including key people, key accounts, publications, conferences, medical insights, and digital engagement. Veeva Compass is a suite of de-identified U.S. longitudinal patient, projected prescriber, and national data designed for a wide range of commercial use cases, including business planning, patient finding, patient journey analytics, segmentation and targeting, forecasting, and incentive compensation. Veeva CRM Pulse is a data subscription that provides access and multichannel engagement metrics about healthcare professionals that are used by our life sciences customers for segmentation, targeting, and engagement planning. Professional Services and Support We offer professional services to help customers maximize the value of our solutions. Our service teams possess industry expertise, project management capabilities, and deep technical acumen that we believe our customers highly value. Our professional services teams work with our systems integrator partners to deliver projects. We offer the following professional services: implementation and deployment planning and project management; requirements analysis, solution design and configuration; systems environment management and deployment services; services focused on advancing or transforming business and operating processes related to Veeva solutions; technical consulting services related to data migration and systems integrations; training on our solutions; and ongoing managed services, such as outsourced systems administration. We organize our professional services teams by specific expertise so that they can provide advice and support for best industry practices in the research and development and commercial departments of our customers. Veeva Services Partners include global systems integrators and market specialty firms that help customers maximize the value of Veeva solutions. Partner services include program management, support, training, customization, and integration. Veeva Business Consulting We offer Veeva Business Consulting services through dedicated teams that are distinct from our professional services and support organization. Veeva Business Consulting provides strategic consulting services and solutions that are often enabled by our unique industry-wide perspective and proprietary data. Commercial Business Consulting typically focuses on a particular customer success initiative, commercial strategy, or business process change like digital engagement, commercial content management, field optimization, and commercial insights and analytics. R&D Business Consulting enables continuous and sustainable innovation across the drug development value chain, including process efficiency, time-to-market acceleration, and optimized operating model and governance. Our Customers As of January 31, 2025, we served 1,477 customers. For an explanation of how we define current customers, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsComponents of Results of Operations. We deliver solutions to companies throughout the life sciences industry, including pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and medical device companies, contract sales organizations, and contract research organizations. Our life sciences customers range from the largest global pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies such as Bayer AG, Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, Eli Lilly and Company, Gilead Sciences, Inc., Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 4 Table of Contents and Novartis Pharma AG, to emerging growth pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including Alkermes Inc., Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Inc., bluebird bio, Inc., and Idorsia Pharmaceuticals Ltd. We also deliver solutions to companies in the consumer products industries. Our Human Capital Resources As of January 31, 2025, we had 7,291 employees worldwide, up by 119 from the previous year. Our employees in the United States are not represented by a labor union; however, in certain foreign locations, local workers councils represent our employees. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and we consider our relations with our employees to be very good. We use a combination of base salary and equity to compensate our employees. We also offer a range of benefits to our employees, including comprehensive healthcare and other wellness programs. We believe our compensation and benefits programs are competitive. We do not require any of our employees anywhere in the world to enter into non-compete agreements. While we experience intense competition for talent, we believe we have been effective at attracting and retaining talented employees. Research and Development Our R&D organization is responsible for the design, development, and testing of our solutions and applications. Based on customer feedback and needs, we focus our efforts on developing new solutions, functionality, applications, and core technologies and further enhancing the usability, functionality, reliability, performance, and flexibility of existing solutions and applications. Sales and Marketing We sell our solutions through our direct sales organization. In large life sciences companies, the R&D and commercial business functions commonly have separate technology and business decision makers. Accordingly, we market and sell our solutions to align with the distinct characteristics of those decision makers. We have distinct R&D and commercial sales teams, which we further segment to focus on selling to large global life sciences companies and smaller life sciences companies. We also have product specific and industry specific sales teams for certain of our products. Technology Infrastructure and Operations Our products are hosted in data centers located in the United States, the European Union, Japan, South Korea, Singapore, Australia, and Brazil. Our products used only within China are hosted in data centers located in China. We utilize third parties to provide our computing infrastructure and manage the infrastructure on which our solutions operate. For example, for Veeva CRM and certain of our multichannel CRM applications, we currently utilize the hosting infrastructure provided by Salesforce, Inc. For our Veeva Vault applications, including Vault CRM, and certain other Veeva Commercial Cloud applications, we utilize Amazon Web Services. Our infrastructure providers employ advanced measures to ensure physical integrity and security, including redundant power and cooling systems, fire and flood prevention mechanisms, continual security coverage, biometric readers at entry points and anonymous exteriors. We also implement various disaster recovery measures such that data loss would be minimized in the event of a single data center disaster. We architect our solutions using redundant configurations to minimize service interruptions. We continually monitor our solutions for any sign of failure or pending failure, and we take preemptive action to attempt to minimize or prevent downtime. Our technology is generally based on multitenant architectures that apply common, consistent management practices for all customers using our solutions. We enable multiple customers to share the same version of our solutions while securely partitioning their respective data. Certain of our other applications rely on technology platforms provided by third parties. For example, our commercial data warehouse application utilizes Amazon Redshift and our digital engagement application utilizes Zoom. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 5 Table of Contents Quality and Compliance Program Veeva maintains a quality management system certified to ISO9001 to ensure process controls conform to established industry standards for our cloud software offerings that are subject to good practice regulations for the life sciences industry. Robust audit trail tracking, compliant electronic signature capture, data encryption, and secure access controls are required for these software offerings, and they must be thoroughly tested for compliance with applicable life sciences industry regulations, which include: Regulation Regulation Description 21 CFR 820.75 U.S. FDA device regulation on system validation 21 CFR 211.68 U.S. FDA pharma GMP regulation on system validation 21 CFR 11 U.S. FDA requirement for maintenance of electronic records EU Annex 11 EU Good Manufacturing Processes (GMP) requirement for maintenance of electronic records 21 CFR 203 Drug sample tracking as required by the Prescription Drug Marketing Act PFSB Notification, No. 0401022 (Japan) Use of Electromagnetic Records and Electronic Signatures for Approval of, or License for, Drugs OECD No. 17 Application of Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) Principles to Computerised Systems ICH E6(R3) Good Clinical Practice (GCP) Validation Principles Privacy Program Veeva maintains a data privacy program aligned to applicable laws such as the European Unions General Data Protection Regulation (EU GDPR), the United Kingdoms General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR), the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), and the U.S. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA). We have a Chief Privacy Officer who collaborates with our Chief Information Security Officer and business and product leaders throughout our organization. Our program focuses on the implementation of policies, procedures, and agreements to facilitate compliance with applicable data privacy laws and regulations as well as data privacy requirements of customers and partners; the creation and maintenance of privacy documentation to demonstrate compliance with applicable data privacy laws and regulations, including legal transfer mechanisms; the processes by which we obtain personal information through lawful and transparent means; the processes by which we process personal information; the processes by which we notify customers and data subjects in a timely manner in the event of a data breach, as required by contract or law; and the training of employees and contractors engaged in the processing of personal information. For more information about our privacy practices, please visit veeva.com/privacy. Competition The markets for our solutions are global, rapidly evolving, highly competitive, and subject to changing regulations, advancing technology, and shifting customer needs. In new sales cycles, we generally compete with other cloud-based solutions from providers that make applications geared toward the life sciences industry. Our CRM solutions primarily compete with Salesforce, Inc., which is developing a life sciences industry-specific CRM application and has entered into a partnership with IQVIA Holdings, which also offers various data products and other applications that compete with our products. Our Veeva Data Cloud products as well as Veeva Crossix compete with IQVIA, Ipsos Group S.A., Definitive Health Corp., and smaller data and data analytics providers. No single vendor offers products that compete with all of our Veeva Development Cloud or Quality Cloud applications, but IQVIA, Dassault Systmes, OpenText Corporation, Oracle Corporation, Honeywell International Inc., and other smaller application providers offer applications that compete with certain of our Veeva Development Cloud and Quality Cloud applications. Our Commercial Cloud, Development Cloud, and Quality Cloud application suites also compete to replace client server-based legacy solutions offered by companies such as Oracle, Microsoft Corporation, and other smaller application providers. Our customers may also choose to use cloud-based applications or platforms that are not life sciences specificsuch as Salesforce, Inc., Box, Inc., Amazon Web Services, or Microsoftfor certain of the functions our applications provide. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 6 Table of Contents We sell certain of our Development Cloud and Quality Cloud applications to companies outside the life sciences industry. In this segment of our business, we compete with solutions such as those offered by OpenText, Microsoft, Honeywell, EtQ Management Consultants, LLC, Oracle, and Box, and custom-built software developed by third-party vendors or in-house by our potential customers. Our business consulting and professional services offerings compete with a range of professional services firms. Some of our actual and potential competitors have advantages over us, such as longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing or other resources, stronger brand and business recognition, larger intellectual property portfolios, and agreements with a broader set of system integrators and other partners. We expect competition to intensify in the future, and we may face competition from new market entrants as well. We believe the principal competitive factors in our market include the following: level of customer satisfaction; regulatory compliance verification and functionality; domain expertise with respect to life sciences; ease of deployment and use of solutions and applications; breadth and depth of solution and application functionality; brand awareness and reputation; modern and adaptive technology platform; capability for customization, configurability, integration, security, scalability and reliability of applications; total cost of ownership; ability to innovate and respond to customer needs rapidly; size of customer base and level of user adoption; ability to secure the rights to load and process third party proprietary data licensed by customers; and ability to integrate with legacy enterprise infrastructures and third-party applications. We believe that we generally compete favorably on the basis of these factors. Intellectual Property We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, copyrights and trademarks, as well as contractual protections, to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. We have developed a process for seeking patent protection for our technology innovations. The table below provides a summary of our issued patents and pending patent applications as of January 31, 2025: Issued U.S. patents (expiring between May 2027 and May 2044) 83 Issued international patents (expiring between April 2025 and June 2037) 13 U.S. and international pending patent applications 121 Our patents and patent applications cover technology within our Veeva Development Cloud, Veeva Commercial Cloud, Veeva Data Cloud, and Veeva Quality Cloud product families. We plan to continue expanding our patent portfolio. We require our employees, consultants, and other third parties to enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements, and we control access to software, documentation, and other proprietary information. Although we rely on our intellectual property rights, as well as contractual protections to establish and protect our proprietary rights, we believe that factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, creation of new features and functionality and frequent enhancements to our applications are essential to establishing and maintaining our technology leadership position as a provider of technology solutions to the life sciences industry. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary technology and our intellectual property rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or obtain and use our technology to develop applications with the same functionality as our Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 7 Table of Contents application. Policing unauthorized use of our technology and intellectual property rights is difficult, and protection of our rights through civil enforcement mechanisms may be expensive and time consuming, and may result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. Companies in our industry, as well as non-practicing entities, often own a number of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets, and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement, misappropriation, or other violations of intellectual property or other rights. We are currently engaged in legal proceedings with competitors in which the competitors are asserting trade secret misappropriation and other claims, as well as discussions with a non-practicing entity relating to alleged infringement of its patents. We may face new allegations in the future that we have infringed the patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, and other intellectual property rights of others. We expect that we and others in our industry will continue to be subject to third-party infringement claims by competitors as the functionality of applications in different industry segments overlaps, and by non-practicing entities. Any of these third parties might make a claim of infringement against us at any time. For examples, see the description of our current litigations in note 14 of the notes to our consolidated financial statements. Corporate Information Our website address is http://www.veeva.com. Information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K, and you should not consider information contained on our website to be part of this Form 10-K or in deciding whether to purchase shares of our common stock. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on the Investors portion of our website at http://ir.veeva.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 8 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below and in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, together with all of the other information in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before investing in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Summary of Risk Factors The below is a summary of principal risks to our business and risks associated with ownership of our stock. It is only a summary. You should read the more detailed discussion of risks set forth below and elsewhere in this report for a more complete discussion of the risks listed below and other risks. If our security measures are breached or unauthorized access to customer data is otherwise obtained, our solutions may be perceived as not being secure, customers may reduce or stop the use of our solutions, and we may incur significant liabilities. The markets in which we participate are highly competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. If our newer solutions are not successfully adopted by new and existing customers, the growth rate of our revenues and operating results will be adversely affected. Our revenues are relatively concentrated within a small number of key customers, and the loss of one or more of such key customers could cause our revenues to decline. Defects or disruptions in our solutions could result in diminished demand for our solutions and a reduction in our revenues, and subject us to substantial liability. The migration of our customers to our Vault CRM applications built on our own Veeva Vault platform could cause business disruptions for customers, lead to the loss of our customers to competitors, and adversely affect our operating results. Nearly all of our revenues are generated by sales to customers in the life sciences industry, and factors that adversely affect this industry (including regulatory, funding, or policy changes) could also adversely affect us. Uncertain macroeconomic and geopolitical factors, including as a result of worldwide inflationary pressures and changes in interest rates, currency exchange fluctuations, changes in trade policies and practices (including the imposition of tariffs) or other economic policies, geopolitical conflicts (like the Russian invasion of Ukraine and the regional conflict in the Middle East), and concerns about a possible domestic or global recession, may cause instability in the global economy, and disruptions within the life sciences industry that may negatively impact our business, our financial results, and our stock price. Over the longer term our revenue growth rates are likely to fluctuate from year to year and may decline, and, as our costs increase, we may not be able to sustain the same level of profitability we have achieved in the past. Difficulty attracting and retaining highly skilled employees could adversely affect our business and efforts to attract and retain such employees may increase our expenses. If the third-party providers of healthcare professional and healthcare organization data and prescription drug sales data, such as IQVIA for instance, do not allow our customers to upload and use such data in our solutions, the demand for our solutions may decrease, and our business may be negatively impacted. We rely on third-party providers for computing infrastructure, secure network connectivity, and other technology-related services needed to deliver our cloud solutions, and any slowdown, failure, or disruption in the services provided by them could adversely affect our business and subject us to liability. Changing laws, regulations, and enforcement priorities, including increasingly complex U.S. and international data privacy and information security regulations and measures specific to the life sciences Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 9 Table of Contents industry, may impose additional costs for compliance, reduce demand for our solutions, and subject us to significant liabilities. We are currently being sued by third parties for alleged misappropriation of trade secrets. We may suffer damages, which could be significant, or other harm from these lawsuits and we may be sued for infringement or misappropriation of third-party intellectual property in the future. We may acquire other companies or technologies, which could divert our managements attention, result in additional dilution to our stockholders, and otherwise disrupt our operations and adversely affect our operating results. Risks Related to Our Business If our security measures are breached or compromised or unauthorized access to customer data is otherwise obtained, our solutions may be perceived as not being secure, customers may reduce or stop their use of our solutions, and we may incur significant liabilities. Our solutions involve the storage, transmission, and other processing of our customers proprietary information (including personal or identifying information regarding their employees and the medical professionals whom their sales personnel contact, and sensitive proprietary data related to the clinical trial, regulatory submission, and sales and marketing processes for medical treatments), personal information of medical professionals, personal information (which may include personal health information) of patients and clinical trial participants, and other sensitive information. For example, Veeva Crossix and Veeva Compass process third-party health and non-health data for U.S. patients. Additionally, we maintain and process other confidential, proprietary, and sensitive business information, including personal information relating to our employees and contractors and confidential information relating to our solutions and business. Unauthorized access or other security breaches or incidents, as a result of third-party action (e.g., cyberattacks, or the introduction into our networks or systems of ransomware or other malware), employee or contractor error or malfeasance, product defect, or otherwise, have resulted in and could in the future result in the loss of information or intellectual property, inappropriate access to or use, disclosure, unavailability, modification, destruction, or other processing of information, service interruption, degradation, disruption, and outages, service level credits, claims, demands, litigation, regulatory investigations and other proceedings, indemnity obligations, damage to our reputation, and other liability. It is possible that our risk of cyberattacks and other sources of security breaches and incidents may be elevated as a result of Russias invasion of Ukraine, the regional conflict in the Middle East, or other geopolitical tensions or conflicts, due to an increase in cyberattack attempts on us, our customers, our partners, or our technology infrastructure providers. While we maintain and continue to improve our security measures, we may be unable to adequately anticipate security threats or to implement adequate preventative measures, in part, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and are becoming increasingly sophisticated and complex, and generally are not identified until they are launched against a target. For instance, as artificial intelligence (AI) technologies, including generative AI models, develop rapidly, threat actors are using these technologies to create sophisticated new attack methods that are increasingly automated, targeted, coordinated, and difficult to defend against. Moreover, our efforts to detect, prevent, and remediate known or unknown security vulnerabilities, including those arising from third-party hardware or software in our supply chain, may be insufficient to prevent security breaches or incidents resulting from such vulnerabilities, and may result in additional direct or indirect costs and liabilities and time of management and technical personnel. We may be required to expend significant capital and financial resources to protect against the foregoing threats and to alleviate problems caused by actual or perceived security breaches or incidents. Additionally, we and our service providers may face difficulties or delays in identifying, remediating, and otherwise responding to any cybersecurity attack or other security breach or incident. Any or all of these circumstances or issues, or the perception that any of them have occurred or are present (including any actual or perceived cyberattacks or other security breaches or incidents), could adversely affect our ability to attract new customers, cause existing customers to elect not to renew their subscriptions, result in reputational damage and harm to our market position, or subject us to third-party claims, demands, and lawsuits, regulatory investigations, proceedings, fines, and penalties, mandatory notifications and disclosures, or other action or liability, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our insurance may not be Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 10 Table of Contents adequate to cover losses associated with such events, and such insurance may not cover all of the types of costs, expenses, and losses we could incur to respond to and remediate a security breach or incident. The markets in which we participate are highly competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. The markets for our solutions are highly competitive. In new sales cycles within our largest product categories, we generally compete with other cloud-based solutions from providers that make applications geared toward the life sciences industry. Our CRM solutions primarily compete with Salesforce, Inc., which is developing a life sciences industry-specific CRM application and has entered into a partnership with IQVIA Holdings, which also offers various data products and other applications that compete with our products. Our Veeva Data Cloud products as well as Veeva Crossix, compete with IQVIA, Ipsos Group S.A., Definitive Health Corp., and smaller data and data analytics providers. IQVIA, Dassault Systmes, OpenText Corporation, Oracle Corporation, Honeywell International Inc., and other smaller application providers offer applications that compete with certain of our Veeva Development Cloud or Veeva Quality Cloud applications. Our Veeva Commercial Cloud, Veeva Development Cloud, and Veeva Quality Cloud applications also compete to replace client server-based legacy solutions offered by companies such as Oracle, Microsoft Corporation, and other smaller application providers. Our customers may also choose to use cloud-based applications or platforms that are not life sciences specificsuch as Salesforce, Inc., Box.com, Amazon Web Services, or Microsoftfor certain of the functions our applications provide. Our business consulting and professional services offerings compete with a range of professional services firms, which include, at times, some of our partners. With the introduction of new technologies, we expect competition to intensify in the future, and we may face competition from new market entrants as well. As we transition from our legacy Veeva CRM application to our Vault CRM application, as discussed in more detail below, certain customers have chosen, and other customers may in the future choose, to purchase CRM solutions from a competitor. For example, Salesforce, our primary CRM competitor, recently announced that a large Veeva CRM customer has committed to purchasing its CRM solutions. Some of our actual and potential competitors have advantages over us, such as longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing or other resources, stronger brand and business recognition, larger intellectual property portfolios, and agreements with a broader set of system integrators and other partners. In addition, our competitors have offered price concessions, delayed payment terms, or other more favorable terms and conditions in light of the recent macroeconomic environment. If our competitors products, services, or technologies become more accepted than our solutions, if they are successful in bringing their products or services to market earlier than we are, if their products or services are more technologically capable than ours (including as a result of new or better use of evolving AI technologies), or if customers replace our solutions with custom-built software, then our revenues could be adversely affected. Moreover, if we enter new markets, we will likely face competition and will need to adapt to competitive factors that may be different from those we face today. Pricing pressures and increased competition could result in reduced sales, reduced margins, losses, or a failure to maintain or improve our competitive market position, any of which could adversely affect our business. For all of these reasons, we may not be able to compete favorably against our current and future competitors. If our newer solutions are not successfully adopted by new and existing customers, the growth rate of our revenues and operating results will be adversely affected. Our continued growth and profitability will depend on our ability to successfully develop and sell new solutions. It is uncertain whether these newer solutions will continue to grow as a percentage of revenues at a pace significant enough to support our expected overall growth. For example, as discussed in more detail below, we have begun to migrate our Veeva CRM customers to Vault CRM. We cannot be certain that we will be successful with respect to newer solutions and markets. It may take us significant time, and we may incur significant expense, to effectively market and sell these solutions, develop other new solutions, or make enhancements to our existing solutions. If our newer solutions do not continue to gain traction in the market, or other solutions that we may develop and introduce in the future do not achieve market acceptance in a timely manner, the growth rate of our revenues and operating results will be adversely affected. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 11 Table of Contents Our revenues are relatively concentrated within a small number of key customers, and the loss of one or more of such key customers, or their failure to renew or expand user subscriptions, could slow the growth rate of our revenues or cause our revenues to decline. In our fiscal years ended January 31, 2025, 2024, and 2023, our top 10 customers accounted for 28%, 28%, and 29% of our total revenues, respectively. We rely on our reputation and recommendations from key customers in order to promote our solutions to potential customers, which we call reference selling. The loss of any of our key customers, or a failure of one or more of them to renew or expand user subscriptions for some or all our products, could have a significant impact on the growth rate of our revenues, our reputation, and our ability to obtain new customers. In the event of an acquisition of one of our customers or a business combination between two of our customers, we have in the past and may in the future suffer reductions in user subscriptions or nonrenewal of certain or all of their subscription orders. We are also likely to face increasing purchasing scrutiny at the renewal of large customer subscription orders, which may result in reductions in user subscriptions or increased pricing pressure. The business impact of any of these negative events could be particularly pronounced with respect to our largest customers. Defects or disruptions in our solutions could result in diminished demand for our solutions, a reduction in our revenues, and subject us to substantial liability. We have from time to time found defects in our solutions, and new defects may be detected in the future. In addition, we have experienced, and may in the future experience, service disruptions, degradations, outages, and other performance problems. These types of problems may be caused by a variety of factors, including human or software errors, viruses, cyberattacks, fraud, spikes in customer usage, problems associated with our third-party computing infrastructure and network providers, infrastructure changes, and denial of service issues. Service disruptions may result from errors we make in delivering, configuring, or hosting our solutions, or designing, installing, expanding, or maintaining our computing infrastructure. In some instances, we may not be able to identify the cause or causes of these performance problems within an acceptable period of time. It is also possible that such problems could result in losses of customer data. Since our customers use our solutions for important aspects of their businesses, any errors, defects, disruptions, service degradations, or other performance problems with our solutions, could hurt our reputation and may damage our customers businesses. Such issues have in the past, and may in the future, result in increased operational costs, delays in delivering new products, our customers delaying or withholding payment to us, cancelling their agreements with us, electing not to renew, or making service credit claims, warranty claims, or other claims against us, and loss of future sales. The occurrence of any of these events could result in diminishing demand for our solutions, a reduction of our revenues, an increase in our bad debt expense or in collection cycles for accounts receivable, or could require us to incur the expense of litigation or substantial liability. The migration of our CRM customers to our Vault CRM applications built on our own Veeva Vault platform could cause business disruptions for customers, lead to the loss of our customers to competitors, and adversely affect our operating results. We currently depend on the Salesforce platform to deliver our Veeva CRM application, but we have begun to migrate our CRM customers to our Vault CRM solutions, which are built on our Veeva Vault platform. We do not intend to renew our agreement with Salesforce, Inc. for use of the Salesforce platform. Veeva CRM will be supported until September 1, 2030. The migration of our Veeva CRM customers will require time and expense, which may be significant. These migration processes are complex and we cannot be certain that we will be successful. Further, certain customers have decided, and other customers may in the future decide, not to migrate to Vault CRM and use a different CRM solution, including a CRM solution provided by Salesforce. Additionally, the migration may lead to outages or performance problems with Vault CRM or other Vault applications if we encounter difficulties supporting the increased volume of users migrating from Veeva CRM. Any disruptions in our services or other migration-related problems, whether or not such incidents are our fault, that could subject us to liability or harm our reputation. If we are unsuccessful migrating our Veeva CRM customers to Vault CRM, encounter disruptions or other problems in the migration process, or our customers do not migrate to the Vault CRM in a timely manner, or at all, our business, operating results, and brand could be materially and adversely affected. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 12 Table of Contents Our sales cycles can be long and unpredictable, and our sales efforts require considerable investment of resources. If our sales cycle lengthens or we invest substantial resources pursuing unsuccessful sales opportunities, our operating results and growth would be harmed. Our sales process entails planning discussions with prospective customers, analyzing their existing solutions, and identifying how these potential customers could use and benefit from our solutions. The sales cycle for a new customer, from the time of prospect qualification to the completion of the first sale, may span 12 months or longer. Sales cycles for our newer applications or in newer markets or industries are also lengthy and difficult to predict. We spend substantial time, effort, and expense in our sales efforts without any assurance that our efforts will result in the sale of our solutions. In addition, our sales cycle can vary substantially from customer to customer because of various factors, including the discretionary nature of potential customers purchasing and budget decisions, the macroeconomic and regulatory environments, the availability of funding in the life sciences industry, the announcement or planned introduction of new solutions by us or our competitors, and the purchasing approval processes of potential customers. For example, we have recently experienced increased scrutiny for certain potential projects, particularly for our professional services offerings, which may continue for the foreseeable future. If our sales cycle lengthens or we invest substantial resources pursuing unsuccessful sales opportunities, our operating results and growth would be harmed. Sales to customers outside the United States or with international operations expose us to risks inherent in international sales. In our fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, customers outside North America accounted for approximately 41% of our total revenues. A key element of our growth strategy is to further expand our international operations and worldwide customer base. Operating in international markets requires significant resources and management attention and subjects us to regulatory, economic, and political risks that are different from those in the United States. We have limited operating experience in some international markets, and we cannot assure you that our expansion efforts into additional international markets will be successful. Our experience in the United States and other international markets in which we already have a presence may not be relevant to our ability to expand in other markets. Our international expansion efforts may not be successful in creating further demand for our solutions outside of the United States or in effectively selling our solutions in the international markets we enter. The risks we face in doing business internationally that have in the past adversely affected, and could in the future adversely affect, our business include: the need and expense to localize and adapt our solutions for specific countries, including translation into foreign languages, and ensuring that our solutions enable our customers to comply with local laws and regulations; data privacy and data sovereignty laws which require that customer data be stored and processed in a designated territory; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; different pricing environments, longer sales cycles and longer accounts receivable payment cycles, and collections issues; new and different sources of competition; weaker protection for intellectual property and other legal rights than in the United States and practical difficulties in enforcing intellectual property and other rights outside of the United States; laws and business practices favoring local competitors; compliance challenges related to the complexity of multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, including those related to employment, tax, privacy and data protection, anti-bribery, and environmental, social and governance matters; increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; difficulties in repatriating funds without adverse tax consequences or restrictions on the transfer of funds more generally, including as a result of sanctions, including those arising from the Russian invasion of Ukraine, which may limit our ability to receive payment from Russian banks; Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 13 Table of Contents adverse tax consequences, including the potential for required withholding taxes; fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currency in which our foreign revenues or expenses may be denominated; changes in diplomatic relations and trade policy, including the status of relations between the United States and other countries, including China and Russia, and the implementation of or changes to export controls, trade sanctions, tariffs, and embargoes, including if the United States and other countries were to impose more significant general sanctions against Russia in response to the continuing conflict in Ukraine, which could ban the use of our products by companies or users in Russia; public health crises, such as epidemics and pandemics; and unstable regional and economic political conditions or armed conflicts in the markets in which we operate, including as a result of the Russian invasion of Ukraine and the regional conflict in the Middle East. We have an office, vendors, and customers in Israel and many of our customers in other regions also have operations in Israel. Armed conflicts, terrorist activities or political instability involving Israel or other countries in the region may cause business disruptions and adversely impact our results of operations. We do not currently have locations or employees in Russia and our revenues from sales to Russian entities is limited. However, certain customers have reduced their number of users of our products in Ukraine. Additionally, the European Union adopted sanctions against Russia prohibiting the sale and supply of enterprise software to entities and individuals in Russia. If customers further curtail or discontinue their operations in Ukraine or Russia, or if we are not able to supply or service users in Russia due to existing or new sanctions, we may lose sales and our results of operations could be negatively impacted. Some of our business partners also have international operations and are subject to the risks described above. Even if we are able to successfully manage the risks of international operations, our business may be adversely affected if our business partners are not able to successfully manage these risks, which could adversely affect our business. Difficulty attracting and retaining highly skilled employees could adversely affect our business and efforts to attract and retain such employees may increase our expenses. To execute our growth plan, we must attract and retain highly skilled employees. Competition for such employees and potential employees is intense. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining employees with the appropriate level of qualifications, and we also have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, intense recruitment of our employees by competitors and other technology companies. Further, it takes time for newly hired employees to become productive. With respect to sales professionals, for instance, even if we are successful in attracting highly qualified personnel, it may take six to nine months or longer before they are fully trained and productive. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced employees have greater resources than we have and may offer compensation packages and benefits that are perceived to be better than ours. For example, we offer equity awards to a substantial majority of our job candidates and existing employees as part of their overall compensation package. If the perceived value of our equity awards declines, including as a result of prolonged declines in the market price of our common stock or changes in perception about our future prospects, it may adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain highly skilled employees. Additionally, changes in our compensation structure may be negatively received by employees and result in attrition or cause difficulty in the recruiting process. If we fail to attract new employees or fail to retain and motivate our current employees, our business and future growth prospects could be adversely affected. Additionally, we have adopted a Work Anywhere policy, which generally gives employees the flexibility to work in an office or at home on any given day, with certain job-specific restrictions. While we believe this program is beneficial to our business, over the long term we may find it challenging or more costly to maintain employee productivity and collaboration as we continue to grow our business. If we fail to maintain employee productivity and collaboration, our ability to attract and retain highly qualified employees and to achieve our business objectives could be negatively affected. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 14 Table of Contents Catastrophic events could disrupt our business and adversely affect our operating results. Our corporate headquarters are located in Pleasanton, California and our primary third-party hosted computing infrastructure is located in the United States, the European Union, Japan, and South Korea. The west coast of the United States, Japan, and South Korea each contain active earthquake zones. Additionally, we rely on our network and third-party infrastructure and enterprise applications, internal technology systems, and our website, for our development, marketing, operational support, hosted services, and sales activities. In the event of a major earthquake, hurricane, or other natural disaster, or catastrophic event such as an actual or threatened public health emergency (e.g., a global pandemic), fire, extreme weather event, power loss, telecommunications failure, cyberattack, armed conflicts (including the Russian invasion of Ukraine and the regional conflict in the Middle East), or terrorist attack, we may be unable to continue our operations at full capacity or at all and may experience system interruptions, reputational harm, delays in our solution development, lengthy interruptions in our services, breaches of data security, loss of key employees, and loss of critical data, all of which could have an adverse effect on our future operating results. Acquisitions could divert our managements attention, result in additional dilution to our stockholders, and otherwise disrupt our operations. We have in the past acquired and may in the future seek to acquire or invest in businesses, solutions, or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our solutions, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth opportunities. The pursuit of potential acquisitions may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur various expenses in identifying, investigating, and pursuing suitable acquisitions, whether or not they are completed. We have limited experience in acquiring other businesses. We may not be able to successfully integrate the acquired personnel, operations, and technologies or effectively manage the combined business following the acquisition. We also may not achieve the anticipated benefits from the acquired business due to a number of factors, including: inability to integrate or benefit from acquired technologies or services in a profitable manner; costs, liabilities, or accounting charges associated with the acquisition; difficulty entering into new markets in which we have little or no experience or where competitors have stronger market positions; difficulty integrating the privacy, data security, and accounting systems, operations, and personnel of the acquired business; difficulties and additional expenses associated with supporting legacy products and hosting infrastructure of the acquired business; difficulty converting the customers of the acquired business onto our solutions and contract terms, including due to disparities in the revenue, licensing, support, or professional services model of the acquired company; diversion of managements attention from other business concerns; problems arising from differences in applicable accounting standards or practices of the acquired business (for instance, non-U.S. businesses may not be accustomed to preparing their financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP) or difficulty identifying and correcting deficiencies in the internal controls over financial reporting of the acquired business; adverse effects to business relationships with our existing business partners and customers as a result of the acquisition; difficulty in retaining key personnel of the acquired business; use of substantial portions of our available cash to consummate the acquisition; use of resources that are needed in other parts of our business; significant changes beyond our control to the worldwide economic environment that could negatively impact our underlying assumptions and expectations for performance of the acquired business; and the possibility of investigation by, or the failure to obtain required approvals from, governmental authorities on a timely basis, if at all, under various regulatory schemes, including competition laws, Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 15 Table of Contents which could, among other things, delay or prevent us from completing a transaction, subject the transaction to divestiture after the fact, or otherwise restrict our ability to realize the expected financial or strategic goals of the acquisition. Acquisitions could also use substantial portions of our available cash and result in dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, if an acquired business fails to meet our expectations, our operating results, business, and financial position may suffer. Moreover, a significant portion of the purchase price of companies we acquire may be allocated to acquired intangible assets and goodwill, which we must assess for impairment at least annually. In the future, if our acquisitions do not yield expected returns, we may be required to take charges to our operating results based on this impairment assessment process, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Acquisitions may also result in purchase accounting adjustments, write-offs or restructuring charges, which may negatively affect our results. Changes in our senior management team or other key personnel could have a negative effect on our ability to execute our business strategy. Our success depends in a large part upon the continued service of our senior management team and other key personnel. For example, our founder and Chief Executive Officer, Peter P. Gassner, is critical to our vision, strategic direction, culture, products, and technology. Leadership transitions can be inherently difficult to manage, and an unsuccessful transition may cause disruption to our business. If our succession planning for key personnel is inadequate, the loss of one or more of our key employees could harm our business. In addition, changes in our senior management team may create uncertainty among our customers, investors, employees, or job candidates concerning Veevas future direction and performance. Any disruption in our operations or uncertainty around our ability to execute could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected if our customers are not satisfied with the professional or technical support services provided by us or our partners. Our business depends on our ability to satisfy our customers, both with respect to our solutions and the professional services that are performed in connection with the implementation of our solutions, including training our customers employees on our solutions. Professional services may be performed by us, by a third party, or by a combination of the two. If a customer is not satisfied with the quality of work performed by us or a third party or with the solutions delivered, we could incur additional costs to address the situation, we may be required to issue credits or refunds for pre-paid amounts related to unused services, the profitability of that work might be impaired, and the customers dissatisfaction with our services could damage our ability to expand the number of solutions subscribed to by that customer. Moreover, negative publicity related to our customer relationships, regardless of its accuracy, may further damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new business with current and prospective customers. Once our solutions are deployed, our customers depend on our support organization to resolve technical issues relating to our solutions. We may be unable to sufficiently accommodate short-term increases in customer demand for technical support services to our customers satisfaction. Increased customer demand for our technical support services, without corresponding revenues, could increase costs and adversely affect our operating results. In addition, our sales process is highly dependent on the reputation of our solutions and business and on positive recommendations from our existing customers. Any failure to maintain high-quality technical support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality support, could adversely affect our reputation, our ability to sell our solutions to existing and prospective customers, and our business and operating results. Our estimate of the market size for our solutions we have provided publicly may prove to be inaccurate, and even if the market size is accurate, we cannot assure you that our business will serve a significant portion of the market. Our estimate of the market size for our solutions that we have provided publicly, sometimes referred to as total addressable market (TAM), is subject to significant uncertainty and is based on assumptions and estimates, including our internal analysis and industry experience, which may not prove to be accurate. These estimates are, in part, based upon the size of the general application areas we target. Our ability to serve a significant portion of this estimated market is subject to many factors, including our success in implementing our business strategy, which is subject to many risks and uncertainties. For example, in order to address the entire TAM we have identified, we must continue to enhance and add functionality to our existing solutions and introduce new solutions. Accordingly, Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 16 Table of Contents even if our estimate of the market size is accurate, we cannot assure you that our business will serve a significant portion of this estimated market for our solutions. Risks Related to the Principal Industry We Serve Nearly all of our revenues are generated by sales to customers in the life sciences industry, and factors that adversely affect this industry, including mergers within the life sciences industry or regulatory changes, could also adversely affect us. Nearly all of our sales are to customers in the life sciences industry. Demand for our solutions could be affected by factors that affect the life sciences industry, including: Regulatory changes, government policies, and government funding decisions related to the life sciences industryChanges in regulations could negatively impact the business environment for our life sciences customers and for us. Healthcare laws and regulations are rapidly evolving and may change significantly in the future. For example, regulatory changes with respect to life sciences advertising, such as limitations on or the elimination of the ability of pharmaceutical companies to engage in direct-to-consumer advertising, could negatively impact certain of our product offerings, including our Crossix business. Further, in recent years, there have been legislative and regulatory changes regarding the pricing of drugs and other healthcare treatments sold by life sciences companies, such as the drug pricing reforms in the Inflation Reduction Act, and additional drug pricing reforms have been discussed and may be proposed in the future. Significant changes in drug pricing policy or regulation could result in lower revenues and profits for life sciences companies and reduced demand for our products. In addition, reductions in funding of government agencies and programs relevant to the life sciences industrysuch as the Food and Drug Administration, the National Institutes of Health, and Medicaidor changes in funding priorities relevant to the life sciences industry could adversely affect the life sciences industry. Consolidation of companies within the life sciences industryConsolidation within the life sciences industry has accelerated in recent years, and this trend could continue. We have in the past, and may in the future, suffer reductions in user subscriptions or non-renewal of customer subscription orders due to industry consolidation. We may not be able to expand sales of our solutions and services to new customers enough to counteract any negative impact of company consolidation on our business. In addition, new companies that result from such consolidation may decide that our solutions are no longer needed because of their own internal processes or alternative solutions. As these companies consolidate, competition to provide solutions and services will become more intense and establishing relationships with large industry participants will become more important. These industry participants may also try to use their market power to negotiate price reductions for our solutions. If consolidation of our larger customers occurs, the combined company may represent a larger percentage of business for us and, as a result, we are likely to rely more significantly on revenue from the combined company to continue to achieve growth. In addition, if large life sciences companies merge, it would have the potential to reduce per-unit pricing for our solutions for the merged companies or to reduce demand for one or more of our solutions as a result of potential personnel reductions over time. Changes in the funding environment and bankruptcies in the life sciences industryOur business depends on the overall economic health of our existing and prospective customers. The purchase of our solutions may involve a significant commitment of capital and other resources. A reduction in private funding or the ability to secure funding in public markets for early-stage life sciences companies has resulted in the past, and may result in the future, in reduced sales and adverse effects to our financial results. Moreover, life sciences companies, and in particular early-stage companies with pre-commercial treatments in clinical trials, may ultimately be unsuccessful and may subsequently declare bankruptcy. If our customers declare bankruptcy or otherwise dissolve, they may terminate their agreements with us or we may not be able to recoup the full payment of fees owed to us. Certain of our customers or potential customers may also be negatively impacted by high interest rates and may find access to debt and other financing more difficult as a result. Changes in market conditions and practices within the life sciences industryThe expiration of key patents, the implications of precision medicine treatments, changes in the practices of prescribing physicians and patients, changes with respect to payer relationships, and the policies and preferences of healthcare professionals and healthcare organizations with respect to the sales and marketing efforts of life sciences companies could negatively impact demand for our solutions. Changes in public Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 17 Table of Contents perception regarding the practices of the life sciences industry may result in political pressure to increase the regulation of life sciences companies in one or more of the areas described above, which may negatively impact demand for our solutions. Other factors could lead to a significant reduction in sales representatives that use our solutions or otherwise change the demand for our solutions. For example, in recent years, certain life sciences companies have reduced the number of sales representatives they employ due to an increased preference for digitally-enabled sales channels, which negatively impacted sales of our solutions, including Veeva CRM and certain of our other Commercial Solutions. Changes in geopolitical conditions that impact the life sciences industry, changes in the ability to sell healthcare treatments in certain locations, and the global availability of healthcare treatments provided by the life sciences companies to which we sellIf economic or geopolitical conditions deteriorate, or the ability to market life sciences products or conduct clinical trials in key markets is disrupted, including as a result of the Russian invasion of Ukraine; the regional conflict in the Middle East; changes in export controls; sanctions, tariffs, or other international laws; or if the demand for life sciences products globally deteriorates for other reasons, our customers may delay or reduce their IT spending, particularly within the regions impacted by negative economic or geopolitical conditions. For example, a number of significant life sciences companies have scaled back sales, operations, and investments in Russia, including curtailing sales and marketing and clinical trial activity in Russia. Any of the above could result in reductions in sales of our solutions, longer sales cycles, reductions in subscription duration and value, slower adoption of new product offerings, and increased price competition. Accordingly, our operating results and our ability to efficiently provide our solutions to life sciences companies and to grow or maintain our customer base could be adversely affected as a result of these factors and others that affect the life sciences industry generally. Our solutions address heavily regulated functions within the life sciences industry, and failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could lessen the demand for our solutions or subject us to significant claims and losses. Our customers use our solutions for business activities that are subject to a complex regime of global laws and regulations, including requirements for maintenance of electronic records and electronic signatures, requirements regarding drug sample tracking and distribution, requirements regarding system validations, requirements regarding processing of health data, and other laws and regulations. Our customers expect to be able to use our solutions in a manner that is compliant with the regulations to which they are subject. Our efforts to provide solutions that comply with such laws and regulations are time-consuming and costly and include validation procedures that may delay the release of new versions of our solutions. As these laws and regulations change over time, we may find it difficult to adjust our solutions to comply with such changes. In addition, many countries and self-regulatory bodies impose requirements regarding payments and transfers of value from life sciences companies to healthcare professionals. For example, our current and prospective customers may be required to comply with the U.S. federal legislation commonly referred to as the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, enacted as part of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, and its implementing regulations (Sunshine Act). The Sunshine Act requires certain manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics, and medical supplies, with specific exceptions, to report annually to the government information related to certain payments and other transfers of value to physicians. Our solutions and services targeted at life sciences companies, including, for example, Veeva Digital Events, are used by our customers to assist with their reporting obligations under the Sunshine Act. If our solutions and services fail to assist our customers to meet such reporting obligations in a timely and accurate manner, demand for our solutions could decrease, which could adversely affect our business. As we increase the number of products we offer, increase the number of countries in which we operate, and incorporate new technologies and capabilities into our products (including the use of AI and machine learning technologies), the complexity of adjusting our solutions to comply with legal and regulatory changes will increase. If we are unable to effectively manage this increased complexity or if we are not able to provide solutions that can be used in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, customers may be unwilling to use our solutions, and any such non-compliance could result in the termination of our customer agreements or claims arising from such agreements with our customers. Furthermore, we have in the past and may in the future be subject to inspections or audits by government agencies or other regulatory bodies to verify our customers compliance with applicable laws, regulations, or GxP principles. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 18 Table of Contents Additionally, any failure of our customers to comply with laws and regulations applicable to the functions for which they use our solutions could result in investigations by regulatory authorities, fines, penalties, or claims for substantial damages against our customers that may, in turn, harm our business or reputation. If such failure were allegedly caused by our solutions or services, our customers may make a claim for damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for the failure. We may be subject to investigations and lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could divert our resources and our managements attention and adversely affect our business and customer relationships, and our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover such claims against us. Increasingly complex regulations relating to privacy, data protection, and cybersecurity are burdensome, may reduce demand for our solutions, and non-compliance may impose significant liabilities. Our customers use our solutions to collect, use, store, disclose, and otherwise process personal data regarding their employees, healthcare professionals, and patients. Patient data may include sensitive health data. In many countries, governmental bodies have adopted or may adopt laws and regulations regarding the security, collection, use, storage, disclosure, and other processing of personal data, making compliance an increasingly complex task. Under the European General Data Protection Regulation (EU GDPR) and the United Kingdoms General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR), we act as a data controller for our data products and a data processor with respect to our software products. Each of the GDPR and UK GDPR impose significant data protection obligations and provide for substantial penalties and other remedies for noncompliance.We maintain active self-certifications under the EU-U.S. Data Privacy Framework, the UK Extension to the EU-U.S. DPF, and the Swiss-U.S. Data Privacy Framework as set forth by the U.S. Department of Commerce. We also rely on EU, Swiss, and UK Standard Contractual Clauses, as well as our technical, contractual, and security measures, to help ensure that our European customers have the appropriate legal mechanisms in place for their personal data to be accessed from within the United States. We are required to take steps to legitimize any personal data transfers impacted by these developments, and to engage in contract negotiations with third parties that aid in processing personal data on our behalf. We may be subject to increased costs of compliance and limitations on our service providers and us. In addition, these laws are complex, with the application and interpretation of them, at times, unclear and inconsistent, and significant penalties may be imposed for non-compliance. For example, in May 2023, the Irish Data Protection Commission imposed a significant fine on a large internet technology corporation for its failure to sufficiently address risks to EU data subjects when transferring data to the U.S. Other countries have imposed or may in the future impose data localization obligations, cross-border data transfer restrictions, and other country specific privacy and security requirements which could be problematic to cloud software and data providers. For example, in 2021, China adopted the Personal Information Protection Law, which, together with the Cybersecurity Law and the Data Security Law, require companies that process personal data of China residents above certain thresholds to seek approval from the Cyberspace Administration of China (CAC) to transfer such data outside of China. In 2023, certain of our Veeva CRM customers in China were required to request such approval from the CAC and had their requests denied. Customers required to request approval may need to implement a CRM solution that does not require data to be transferred outside of China and customers not subject to the requirement may nonetheless choose to do so. While we offer the China CRM Suite, a CRM solution that does not require data to be transferred outside of China, some customers have chosen, and other customers may choose, other CRM providers, which may negatively impact our CRM business in China. Currently, approximately 2% of our total revenue is attributable to China. Additionally, as we expand our data product offerings into new jurisdictions, we are required to assess, monitor, and comply with additional laws and regulations related to our collection and processing of data, which may include new registration, consent, and notification obligations. We also expect laws, regulations, industry standards and other obligations in relating to privacy, data protection, and cybersecurity to continue to evolve, and that there will continue to be new, modified, and re-interpreted laws, regulations, standards, and other obligations in these areas. For example, the Network and Information Security Directive II (NIS2), adopted in 2023, aims to enhance cybersecurity across critical infrastructure and essential services in the EU. NIS2 provides for all 27 EU member states to have issued implementing legislation by October 2024; however, several EU member states have not finalized their respective legislation and guidance. In the United States, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has promulgated privacy and security rules under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) that cover protected health information (PHI) by limiting use and disclosure and giving individuals the right to access, amend, and seek accounting of disclosures of their PHI. Certain of our customers may be either business associates or covered entities under HIPAA, which means we must maintain a HIPAA compliance program. There is also the potential for the U.S. federal government to pass additional data privacy laws. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 19 Table of Contents U.S. federal and state data privacy laws are rapidly evolving. These laws impose new and modify existing obligations on businesses that collect personal information, create new privacy rights for individuals, and contain enhanced requirements for and restrictions on data brokers. For example, under the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), as amended, we are generally considered a service provider for our software solutions and a business for our data products. Some of these laws and regulations also target certain types of marketing and advertising based on the use of personal information. The State of Washington, for example, passed the My Health My Data Act, which became effective on March 21, 2024, establishing significant new restrictions on how businesses can collect, use, and disclose consumer health data. Veeva Crossixs data platform combines large-scale data sets, inclusive of de-identified health and consumer data, to provide insights, analytics, and audience segmentation for our life sciences customers in the U.S. In response to the Washington law, we made modifications to our audience segments that may reduce demand for our Crossix products, which, in turn, could adversely impact the business. Other states have considered, and in certain cases enacted, similar laws. Additionally, the U.S. Department of Justice recently issued a final rule that takes effect on April 8, 2025, and places limitations, and in some cases prohibitions, on certain transfers of sensitive personal data to data to business partners located in China or with other specified links to China and other designated countries. These various laws, regulations, and legislative developments have potentially far-reaching consequences and have and may continue to require us to modify our solutions and data management practices and incur substantial expense in order to comply. In addition to governmental laws and regulations, privacy advocates and other key industry players have, and may continue to, establish various new standards and certifications, such as the prohibition of third-party cookies and other identifiers in certain digital environments, that may place additional burdens or resource constraints on us, limit our ability to collect, use, and otherwise process certain data, and limit our ability to generate certain analytics. Our customers may expect us to meet voluntary certifications or adhere to other standards established by third parties. Understanding and implementing industry and customer specific requirements and certifications on top of our internationally recognized security certifications could require additional investment and management attention and may subject us to significant liabilities if we are unable to comply. Moreover, the continuing evolution of these standards might cause confusion for our customers and may have an impact on the solutions we offer. If we are unable to maintain these certifications or meet these standards, it could reduce demand for our solutions and adversely affect our business and operating results. Customers expect that our solutions can be used in compliance with applicable data protection, data privacy and cybersecurity laws and regulations. Compliance with these global laws and regulations, including any new or evolving regulations relating to the use of data in AI and machine learning technologies, such as the EU AI Act, has and will continue to require valuable management and employee time and resources and modification of our products or operations, and may also limit use and adoption of our products. Data protection authorities from around the world will from time to time review our products and services and their compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Any actual or perceived failure to comply with such laws and regulations or other actual or asserted obligations relating to privacy, data protection, or cybersecurity could lead to inspections, audits, regulatory investigations and other proceedings, significant fines, penalties, and other relief imposed by government agencies and regulatory bodies, and claims, demands, and litigation by our customers or third parties, which may reduce demand for our solutions and result in reputational harm, substantial damages and other liabilities. Incorporating AI in our solutions may result in reputational harm and increased liability. We recently began incorporating AI capabilities into certain of our solutions, which presents new risks and challenges that could affect the adoption of our solutions and our business. If our AI offerings draw controversy due to their perceived or actual impact on privacy, security or confidentiality, inefficacy or inaccuracy, or contribution to bias, discrimination, other ethical harms, or other matters, we may experience new or enhanced governmental or regulatory scrutiny, brand or reputational harm, competitive harm or legal liability. If our users lose confidence in the decisions, predictions, analyses, or other content that our AI offerings produce, the adoption of our offerings could be adversely affected, which may harm our operating results and financial condition. The legal, regulatory, and policy environments around AI are evolving rapidly, and we may become subject to new and evolving legal and other obligations. These and other developments may require us to make significant changes to our use of AI, including by limiting or restricting our use of AI, and which may require us to make significant changes to our policies and practices, which may necessitate expenditure of significant time, expense, and other resources. Uncertainty around new and emerging AI applications and regulations may require us to make significant changes to our use of AI, including by limiting or restricting such use, and may cause us to incur increased research and development costs or compliance costs, or divert resources from other development efforts to address issues related to AI governance. If we are unable to mitigate these risks, or if we incur excessive expenses in our efforts to do so, our reputation, business, operating results, and financial condition may be harmed. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 20 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Reliance on Third Parties If the third-party providers of healthcare professional and healthcare organization data and prescription drug sales data do not allow our customers to upload and use such data in our solutions, the demand for our solutions may decrease, and our business may be negatively impacted. Many of our customers license healthcare professional and healthcare organization data and data regarding the sales of prescription drugs from third parties such as IQVIA. In order for our customers to upload such data to the Veeva CRM, Veeva Network, Veeva Nitro, and other Veeva applications, such third-party data providers typically must consent to such uploads and often require that we enter into agreements regarding our obligations with respect to such data, which include confidentiality obligations and intellectual property rights with respect to such third-party data. We have experienced delays and difficulties in our negotiations with such third-party data providers in the past, and we expect to continue experiencing difficulties in the future. For instance, IQVIA currently will not consent that customers using its healthcare professional or healthcare organization data may upload such data to Veeva Network and this has negatively affected sales and customer adoption of Veeva Network. To date, IQVIA has also restricted customers from uploading any of its data to Veeva Nitro, and has denied use of its data with certain other Veeva applications and for certain other use cases. In addition, IQVIA has stated publicly that it will deny all customer requests for use of new IQVIA data types in Veeva applications, including, as examples, real world data, real world evidence, and genomics. Similarly, sales and customer adoption of Veeva OpenData has been negatively impacted by certain restrictions on the use of IQVIA data during customer transitions from IQVIA data to Veeva OpenData. If third-party data providers, particularly IQVIA, do not consent to the uploading and use of their data in our solutions, delay consent, or fail to offer reasonable conditions for the upload and use of their data in our solutions, our sales efforts, solution implementations, and productive use of our solutions by customers, which have been harmed by such actions in the past, may continue to be harmed. Restrictions on the ability of our customers to use third-party data in our solutions may also decrease demand for our solutions or may cause customers to consider purchasing solutions that are not subject to the same restrictions. If these third-party data limitations persist, our business may be negatively impacted. We rely on third-party providersincluding Salesforce, Inc. and Amazon Web Servicesfor computing infrastructure, secure network connectivity, and other technology-related services needed to deliver our cloud solutions. Any disruption in the services provided by such third-party providers could adversely affect our business and subject us to liability. Our solutions are hosted from and use computing infrastructure provided by third parties. We utilize Amazon Web Services with respect to applications built on the Veeva Vault platform. Our Veeva CRM application is built on a platform provided by Salesforce, Inc. that utilizes hosting and computing infrastructure provided by Salesforce, Inc. However, as discussed in more detail above, we have begun to migrate our Veeva CRM customers to Vault CRM, which is built on our Veeva Vault platform. We also utilize other computing infrastructure service providers to a lesser extent. We do not own or control the operation of the third-party facilities or equipment used to provide the services described above. Our computing infrastructure service providers have no obligation to renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to renew these agreements on commercially reasonable terms or if our computing infrastructure is unable to keep up with our needs for capacity, we may be required to transition to a new provider and we may incur significant costs and possible service interruption in connection with doing so. In addition, such service providers could decide to close their facilities or change or suspend their service offerings without adequate notice to us. Moreover, any financial difficulties, such as bankruptcy, faced by such service providers may have negative effects on our business, the nature and extent of which are difficult to predict. Since we cannot easily switch computing infrastructure service providers, any disruption with respect to our current providers would impact our operations and our business could be adversely impacted. Problems faced by our computing infrastructure service providers could adversely affect the experience of our customers. For example, Salesforce, Inc. and Amazon Web Services have experienced significant service outages in the past and may do so again in the future. Additionally, our failure to manage or react to an increase in customer demand could have an adverse effect on our business. A rapid expansion of our business or an increase in customer demand could affect our service levels or cause our systems to fail. Our agreements with third-party computing infrastructure service providers may not entitle us to corresponding service level credits to those we offer to our customers. Any changes in third-party service levels at our computing infrastructure service providers or any related disruptions, slowdowns, failures, or other performance problems with our solutions could result in lengthy interruptions in our services, damage our customers stored files, or result in potential losses of customer data, any Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 21 Table of Contents of which could adversely affect our reputation. Interruptions in our services might reduce our revenues, cause us to issue refunds to customers for prepaid and unused subscriptions, subject us to service level credit claims and potential liability, or adversely affect our renewal rates. We are currently dependent upon Salesforce, Incs. platform for our Veeva CRM application. We are currently dependent upon the Salesforce platform to deliver Veeva CRM. However, we have begun to migrate our Veeva CRM customers to Vault CRM, which is built on our Veeva Vault platform, and we do not intend to renew our agreement with Salesforce, Inc. when the current term expires on September 1, 2025. Pursuant to the terms of our agreement, during the wind-down period from September 1, 2025 to September 1, 2030, we may not sell applications that utilize the Salesforce platform to new customers and our sales of applications that utilize the Salesforce platform to a customer existing at September 1, 2025 may not exceed 150% of the seats in use by each such customer as of September 1, 2025. After September 1, 2030, we will not be able to sell applications that utilize the Salesforce platform to any customers. Salesforce, Inc. also has the right to terminate the agreement early in certain circumstances, including in the event of a material breach of the agreement by us, or if Salesforce, Inc. is subjected to third-party intellectual property infringement claims based on our solutions (except to the extent based on the Salesforce platform) or our trademarks and we do not remedy such infringement in accordance with the agreement. Also, if we are acquired by specified companies, Salesforce, Inc. may terminate the agreement upon notice of not less than 12 months. On May 1, 2023, as allowed by the terms of our agreement, Salesforce Inc. terminated certain competition restrictions imposed by the agreement. Per the terms of the agreement, termination of those non-competition obligations by Salesforce, Inc. released us from our minimum order commitments in the future. Under the terms of our current agreement, Salesforce, Inc. is no longer prohibited from promoting third-party products that are competitive to Veeva CRM, treating another third party as a "preferred" vendor of a CRM solution in the pharma and biotech market, or developing or promoting a product that competes with Veeva CRM. For example, Salesforce, Inc. is developing a life sciences industry-specific CRM application that will compete with our offerings and has entered into a partnership with IQVIA. In addition, current or potential customers may choose a competitor, such as Salesforce or IQVIA, or build their own custom solutions on the Salesforce platform rather than buy from us. Any of these events may have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. We employ third-party licensed software and software components for use in or with our solutions, and the inability to maintain these licenses or the presence of errors or security vulnerabilities in the software we license could limit the functionality of our products and result in increased costs or reduced service levels, which would adversely affect our business. In addition to our employment of the Salesforce platform through our agreement with Salesforce, Inc., our solutions incorporate or use certain third-party software and software components obtained under licenses from other companies. We also use third-party software and tools in the development process for our solutions to manage and monitor our computing infrastructure, and to provide professional services and support our customers. For example, our Veeva CRM Engage Meeting application uses a purpose-built partner tool from Zoom Video Communications, Inc., which is critical to the applications functionality. We anticipate that we will continue to rely on such third-party software and development tools in the future. Although we believe that there are commercially reasonable alternatives to the third-party software we currently license, this may not always be the case, or it may be difficult or costly to replace. In addition, although we maintain a supplier security evaluation process, if the third-party software we use has errors, security vulnerabilities, or otherwise malfunctions, the functionality of our solutions may be negatively impacted, our customers may experience reduced service levels, and our business may suffer. Our solutions utilize open-source software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open-source licenses could adversely affect our business. Our solutions include software covered by open-source licenses. The terms of various open-source licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to market our solutions. It is possible under the terms of certain open-source licenses, if we combine our proprietary software with open-source software in a certain manner, that we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software and make our proprietary software available under open-source licenses. In the event that portions of our proprietary software are determined Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 22 Table of Contents to be subject to an open-source license, we could be required to publicly release the affected portions of our source code, re-engineer all or a portion of our solutions, or otherwise be limited in the licensing of our solutions, each of which could reduce or eliminate the value of our solutions. In addition to risks related to license requirements, use of open-source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open-source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the origin of the software. Many of the risks associated with the use of open-source software cannot be eliminated and could adversely affect our business. Risks Related to Our Financial Performance, How We Contract with Customers, and the Financial Position of Our Business Our historic growth rates of total revenues and subscription services revenues should not be viewed as indicative of our future performance. While we have experienced significant revenue growth in prior periods, it is not indicative of our future revenue growth. Our total revenues and subscription services revenue growth rates have declined in the past and may decline in the future. In our fiscal years ended January 31, 2025, 2024, and 2023, our total revenues grew by 16%, 10%, and 16% respectively, as compared to total revenues from the prior fiscal years. In our fiscal years ended January 31, 2025, 2024, and 2023, our subscription services revenues grew by 20%, 10%, and 17% respectively, as compared to subscription services revenues from the prior fiscal years. Over the longer term, our revenue growth rates are likely to fluctuate from year to year and may decline. If we are unable to maintain consistent revenue growth, it may adversely impact our profitability and the value of our common stock. Our results may fluctuate from period to period, which could prevent us from meeting our own guidance or security analyst or investor expectations. Our results of operations, including our revenues, gross margin, operating margin, profitability, cash flows, normalized billings, and deferred revenue, as well as other metrics we may report, have in the past and may in the future vary from period to period for a variety of reasons, including those listed elsewhere in this Risk Factors section, and period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. Accordingly, our quarterly results should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Additionally, from time to time, we issue guidance and provide commentary regarding our expectations for certain future financial results and other metrics on both a near-term and long-term basis. Our guidance is based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that are subject to significant business, economic, and competitive uncertainties that are beyond our control and are based upon assumptions about future business and accounting decisions that may change or be wrong. Our guidance may prove to be incorrect, and actual results may differ from our guidance. Fluctuations in our results, changes in our guidance, or failure to achieve our guidance or security analyst or investor expectations, even if not materially, could cause the price of our common stock to decline substantially, and our investors could incur substantial losses. Our subscription agreements with our customers are typically for a term of one year. If our existing customers do not renew their subscriptions, do not buy additional solutions and user subscriptions from us, renew at lower aggregate fee levels, or early terminate their existing agreements, our business and operating results will suffer. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from the renewal of existing subscription orders. The majority of our customers orders for subscription services have one-year terms. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions after their orders expire. Thus, securing the renewal of our subscription orders and selling additional solutions and user subscriptions is critical to our future operating results. Factors that may affect the renewal rate for our solutions and our ability to sell additional solutions and user subscriptions include: the price, performance, and functionality of our solutions; the effectiveness of our professional services; the strength of our business relationships with our customers; the availability, price, performance, and functionality of competing solutions and services; our ability to develop complementary solutions, applications, and services; the stability, performance, and security of our hosting infrastructure and hosting services; and Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 23 Table of Contents the business environment of our customers and, in particular, reductions in spending or headcount, and acquisitions of or business combinations between our customers or other business developments that may result in reductions in user subscriptions. For example, certain of our contracting terms include an annual inflation adjustment that raises the price to each customer upon renewal by the lower of 4% or the Consumer Price Index (All Urban Consumer, U.S. City Average, All Items Index) published by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics for the month of August of the prior calendar year. If this increase results in reduced renewal rates, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Further, our customers may negotiate terms less advantageous to us upon renewal, which could reduce our revenues from these customers. As a customers total spend on Veeva solutions increases, we expect purchasing scrutiny at renewal to increase as well, which may result in reductions in user subscriptions or increased pricing pressure. Other factors that are not within our control may contribute to a reduction in our subscription services revenues. For instance, our customers may reduce their number of sales representatives, which would result in a corresponding reduction in the number of user subscriptions needed for some of our solutions and thus a lower aggregate renewal fee, or our customers may discontinue clinical trials for which our solutions are being used. In addition, our master subscription agreements governing multi-year orders generally include a right to terminate for convenience. Certain customers have exercised that right prior to the contracted end date, and other customers may also choose to do so in the future. If our customers fail to renew their subscription orders, renew their subscription orders with less favorable terms or at lower fee levels, fail to purchase new solutions, applications, or professional services from us, or terminate their existing agreements early, our revenues may decline or our future revenues may be constrained. As our costs increase, we may not be able to sustain the level of profitability we have achieved in the past. We expect our future expenses to increase as we continue to invest in and grow our business. We expect to incur significant future expenditures related to: developing new solutions and enhancing our existing solutions, including additional data acquisition costs associated with our Veeva Compass offering and investment in our product development teams; improving the technology infrastructure, scalability, availability, security, and support for our solutions; sales and marketing, including expansion of our direct sales organization and global marketing programs; expansion of our professional services organization; pending, threatened, or future legal proceedings, certain of which are described in Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings and note 14 of the notes to our consolidated financial statements, and which we expect to continue to result in significant legal expense for the foreseeable future; international expansion; acquisitions and investments; and general operations, IT systems, facilities, and administration, including legal and accounting expenses. If our efforts to increase revenues and manage our expenses are not successful, or if we incur costs, damages, fines, settlements, or judgments as a result of other risks and uncertainties described in this report, we may not be able to sustain or increase our historical levels of profitability. Our revenues and gross margin from professional services fees are volatile and may not increase from quarter to quarter or at all. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from professional services fees. Our professional services revenues fluctuate from quarter to quarter as a result of the requirements, complexity, and timing of customer projects. Our customers may also choose to use third parties rather than us for certain professional services related to our solutions. As a result of these and other factors, our professional services revenues may not increase on a quarterly basis in the future or at all. Additionally, the gross margin generated from professional services fees fluctuates based on a number of factors which may vary from period to period, including the average billable hours worked by our billable professional services personnel, our average hourly rates for professional services, and the margin on Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 24 Table of Contents professional services subcontracted to our third-party systems integrator partners. As a result of these and other factors, the gross margin from our professional services may not increase on a quarterly basis in the future or at all. Because we recognize subscription services revenues ratably over the term of an order for our subscription services, our short-term results of operations may not reflect a decline in sales and may not be indicative of future results. We generally recognize subscription services revenues ratably over the term of an order under our subscription agreements. As a result, a substantial majority of our quarterly subscription services revenues are generated from subscription agreements entered into during prior periods. Consequently, a decline in new subscriptions in any quarter may not affect our results of operations in that quarter but could reduce our revenues in future quarters. Additionally, the timing of renewals or non-renewals or termination for convenience of a subscription agreement during any quarter may only affect our financial performance in future quarters. For example, the non-renewal of a subscription agreement late in a quarter will have minimal impact on revenues for that quarter but will reduce our revenues in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant declines in sales and customer acceptance of our solutions may not be reflected in our short-term results of operations, which would make these reported results less indicative of our future financial results. By contrast, a non-renewal occurring early in a quarter may have a significant negative impact on revenues for that quarter and we may not be able to offset a decline in revenues due to the non-renewal with revenues from new subscription agreements entered into in the same quarter. Deferred revenue and change in deferred revenue may not be accurate indicators of our future financial results. Our subscription orders are generally billed at the beginning of the subscription period in annual or quarterly increments, which means the annualized value of such orders may not be completely reflected in deferred revenue at any single point in time. Many of our customers, including many of our large customers, are billed on a quarterly basis and therefore a substantial portion of the value of contracts billed on a quarterly basis will not be reflected in our deferred revenue at the end of any given quarter. Also, particularly with respect to expansion orders for our Commercial Solutions, because the term of orders for additional end users or applications is commonly less than one year to align to the renewal date of existing Commercial Solutions orders, the annualized value of such orders may not be completely reflected in deferred revenue at any single point in time. We have also agreed from time to time, and may agree in the future, to allow customers to change the renewal dates of their orders to, for example, align more closely with a customers annual budget process or to align with the renewal dates of other orders placed by other entities within the same corporate control group, or to change payment terms from annual to quarterly, or vice versa. Such changes may result in an order of less than one year as necessary to align all orders to the desired renewal date and, thus, may result in a lesser increase to deferred revenue compared to if the adjustment had not occurred. Additionally, changes in renewal dates may change the fiscal quarter in which deferred revenue associated with a particular order is booked. Accordingly, we do not believe that changes on a quarterly or annual basis in deferred revenue, calculated billings, or normalized billings are precise indicators of the underlying momentum of our business or future revenues. We believe that our subscription revenue guidance and normalized billings guidance for the full fiscal year are the best indicators of the momentum of our business or future revenues. Please note that we define the term calculated billings for any period to mean revenue for the period plus the change in deferred revenue from the immediately preceding period minus the change in unbilled accounts receivable from the immediately preceding period. We define the term normalized billings for any period to mean calculated billings adjusted for the impact of (i) term changes in our customer renewals, such as changes to renewal date (for example, changing the renewal date of multiple products to be coterminous) or changes to billing frequency (for example, changing from annual to quarterly billings), and (ii) delayed renewals that have closed and billed after the period end. However, many companies that provide cloud-based software report changes in deferred revenue or billings as key operating or financial metrics, and it is possible that analysts or investors may view these metrics as important. Thus, any changes in our deferred revenue balances or deferred revenue trends could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Currency exchange fluctuations may negatively impact our financial results. Some of our international agreements provide for payment denominated in local currencies, and the majority of our local costs are denominated in local currencies. As we continue to expand our operations in countries outside the United States, an increasing proportion of our revenues and expenditures in the future may be denominated in Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 25 Table of Contents foreign currencies. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar versus foreign currencies may impact our operating results when translated into U.S. dollars. Thus, our results of operations and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly changes in the Euro, Japanese Yen, Canadian Dollar, Great British Pound Sterling, and Chinese Yuan, and may be adversely affected in the future due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Changes in exchange rates may negatively affect our revenues, expenses, and other operating results as expressed in U.S. dollars in the future. For example, changes in exchange rates negatively affected our revenues as expressed in U.S. dollars for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2025 and 2024, and may also negatively affect our revenues as expressed in U.S. dollars for the fiscal year ending January 31, 2026. Further, we have experienced and will continue to experience fluctuations in our net income as a result of transaction gains or losses related to certain asset and liability balances that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entities in which they are recorded. We engage in the hedging of our foreign currency transactions and may in the future hedge selected significant transactions or net monetary exposure positions denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The use of such hedging activities may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place. Moreover, the use of hedging instruments may introduce additional risks if we are unable to structure effective hedges with such instruments. Taxing authorities may successfully assert that we should have collected or in the future should collect sales and use, value-added or similar transactional taxes, and we could be subject to liability with respect to past or future sales, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We do not collect sales and use, value added or similar transactional taxes in all jurisdictions in which we have sales but no physical presence, based on our determination that such taxes are not applicable or that we are not required to collect such taxes with respect to the jurisdiction. Sales and use, value added and similar tax laws and rates vary greatly by jurisdiction. Certain jurisdictions in which we do not collect and remit such taxes may assert that such taxes are applicable, which could result in tax assessments, penalties and interest, and we may be required to collect such taxes in the future. Such tax assessments, penalties and interest or future requirements, including based on changes in tax laws, may adversely affect our results of operations. We believe that our consolidated financial statements reflect adequate reserves to cover such a contingency, but there can be no assurances in that regard. Unanticipated changes in our effective tax rate and additional tax liabilities, including as a result of our international operations or implementation of new tax rules, could harm our future results. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of expenses in differing jurisdictions and complex transfer pricing regulations administered by taxing authorities in these jurisdictions. Tax rates may change as a result of factors outside of our control or relevant taxing authorities may disagree with our determinations as to the income and expenses attributable to specific jurisdictions. In addition, changes in tax and trade laws, treaties or regulations, or their interpretation or enforcement, have become more unpredictable and may become more stringent, which could have a material adverse effect on our tax position. Additionally, volatility in our stock price would affect the excess tax benefits from our equity compensation, which may adversely impact our effective tax rate. Forecasting our estimated annual effective tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty, and there may be material differences between our forecasted and actual tax rates. Moreover, increases in our effective tax rate would reduce our profitability. Our income tax provision could also be impacted by changes in accounting principles and changes in U.S. federal and state or international tax laws applicable to multinational corporations. For example, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 eliminated the option to currently deduct research and development expenditures and required taxpayers to capitalize and amortize them over five or fifteen years, which has negatively impacted our cash from operations. We made significant judgments and assumptions in the interpretation of this new law and in our calculations reflected in our financial results. Any changes in taxing jurisdictions' administrative interpretations, decisions, policies, and positions could also impact our tax liabilities. The overall tax environment has made it increasingly challenging for multinational corporations to operate with certainty about taxation in many jurisdictions. For example, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) is making progress with ongoing reforms of the international tax system, including changes to the practice of shifting profits among affiliated entities located in different tax jurisdictions. In October 2021, the OECD announced that more than 135 jurisdictions agreed on a two-pillar solution Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 26 Table of Contents to address the tax challenges arising from the digitalization of the economy, including a global minimum effective corporate tax rate of 15% for certain large multinational companies, referred to as Pillar Two. A number of countries, including the United Kingdom, have implemented the legislation effective January 1, 2024, and we expect others to follow. However, this did not have an adverse impact on our income tax provision for the 2025 fiscal year. We continue to monitor and assess the developments and implications surrounding changes in the global tax environment, including Pillar Two. The increasingly complex global tax environment could have a material adverse effect on our effective tax rate, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. Finally, we have been, and may be in the future, subject to income tax audits throughout the world. We believe our income, employment, and transactional tax liabilities are reasonably estimated and accounted for in accordance with applicable laws and principles, but an adverse resolution of one or more uncertain tax positions in any period could have a material impact on the results of operations for that period. If we are unable to implement and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. As a public company, we are required to maintain internal controls over financial reporting and to report any material weaknesses in such internal controls. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley Act) requires that we evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and provide a management report on internal controls over financial reporting. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act also requires that our management report on internal controls over financial reporting be attested to by our independent registered public accounting firm. We must continue to monitor and assess our internal control over financial reporting. If in the future we have any material weaknesses, we may not detect errors on a timely basis and our financial statements may be materially misstated. Additionally, if in the future we are unable to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner, are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, identify material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected, and we could become subject to investigations by the NYSE, the SEC, or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources. We have broad discretion in the use of our cash balances and may not use them effectively. We have broad discretion in the use of our cash balances and may not use them effectively. The failure by our management to apply these funds effectively could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Pending their use, we may invest our cash balances in a manner that does not produce income or that loses value. We are also subject to general economic conditions, including volatility in the financial markets, that can negatively affect our investment income or negatively impact the banking partners on which we rely for operating cash management. Our investments may not yield a favorable return to our investors and may negatively impact the price of our common stock. A loss on our investments may also negatively impact our liquidity, which in turn may hurt our ability to invest in our business. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property We have been and may in the future be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights or misappropriation of intellectual property, and we may suffer damages or other harm from such proceedings. There is considerable patent and other intellectual property development activity in our industry. Our competitors, as well as a number of other entities and individuals, including so-called non-practicing entities, may own or claim to own intellectual property relating to our solutions. From time to time, third parties have claimed, and may in the future claim, that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights or that we have misappropriated their intellectual property. For example, since January 2017, we have been defending against assertions of trade secret misappropriation made by our competitor, IQVIA, as described in note 14 of the notes to our consolidated financial statements and other competitors have asserted similar claims in the past. We are also in discussions with a non-practicing entity relating to alleged infringement of its patents. As competition in our market grows and as we develop new technology products, the possibility of patent infringement and other intellectual property claims against us increases. In the future, we expect others to claim that our solutions and underlying technology infringe or violate their intellectual property rights. We may be unaware of the intellectual property rights that others may Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 27 Table of Contents claim cover some or all of our technology or services. Such claims and litigation have caused and in the future could cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, could require that we pay substantial damages or ongoing royalty payments, prevent us from offering our services, or require that we comply with other unfavorable terms. We may also be obligated to indemnify our customers or business partners or pay substantial settlement costs, including royalty payments, in connection with any such claim or litigation and to obtain licenses, modify applications, or refund fees, which could be costly. Any litigation regarding our intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations even if we were to ultimately prevail in such litigation. Any failure to protect our intellectual property rights could impair our ability to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. Our success and ability to compete depend in part upon our intellectual property. As of January 31, 2025, we have filed numerous domestic and foreign patent applications and have been issued 83 U.S. patents and 13 international patents. We also rely on copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, trade secret protection and confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, customers, partners, consultants and others to protect our intellectual property rights. However, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property rights may be inadequate and we may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge, trade secrets or other confidential information. Further, if there is a breach or violation of the terms of our confidentiality agreements, we may not have adequate remedies. In addition, in order to protect our intellectual property rights, we may also be required to spend significant resources to maintain, monitor and protect these rights. Litigation brought to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly, time-consuming and distracting to management and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property (for example, if an entity against which we have asserted an intellectual property claim is successful in attacking the validity of our intellectual property). Negative publicity related to a decision by us to initiate such enforcement actions against a customer or former customer, regardless of its accuracy, may adversely impact our other customer relationships or prospective customer relationships, harm our brand and business and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our failure to secure, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our brand and our business. Risks Related to Our Status as a Public Benefit Corporation, Our ESG Disclosures, and Ownership of Our Common Stock Our status as a Delaware public benefit corporation may not result in the benefits that we anticipate, requires our directors to balance the interest of stockholders with other interests, and may subject us to legal uncertainty and other risks. On February 1, 2021, after approval by our stockholders, we became a Delaware public benefit corporation (PBC). There are a very limited number of publicly traded PBCs, we are the first publicly traded company to convert to a PBC, and we are the largest publicly traded company, as measured by revenue or market capitalization, to operate as a PBC. As a PBC, we have unique legal obligations. We are required to adopt and include in our certificate of incorporation a public benefit purpose that is intended to have positive effects on a category of persons, entities or communities other than stockholder financial interest. Our public benefit purpose is to provide products and services that are intended to help make the industries we serve more productive, and to create high-quality employment opportunities in the communities in which we operate. Further, as a PBC, our Board is required to balance our stockholders' pecuniary (financial) interests, the best interests of those materially affected by our conduct, and pursuit of our public benefit purpose. We have identified those materially affected by our conduct (which we refer to as stakeholders) as including our customers, our employees, our partners, and the communities in which we operate. We believe that operating as a PBC is beneficial to our business and consistent with the long-term interests of stockholders, but the benefits we anticipate from operating as a PBC may not materialize within the timeframe we expect or at all, or there may be negative effects. Further, we may be unable or slow to achieve the public benefits we have identified or we may make balancing determinations that are ultimately harmful to our business or to stockholders, which could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition, and results of operations and cause our stock price to decline. In the event of a conflict between the interests of our stockholders, our stakeholders, and our public benefit purpose, our directors must only make an informed and disinterested decision, and not such that no person of ordinary, sound judgment would approve. Our directors have significant latitude under this standard and there is no Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 28 Table of Contents guarantee that a conflict would be resolved in favor of our stockholders. This balancing obligation may allow our directors to make decisions that they could not have made pursuant to the fiduciary duties applicable prior to our PBC conversion, and such decisions may not maximize short-term stockholder value. For instance, in a sale of control transaction, our board of directors would be required to consider and balance the factors listed above and might choose to accept an offer that does not maximize short-term stockholder value due to its consideration of other factors. Further, there is limited legal precedent or guidance regarding how to administer our obligation to balance the interests of stockholders, stakeholders, and the pursuit of our public benefit purpose. While we expect that, in large part, traditional Delaware corporation law principles and the application of those principles in case lawincluding those related to self-dealing, conflicts of interest, and the application of the business judgment rulewill continue to apply with respect to Delaware PBCs, there is currently limited case law involving PBCs, which may create legal uncertainty or additional litigation risk until additional case law develops. Stockholders of a Delaware PBC (if they, individually or collectively, own at least the lesser of two percent of the company's outstanding shares or shares with a market value of at least $2 million) may file suit to enforce the balancing obligation. Any such lawsuit might be a distraction to our management and board of directors, and could be costly, which may have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. As a PBC, we are required to disclose to stockholders a report at least biennially that includes our assessment of our success in achieving our specific public benefit purpose, and we have committed to providing this report annually and making it publicly available. If we are not timely or are unable to provide this report, or if the report is not viewed favorably, our reputation and status as a public benefit corporation may be harmed. While we do not view the additional reporting obligations of a PBC to be onerous, Delawares PBC statute may be amended in the future to require more explicit or burdensome periodic reporting requirements and that could increase our expenses. In addition, if the public perceives that we are not successful in our public benefit purpose, or that our pursuit of our public benefit purpose is having a negative effect on the financial interests of our stockholders, that perception could negatively affect our reputation, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Evolving expectations and disclosure requirements related to environmental, social and governance matters expose us to risks that could adversely affect our reputation and performance. The positions we take on environmental, social, and corporate governance (ESG) matters may impact our brand and reputation, our ability to attract or retain customers, or our relationships with our employees, stockholders, and other stakeholders. These positions or a failure or perceived failure to meet certain stated ESG commitments could adversely affect our reputation, financial performance, and growth, and expose us to increased scrutiny from the investment community as well as enforcement authorities. Standards for tracking and reporting ESG matters continue to evolve. Our processes and controls may not comply with evolving standards for identifying, measuring, and reporting ESG metrics, including ESG-related disclosures that are required or may be required of public companies by the SEC and other regulators. Additionally, increasing regulatory requirements and regulatory scrutiny related to ESG matters may result in higher compliance costs for us. Our failure or perceived failure to satisfy various reporting standards on a timely basis, or at all, could have similar negative impacts or expose us to government enforcement actions and private litigation. Our common stock price has been and will likely continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been, and will likely continue to be, volatile for the foreseeable future. In addition, the trading prices of the securities of technology companies have been highly volatile. Accordingly, the market price of our common stock is likely to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. Uncertain macroeconomic and geopolitical factors, including as a result of worldwide inflationary pressures and changes in interest rates, currency exchange fluctuations, changes in trade policies and practices (including the imposition of tariffs) or other economic policies, geopolitical conflicts (like the Russian invasion of Ukraine and the regional conflict in the Middle East), and concerns about a possible domestic or global recession have led to volatility in the stock market. As a result, our stock price has changed significantly in recent periods, and we expect the trading price of our common stock will likely continue to be volatile for the Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 29 Table of Contents foreseeable future. In addition to those risks described in this Risk Factors section, other factors have in the past and could in the future impact the value of our common stock, including: fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us, such as high-growth or cloud companies, or in valuation metrics, such as our price to revenues ratio; overall performance of the stock market; changes in our financial, operating or other metrics, regardless of whether we consider those metrics as reflective of the current state or long-term prospects of our business, and how those results compare to securities analyst expectations, including whether those results fail to meet, exceed, or significantly exceed securities analyst expectations; changes in the forward-looking estimates of our financial, operating, or other metrics, how those estimates compare to securities analyst expectations, or changes in recommendations by securities analysts that follow our common stock; announcements of customer additions and customer cancellations or delays in customer purchases; the net increase in the number of customers, either independently or as compared to published expectations of industry, financial or other analysts that cover us; announcements by us or by our competitors of technological innovations, new solutions, enhancements to services, strategic alliances or significant agreements; announcements by us or by our competitors of mergers or other strategic acquisitions or rumors of such transactions; the economy as a whole and market conditions within our industry and the industries of our customers; macroeconomic and geopolitical factors and instability and volatility in the global financial markets; future monetary policy changes in the United States and globally; the operating performance and market value of other comparable companies; securities or industry analysts downgrading our common stock or publishing inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business; trading activity by directors, executive officers (in particular our Chief Executive Officer who holds a significant portion of our outstanding common stock and a significant number of vested options), and other significant stockholders, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell their shares; issuances of shares of common stock in connection with our equity compensation plan, acquisitions, financings, and exercises of stock options resulting in dilution to our existing stockholders; and any other factors discussed herein. In addition, if the market for technology stocks or the stock market in general experiences uneven investor confidence, the market price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, operating results or financial condition. The market price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies within, or outside, our industry even if these events do not directly affect us. Some companies that have experienced volatility in the trading price of their stock have been the subject of securities class action litigation. If we are the subject of such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our managements attention and resources. We do not intend to pay dividends on our capital stock for the foreseeable future, so any returns will be limited to changes in the value of our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings for the development, operation, and expansion of our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. In addition, our ability to pay cash dividends on our capital stock may be prohibited or limited by the terms of any future debt financing arrangement. Any return to stockholders will therefore be limited to the increase, if any, of the price of our common stock. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 30 Table of Contents Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the market price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could depress the market price of our common stock by acting to discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. These provisions among other things: permit our board of directors to establish the number of directors; provide that directors may only be removed with the approval of 66-2/3% of our stockholders; require super-majority voting to amend some provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws; authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock that our board of directors could use to implement a stockholder rights plan; require our board of directors to consider and balance our stockholders' pecuniary (financial) interests, the best interests of those materially affected by our conduct, and the pursuit of our public benefit purpose, which may, in turn, allow our board of directors to make a decision about a change of control transaction that does not maximize short-term stockholder value; prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter, or repeal our amended and restated bylaws; and establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at annual stockholder meetings. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of our company. Section 203 imposes certain restrictions on merger, business combinations, and other transactions between us and holders of 15% or more of our common stock. Our bylaws provide for exclusive forums for certain disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or employees. Our bylaws provide that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, any action asserting a breach of fiduciary duty, any action asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law or any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Our bylaws also provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the federal district courts of the United States shall be the sole and exclusive forum for any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, such a provision known as a Federal Forum Provision. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in our shares of capital stock shall be deemed to have notice of and consented to these provisions. These choice of forum provisions may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or other employees and may discourage these types of lawsuits. Alternatively, if a court were to find the choice of forum provision contained in our bylaws to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. ITEM 1C. CYBERSECURITY. We recognize the critical importance of developing, implementing, and maintaining robust cybersecurity measures to safeguard our information systems and protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of our data. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 31 Table of Contents Governance Our board of directors formed a Cybersecurity Committee to exercise oversight over our cybersecurity and privacy programs and controls for our products and our internal-use information technology. The Cybersecurity Committee is chaired by a director with cybersecurity expertise and board and executive experience at large technology companies. The Cybersecurity Committee receives reports from management on a regular basis on a range of topics, including the current cybersecurity landscape and emerging threats, the status of ongoing cybersecurity initiatives, incident reports from cybersecurity and privacy events, data privacy policies and procedures, and compliance with regulatory requirements and industry standards. Our day-to-day cybersecurity and technology risk management efforts, including oversight of our information security management system, are led by our EVP of Internal Operations, a member of our executive leadership team with over three decades of experience in the field, whose cybersecurity experience includes serving as our Chief Information Officer and in executive roles at other companies leading security, operations, audit, and compliance teams. Our Chief Information Security Officer (CISO), who has over two decades of experience in cybersecurity, including over five years at Veeva, reports to the EVP of Internal Operations and oversees our security team. Our CISOs cybersecurity experience includes serving as a security architect and Director of Security Engineering at Veeva, and overseeing security, automation, and performance testing for other technology companies. Cybersecurity risk management is integrated into our broader risk management framework.We have a security points of contact program, which embeds security experts into product development, services, and IT teams. In addition, a security council, chaired by our CISO, meets monthly to discuss the security program, security incidents, and ongoing program objectives. The council is comprised of senior leaders in product development, operations, security, quality, and services, and helps ensure that security remains a top priority across the enterprise. Risks Management and Strategy Information Security Management System We maintain a comprehensive Information Security Management System (ISMS) that is designed to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of customer data, corporate data (such as intellectual property or source code), employee data, and our systems. Our ISMS is founded on the following industry-leading and regulatory standards: ISO 9001:2015 Quality Management Systems ISO/IEC 27001:2013 Information Security Management SOC2 Type II System and Organization Controls SEI Capability Maturity Model Integration (v1.3) IT Infrastructure Library (ITIL) version 3 ICH Q9 Quality Risk Management We have achieved ISO 27001 certification for our ISMS, which is managed by our CISO. As a data processor, we are the custodian of customer information that can be both confidential and sensitive. We are also certified to ISO 27018 for privacy controls. Critical elements of our ISMS include: Operational measures to monitor and respond to data breaches and cyberattacks. We have application, database, network, and resource monitoring in place that are designated to identify vulnerabilities, protect our applications, and alert incident response personnel. Security incidents are addressed by our Security Incident Management Policy, which includes a formal incident response process. We also provide a trust site that displays upcoming maintenance downtimes, data center incidents, and relevant security communications. Preventative measures to hinder or limit cyberattacks. We procure, develop, deploy, and maintain preventative solutions and follow preventative practices for our corporate IT and product engineering infrastructures, as well as the production infrastructure that processes our customer data. These solutions and practices include identity and access management, separation of duties, secure software development, network and data security, and system hardening. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 32 Table of Contents Vulnerability and penetration testing.We commission annual vulnerability and penetration testing of certain systems by industry-recognized, third-party security specialists. In addition, our software products undergo internal vulnerability testing using automated and manual methods prior to general availability. Training. We require role-based security and security awareness training. All employees receive annual training on our Code of Conduct and our Acceptable Use Policy, which establishes our commitment to protecting the confidential and proprietary information of our customers and partners. In addition, all new hires and contractors must undergo information security awareness training. Subsequent security awareness training is required annually for all active employees and contractors. Employees are trained to promptly report security incidents. Employees in certain roles (e.g., customer support representatives, developers, and hiring managers) receive more extensive data and application security training annually. Disaster recovery and business continuity. Our solutions are designed to help avoid single points of failure to reduce the chance of business disruption from security breaches, incidents, and other disruptions of systems. We maintain formally documented recovery processes that may be activated in the event of a significant business disruption of our corporate IT infrastructure or the production infrastructure that processes our customer data. We conduct testing, at least annually, to verify the validity of the recovery processes and provide reports on the test results for production infrastructure that processes our customer data to customers via access to a customer portal. Process for Identifying Material Cybersecurity Incidents Potentially material cybersecurity incidents are escalated according to our Security Incident Management Policy to a management response team comprising our EVP of Internal Operations, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer, General Counsel, Chief Privacy Officer, and Associate General Counsel (Corporate). Our Security Incident Management Policy is designed to inform the management response team about, and monitor, the prevention, detection, mitigation, and remediation of cybersecurity incidents. The management response team is responsible for timely determining materiality and overseeing the appropriate reporting of certain cybersecurity incidents. Cybersecurity risks, including as a result of any previous cybersecurity incidents, have not materially affected and are not reasonably likely to materially affect our business strategy, results of operations, or financial condition. For additional information regarding risks from cybersecurity threats that we face, and regarding our likelihood of being materially affected by risks from cybersecurity threats, please see Item 1A, Risk Factors. Supplier Management Program Through our Supplier Management Program, we maintain procedures that specify requirements for the assessment of suppliers and contractors who provide services that may impact our product and process quality. These procedures allow us to identify risks from potential cybersecurity incidents associated with our use of products and services from these suppliers and ensure that there is an appropriate level of oversight of our vendors quality systems. We perform initial audits and then periodic, risk-based audits on our suppliers to ensure their products and services conform to our established quality standards. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES. We own our Pleasanton, California corporate headquarters, which currently accommodates our principal executive and significant portions of our product development, engineering, marketing, finance, and legal organizations. We expect that our corporate headquarters will support the overall growth of our business for the near term. We also lease offices in various locations, including North America, Europe, Asia Pacific, and Latin America. We expect to expand our facilities capacity in certain field locations during our fiscal year ending January 31, 2026 and may further expand our facilities capacity after January 31, 2026 as our employee base grows. We believe that we will be able to obtain additional space on commercially reasonable terms. See note 10 of the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information about our lease commitments. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. From time to time, we may be involved in legal proceedings and subject to claims incident to the ordinary course of business. For information regarding certain current legal proceedings, see note 14 of the notes to our consolidated Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 33 Table of Contents financial statements, which is incorporated herein by reference. In addition to the legal proceedings referenced in note 14, we are involved in the following additional legal proceedings which may be material to our business. California Non-Compete Matter On July 17, 2017, we filed a complaint in the Superior Court of the State of California in the County of Alameda against Medidata, IQVIA, and Sparta Systems, Inc. (Veeva Systems Inc. v. Medidata Solutions, Inc., Quintiles IMS Incorporated, IMS Software Services, LTD., and Sparta Systems, Inc., Case No. RG17868081). Our lawsuit seeks declaratory and injunctive relief concerning the use of non-compete, confidentiality, and non-disparagement agreements by these companies. Since the original complaint was filed, there have been extensive requests to the court for rulings on contested questions. On June 9, 2023, IQVIA, the only defendant remaining in the case, filed a counter-complaint seeking a declaration that its non-compete agreements comply with California law. On March 25, 2024, the trial court judge set a trial date of June 16, 2025 on the consolidated claims. Although the results of legal proceedings and claims cannot be predicted with certainty, we believe we are not currently a party to any other legal proceedings, the outcome of which, if determined adversely to us, would individually or taken together have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows, or financial position. Regardless of the outcome, such proceedings can have an adverse impact on us because of defense and settlement costs, diversion of resources and other factors, and there can be no assurances that favorable outcomes will be obtained. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES. Not applicable. PART II. ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES. Market Price of Common Stock Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol VEEV. Stockholders As of January 31, 2025, we had 17 holders of record of our common stock. The actual number of holders of common stock is greater than this number of record holders and includes stockholders who are beneficial owners but whose shares are held in street name by brokers and other nominees. This number of holders of record also does not include stockholders whose shares may be held in trust by other entities. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers None. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities None. Stock Performance Graph This performance graph shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference into any of our other filings under the Exchange Act or the Securities Act except to the extent we specifically incorporate it by reference into such filing. This chart compares the cumulative total return on our common stock with that of the S&P 500 Index and the S&P 1500 Application Software Index. The chart assumes $100 was invested at the close of market on January 31, 2020 in the common stock of Veeva Systems Inc., the S&P 500 Index, and the S&P 1500 Application Software Index and Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 34 Table of Contents assumes the reinvestment of any dividends. The stock price performance on the following graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. January 31, 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 Veeva Systems Inc. 100.00 188.55 161.34 116.33 141.47 159.10 S&P 500 100.00 117.25 144.56 132.68 160.30 202.59 S&P 1500 Application Software Index 100.00 131.94 146.32 118.53 178.89 194.28 ITEM 6. [RESERVED]. ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 35 Table of Contents You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. In addition to historical consolidated financial information, the following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors. We discuss factors that we believe could cause or contribute to these differences below and elsewhere in this report, including those set forth under Risk Factors and Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. Overview Veeva is the leading provider of industry cloud solutions for the global life sciences industry. Our offerings span cloud software, data, and business consulting and are designed to meet the unique needs of our customers and their most strategic business functionsfrom research and development (R&D) through commercialization. Our solutions help life sciences companies develop and bring products to market faster and more efficiently, market and sell more effectively, and maintain compliance with government regulations. Our industry cloud solutions are grouped into four major product categoriesVeeva Development Cloud, Veeva Quality Cloud, Veeva Commercial Cloud, and Veeva Data Cloud. For financial reporting purposes, revenues associated with our Veeva Commercial Cloud and Veeva Data Cloud solutions are classified as Commercial Solutions revenues, and revenues associated with our Veeva Development Cloud and Veeva Quality Cloud solutions are classified as R&D Solutions revenues. In our fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, we derived approximately 48% and 52% of our subscription services revenues and 47% and 53% of our total revenues from our Commercial Solutions and R&D Solutions, respectively. For the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024, we derived approximately 52% and 48% of our subscription services revenues and 50% and 50% of our total revenues from our Commercial Solutions and R&D Solutions, respectively. Revenues associated with our R&D Solutions are expected to increase as a percentage of both subscription services revenues and total revenues in the future. We also offer certain of our R&D Solutions to industries outside the life sciences industry primarily in North America and Europe. For our fiscal years ended January 31, 2025, 2024, and 2023, our total revenues were $2,747 million, $2,364 million, and $2,155 million, respectively, representing year-over-year growth in total revenues of 16% in our fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, and 10% in our fiscal year ended January 31, 2024. For our fiscal years ended January 31, 2025, 2024, and 2023, our subscription services revenues were $2,285 million, $1,902 million, and $1,733 million, respectively, representing year-over-year growth in subscription services revenues of 20% in our fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, and 10% in our fiscal year ended January 31, 2024. We generated net income of $714 million, $526 million, and $488 million for our fiscal years ended January 31, 2025, 2024, and 2023, respectively. As of January 31, 2025, 2024, and 2023, we served 1,477, 1,432, and 1,388 customers, respectively. As of January 31, 2025, 2024, and 2023, we had 730, 693, and 684 Commercial Solutions customers, respectively, and 1,125, 1,078, and 1,025 R&D Solutions customers, respectively. These customer count totals are net of customer attrition during each period.The combined customer counts for Commercial Solutions and R&D Solutions exceed the total customer count in each year because some customers subscribe to products in both areas. Many of our applications for R&D are used by smaller, earlier-stage, pre-commercial companies, some of which may not reach the commercialization stage. Components of Results of Operations Revenues We derive our revenues primarily from subscription services fees and professional services fees. Subscription services revenues consist of fees from customers accessing our cloud-based software solutions and fees for our data solutions. Professional services and other revenues consist primarily of fees from implementation services, configuration, data services, training, and managed services related to our solutions and services related to our Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 36 Table of Contents Veeva Business Consulting offering. For the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, subscription services revenues constituted 83% of total revenues and professional services and other revenues constituted 17% of total revenues. We generally enter into master subscription agreements with our customers and count each distinct master subscription agreement that has not been terminated or expired and that has orders for which we have recognized revenue in the quarter as a distinct customer for purposes of determining our total number of current customers as of the end of that quarter. We generally enter into a single master subscription agreement with each customer, although in some instances, affiliated legal entities within the same corporate family may enter into separate master subscription agreements. Conversely, affiliated legal entities that maintain distinct master subscription agreements may choose to consolidate their orders under a single master subscription agreement, and, in that circumstance, our customer count would decrease. Divisions, subsidiaries, and operating units of our customers often place distinct orders for our subscription services under the same master subscription agreement, and we do not count such distinct orders as new customers for purposes of determining our total customer count. For purposes of determining customers of Veeva Crossix that do not contract under a master subscription agreement, we count each entity that has a statement of work or services agreement and a recurring known payment obligation as a distinct customer if such entity is not otherwise a customer of ours. For Veeva Crossix, we do not count as distinct customers agencies contracting with us on behalf of brands within life sciences companies. New subscription orders for our CRM applications generally have a one-year term. If a customer adds end users or additional Commercial Solutions to an existing order for a CRM application, such additional orders will generally be coterminous with the anniversary date of the CRM order, and as a result, orders for additional end users or additional Commercial Solutions will commonly have an initial term of less than one year. Subscription services revenues are recognized ratably over the respective noncancellable subscription term because of the continuous transfer of control to the customer. Our master subscription agreements governing multi-year orders generally include a termination for convenience right for our customers. The amount of revenue recognized from such orders will generally be consistent with the amount invoiced for the relevant term of the order. Our subscription orders are generally billed at the beginning of the subscription period in annual or quarterly increments, which means the annualized value of such orders may not be completely reflected in deferred revenue at any single point in time. Also, particularly with respect to expansion orders for our Commercial Solutions, because the term of orders for additional end users or applications is commonly less than one year to align to the renewal date of existing Commercial Solutions orders, the annualized value of such orders may not be completely reflected in deferred revenue at any single point in time. We have also agreed from time to time, and may agree in the future, to allow customers to change the renewal dates of their orders to, for example, align more closely with a customers annual budget process or to align with the renewal dates of other orders placed by other entities within the same corporate control group, or to change payment terms from annual to quarterly, or vice versa. Such changes may result in an order of less than one year as necessary to align all orders to the desired renewal date and, thus, may result in a lesser increase to deferred revenue compared to if the adjustment had not occurred. Additionally, changes in renewal dates may change the fiscal quarter in which deferred revenue associated with a particular order is booked. Accordingly, we do not believe that changes on a quarterly or annual basis in deferred revenue, calculated billings, or normalized billings are precise indicators of future revenues. We define the term calculated billings for any period to mean revenue for the period plus the change in deferred revenue from the immediately preceding period minus the change in unbilled accounts receivable from the immediately preceding period. We define the term normalized billings for any period to mean calculated billings adjusted for the impact of (i) term changes in our customer renewals, such as changes to renewal date (for example, changing the renewal date of multiple products to be coterminous) or changes to billing frequency (for example, changing from annual to quarterly billings), and (ii) delayed renewals that have closed and billed after the period end. Our agreements typically provide that orders will automatically renew unless notice of non-renewal is provided in advance. Subscription services revenues are affected primarily by the number of customers, the scope of the subscription purchased by each customer (for example, the number of end users or other subscription usage metric) and the number of solutions subscribed to by each customer. We utilize our own personnel to perform our professional services and business consulting engagements with customers. In certain cases, we may utilize third-party subcontractors to perform professional services engagements. The majority of our professional services arrangements are billed on a time and materials basis and revenues are recognized over time based on time incurred and contractually agreed upon rates. Certain professional services and business consulting arrangements are billed on a fixed fee basis and revenues are Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 37 Table of Contents typically recognized over time as the services are delivered based on time incurred. Data services and training revenues are generally recognized as the services are performed. Professional services revenues are affected primarily by our customers demands for implementation services, configuration, data services, training, speakers bureau logistics, and managed services in connection with our solutions. Our business consulting revenues are affected primarily by our customers demands for services related to a particular customer success initiative, strategic analysis, or business process change, and not by cloud software implementation. Allocated Overhead We accumulate certain costs such as office rent, utilities, and other facilities costs, information technology, and building depreciation, and allocate them across the various departments based on headcount. We refer to these costs as allocated overhead. Cost of Revenues Cost of subscription services revenues for all of our solutions consists of expenses related to our computing infrastructure provided by third parties, including Salesforce, Inc. and Amazon Web Services, personnel related costs associated with hosting our subscription services and providing support, including our data stewards, data acquisition costs, and costs of delivering our data solutions, expenses associated with computer equipment and software, and allocated overhead. Cost of professional services and other consists primarily of employee-related expenses associated with providing professional and business consulting services. The cost of providing professional services is significantly higher as a percentage of the related revenues than for our subscription services due to the direct labor costs and costs of third-party subcontractors. Operating Expenses Research and Development. Research and development expenses consist primarily of employee-related expenses, hosted infrastructure costs, and allocated overhead. We continue to focus our research and development efforts on our platforms, including adding new features and applications and increasing the functionality and enhancing the ease of use of our cloud-based applications. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of employee-related expenses, sales commissions, marketing program costs, amortization expense associated with purchased intangibles related to our customer contracts, customer relationships and brand development, travel-related expenses and allocated overhead. Marketing program costs include advertising, customer events, corporate communications, brand awareness, and product marketing activities. Sales commissions are costs of obtaining new customer contracts and are capitalized and then amortized over a period of benefit that we have determined to be three years. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses consist of employee-related expenses for our executive, finance and accounting, legal, employee success, management information systems personnel, and other administrative employees. In addition, general and administrative expenses include fees related to third-party legal counsel, fees related to third-party accounting, tax and audit services, other corporate expenses, and allocated overhead. Other Income, Net Other income, net, consists primarily of interest income, amortization of premiums paid or accretion of discounts on investments, and transaction gains or losses on foreign currency, net of hedging costs. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists of federal, state, and local income taxes in the United States and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions. See note 8 of the notes to our consolidated financial statements. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 38 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Pronouncements See note 1 of the notes to our consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. Results of Operations The following tables set forth selected consolidated statements of operations data and such data as a percentage of total revenues for each of the periods indicated: Fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Data: Revenues: Subscription services $ 2,284,659 $ 1,901,593 Professional services and other 461,960 462,080 Total revenues 2,746,619 2,363,673 Cost of revenues (1): Cost of subscription services 323,070 290,577 Cost of professional services and other 376,566 386,714 Total cost of revenues 699,636 677,291 Gross profit 2,046,983 1,686,382 Operating expenses (1): Research and development 693,078 629,031 Sales and marketing 396,726 381,472 General and administrative 265,744 246,545 Total operating expenses 1,355,548 1,257,048 Operating income 691,435 429,334 Other income, net 227,946 158,689 Income before income taxes 919,381 588,023 Income tax provision 205,243 62,318 Net income $ 714,138 $ 525,705 (1) Includes stock-based compensation as follows: Cost of revenues: Cost of subscription services $ 6,591 $ 6,483 Cost of professional services and other 51,377 53,237 Research and development 185,901 172,876 Sales and marketing 90,178 90,865 General and administrative 103,303 70,272 Total stock-based compensation $ 437,350 $ 393,733 Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2025 and 2024 The following is a discussion of our results of operations for the year ended January 31, 2025 compared to the year ended January 31, 2024. For a discussion of our results of operations for the year ended January 31, 2024 compared to the year ended January 31, 2023, please refer to Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2024, which is hereby incorporated by reference. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 39 Table of Contents Revenues Fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 2024 % Change (dollars in thousands) Revenues: Subscription services $ 2,284,659 $ 1,901,593 20% Professional services and other 461,960 462,080 % Total revenues $ 2,746,619 $ 2,363,673 16% Percentage of revenues: Subscription services 83 % 80 % Professional services and other 17 20 Total revenues 100 % 100 % Total revenues for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 increased $383 million, all of which was from growth in subscription services revenues. The increase in subscription services revenues consisted of $274 million of subscription services revenue attributable to R&D Solutions and $109 million of subscription services revenue attributable to Commercial Solutions. The increase in subscription services revenue attributable to R&D solutions was primarily due to expanding use of Veeva Development Cloud products by both existing and new customers. The increase in subscription services revenue attributable to Commercial Solutions was primarily due to expanding use of our Veeva Commercial Cloud products by both existing and new customers and, to a lesser extent, due to higher prices in connection with our annual inflation adjustment. The geographic mix of subscription services revenues was 59% from North America, 28% from Europe, and 13% from other locations, primarily Asia Pacific, for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, as compared to 58% from North America, 27% from Europe, and 15% from other locations, primarily Asia Pacific, for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024. Professional services and other revenues for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 remained flat compared to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024 due to a decline in implementation services, offset by an increase in business consulting services. The geographic mix of professional services and other revenues was 60% from North America, 33% from Europe, and 7% from other locations, primarily Asia Pacific, for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, as compared to 61% from North America, 32% from Europe, and 7% from other locations, primarily Asia Pacific, for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 2024 % Change (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenues: Cost of subscription services $ 323,070 $ 290,577 11% Cost of professional services and other 376,566 386,714 (3)% Total cost of revenues $ 699,636 $ 677,291 3% Gross margin percentage: Subscription services 86 % 85 % Professional services and other 18 % 16 % Total gross margin percentage 75 % 71 % Gross profit $ 2,046,983 $ 1,686,382 21% Cost of revenues for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 increased $22 million, comprising a $32 million increase in cost of subscription services, partially offset by a $10 million decrease in cost of professional services and other. The increase in cost of subscription services was primarily due to an increase of $21 million related to computing infrastructure costs, which was driven by an increase in both the number of end users and the volume of activity by end users of our subscription services. The decrease in cost of professional services and other was mainly due to lower utilization of third-party services, and reduction in employee related costs in our implementation and deployment-related activities. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 40 Table of Contents We expect cost of subscription services to increase in absolute dollars in the near term due to increased usage of our subscription services. Operating Expenses and Operating Margin Operating expenses include research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses. We expect operating expenses to increase in the near term, primarily due to employee compensation-related costs. Research and Development Fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 2024 % Change (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 693,078 $ 629,031 10% Percentage of total revenues 25 % 27 % Research and development expenses for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 increased $64 million due to an increase of $46 million in employee compensation-related costs and an increase of $16 million in technology and infrastructure costs. The increase in employee compensation-related costs was primarily driven by an increase in headcount and the increase in technology and infrastructure costs was primarily driven by higher hosting fees. The expansion of our headcount in research and development and the increased technology and infrastructure costs were to support development work for the products that we offer or may offer in the future. We expect research and development expenses to increase in the near term, primarily due to employee compensation-related costs and hosting fees as we continue to invest in our product offerings. Sales and Marketing Fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 2024 % Change (dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 396,726 $ 381,472 4% Percentage of total revenues 14 % 16 % Sales and marketing expenses for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 increased $15 million, primarily due to an increase of $6 million in employee compensation-related costs and an increase of $4 million in travel costs. The increase in employee compensation-related costs was primarily driven by the increase in headcount during the period to support our sales and marketing efforts associated with our product offerings. We expect sales and marketing expenses to increase in the near term, primarily due to employee compensation-related costs and the increase in marketing program costs related to events. General and Administrative Fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 2024 % Change (dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 265,744 $ 246,545 8% Percentage of total revenues 10 % 10 % General and administrative expenses for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 increased $19 million, primarily due to an increase of $34 million in employee compensation-related costs, partially offset by a reduction of $10 million in legal fees. The increase in employee compensation-related costs was primarily driven by stock-based compensation related to the equity grant to our Chief Executive Officer in June 2024. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 41 Table of Contents We expect an increase in general and administrative expenses in the near term, primarily related to the stock-based compensation associated with the equity grant to our Chief Executive Officer discussed above. Other Income, Net Fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 2024 % Change (dollars in thousands) Other income, net $ 227,946 $ 158,689 44% Other income, net, for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 increased $69 million due to an increase in interest income from higher investment asset balances and higher yields from investments. Foreign Currency We experience foreign currency fluctuations due to the periodic re-measurement of balances that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entities in which they are recorded. The results of operations and cash flows are also subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly in the Euro, Japanese Yen, Canadian Dollar, Great British Pound Sterling, and Chinese Yuan. Provision for Income Taxes Fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 2024 % Change (dollars in thousands) Income before income taxes $ 919,381 $ 588,023 56% Income tax provision $ 205,243 $ 62,318 229% Effective tax rate 22.3 % 10.6 % The provision for income taxes differs from the tax computed at the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to state taxes, tax credits, equity compensation, and foreign income subject to taxation in the United States. Future tax rates could be affected by changes in tax laws and regulations or by rulings in tax related litigation, as may be applicable. During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, as compared to the prior fiscal year, our effective tax rate increased primarily due to the reduced excess tax benefits related to equity compensation. The decrease in excess tax benefits during the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 was primarily due to stock option exercises by our Chief Executive Officer in the prior year and none in the current year. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In our public disclosures, we have provided non-GAAP measures, which we define as financial information that has not been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or GAAP. In addition to our GAAP measures, we use these non-GAAP financial measures internally for budgeting and resource allocation purposes and in analyzing our financial results. For the reasons set forth below, we believe that excluding the following items provides information that is helpful in understanding our operating results, evaluating our future prospects, comparing our financial results across accounting periods, and comparing our financial results to our peers, many of which provide similar non-GAAP financial measures. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 42 Table of Contents Excess tax benefits. Excess tax benefits from employee stock plans are dependent on previously agreed-upon equity grants to our employees, vesting of those grants, stock price, and exercise behavior of our employees, which can fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Because these fluctuations are not directly related to our business operations, we exclude excess tax benefits for our internal management reporting processes. Our management also finds it useful to exclude excess tax benefits when assessing the level of cash provided by operating activities. Given the nature of the excess tax benefits, we believe excluding it allows investors to make meaningful comparisons between our operating cash flows from quarter to quarter and those of other companies. Stock-based compensation expenses. We exclude stock-based compensation expenses primarily because they are non-cash expenses that we exclude from our internal management reporting processes. We also find it useful to exclude these expenses when we assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses and resource allocations when budgeting, planning, and forecasting future periods. Moreover, because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of award types that companies can use, we believe excluding stock-based compensation expenses allows investors to make meaningful comparisons between our recurring core business operating results and those of other companies. Amortization of purchased intangibles. We incur amortization expense for purchased intangible assets in connection with acquisitions of certain businesses and technologies. Amortization of intangible assets is a non-cash expense and is inconsistent in amount and frequency because it is significantly affected by the timing, size of acquisitions, and the inherent subjective nature of purchase price allocations. Because these costs have already been incurred and cannot be recovered, and are non-cash expenses, we exclude these expenses for internal management reporting processes. We also find it useful to exclude these charges when assessing the appropriate level of various operating expenses and resource allocations when budgeting, planning, and forecasting future periods. Investors should note that the use of intangible assets contributed to our revenues earned during the periods presented and will contribute to our future period revenues as well. Litigation settlement. We exclude costs related to the settlement of certain litigation matters because they are non-recurring and outside the ordinary course of business. Because these costs are unrelated to our day-to-day business operations, we believe excluding them enables more consistent evaluation of our operating results. Income tax effects on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses. The income tax effects that are excluded relate to the imputed tax impact on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses due to stock-based compensation and purchased intangibles for GAAP and non-GAAP measures. Limitations on the Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures There are limitations to using non-GAAP financial measures because non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures provided by other companies. The non-GAAP financial measures are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. In addition, they are subject to inherent limitations as they reflect the exercise of judgments by management about which items are adjusted to calculate our non-GAAP financial measures. We compensate for these limitations by analyzing current and future results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis and also by providing GAAP measures in our public disclosures. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. We encourage investors and others to review our financial information in its entirety, not to rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business, and to view our non-GAAP financial measures in conjunction with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 43 Table of Contents The following table reconciles the specific items excluded from GAAP metrics in the calculation of non-GAAP metrics for the periods shown below: Fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities on a GAAP basis $ 1,090,051 $ 911,339 Excess tax benefits from employee stock plans (8,932) (71,049) Net cash provided by operating activities on a non-GAAP basis $ 1,081,119 $ 840,290 Net cash used in investing activities on a GAAP basis $ (700,138) $ (1,076,351) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities on a GAAP basis $ 26,115 $ (16,188) Operating income on a GAAP basis $ 691,435 $ 429,334 Stock-based compensation expense 437,350 393,733 Amortization of purchased intangibles 18,558 19,459 Litigation settlement 5,000 Operating income on a non-GAAP basis $ 1,152,343 $ 842,526 Net income on a GAAP basis $ 714,138 $ 525,705 Stock-based compensation expense 437,350 393,733 Amortization of purchased intangibles 18,558 19,459 Litigation settlement 5,000 Income tax effect on non-GAAP adjustments (1) (84,618) (147,937) Net income on a non-GAAP basis $ 1,090,428 $ 790,960 Diluted net income per share on a GAAP basis $ 4.32 $ 3.22 Stock-based compensation expense 2.65 2.41 Amortization of purchased intangibles 0.11 0.12 Litigation settlement 0.03 Income tax effect on non-GAAP adjustments (1) (0.51) (0.91) Diluted net income per share on a non-GAAP basis $ 6.60 $ 4.84 (1) For the fiscal years ended January 31, 2025 and 2024, we used an estimated annual effective non-GAAP tax rate of 21%. Liquidity and Capital Resources Fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 2024 2023 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,090,051 $ 911,339 $ 780,470 Net cash used in investing activities (700,138) (1,076,351) (1,007,683) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 26,115 (16,188) (19,376) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (1,735) (1,780) (4,986) Net change in cash and cash equivalents $ 414,293 $ (182,980) $ (251,575) Our principal sources of liquidity continue to be comprised of our existing cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments. As of January 31, 2025, our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments totaled $5.2 billion, of which $50 million represented cash and cash equivalents held outside of the United States. Our primary use of cash is payment of our operating costs, which consist primarily of employee-related expenses, such as compensation and benefits, investments in our information technology infrastructure, and general operating expenses for marketing, facilities, and overhead costs. Long-term cash requirements for items other than normal operating expenses could include the following: the acquisition of businesses, or technologies complementary to our business, and capital expenditures. Our non-U.S. cash and cash equivalents are not considered indefinitely reinvested outside the United States, except in certain designated jurisdictions. As of January 31, 2025, we have not recorded any taxes, such as withholding taxes, associated with the foreign earnings that are indefinitely reinvested outside of the United States. Under currently enacted tax laws, if we were to choose to repatriate the funds we have designated as indefinitely Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 44 Table of Contents reinvested outside the United States, such amounts may be subject to certain jurisdictional taxes (e.g., withholding taxes). We have financed our operations primarily through cash generated from operations. We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs over at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including our growth rate, subscription renewal activity, the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the ongoing investments in technology infrastructure, the introduction of new and enhanced solutions, and the continuing market acceptance of our solutions. We may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services and technologies, and intellectual property rights. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing for those arrangements or for other reasons. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, operating results, and financial condition would be adversely affected. The following is a discussion of our cash flows for the year ended January 31, 2025 compared to the year ended January 31, 2024. For a discussion of our cash flows for the year ended January 31, 2024 compared to the year ended January 31, 2023, please refer to Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2024, which is hereby incorporated by reference. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Our largest source of operating cash inflows is cash collections from our customers for subscription services. We also generate significant cash flows from our professional services arrangements. The first quarter of our fiscal year is seasonally the strongest quarter for cash inflows due to the collections from our annual subscription billings. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for employee-related expenditures, expenses related to our computing infrastructure (including Amazon Web Services and Salesforce, Inc.), building infrastructure costs (including leases for office space), and fees for third-party legal counsel and accounting services. Note that our net income reflects the impact of excess tax benefits related to equity compensation. Net cash provided by operating activities was $1,090 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 compared to $911 million provided by operating activities for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024. The $179 million increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to increased sales and the related cash collections, partially offset by increased expenses. In the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, cash payments for income taxes in relation to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, which eliminated the option to deduct research and development expenditures and required taxpayers to capitalize and amortize them over five or fifteen years, reduced our cash flows from operating activities. The requirement may also impact our cash flows from operating activities in future periods, the amounts and specific periods of which we are unable to estimate at this time. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Investing activities primarily relate to cash used for the purchase of marketable securities, net of maturities, as well as capital expenditures. Net cash used in investing activities was $700 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 compared to $1,076 million used in investing activities for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024. The $376 million decrease in cash used in investing activities was mainly due to the increase in proceeds from maturities and sales of short-term investments, and the decrease in purchases of short-term investments. Cash Flows from Financing Activities The cash flows from financing activities relate primarily to stock option exercises offset by taxes paid on behalf of employees related to the net share settlement of restricted stock units (RSUs). Net cash provided by financing activities was $26 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 compared to $16 million used in financing activities for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024. The $42 million change in cash Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 45 Table of Contents provided by financing activities was related to an increase of $43 million in proceeds from employee stock option exercises. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). In the preparation of these consolidated financial statements, we are required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe that of our significant accounting policies, which are described in note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements, the following accounting policies involve a greater degree of judgment and complexity. Accordingly, these are the policies we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Revenue Recognition We derive our revenues primarily from subscription services and professional services. Some of our contracts with customers contain multiple performance obligations. The transaction price is allocated to the distinct performance obligations on a relative standalone selling price basis. Significant judgment is sometimes required in developing an estimate of the standalone selling price for each distinct performance obligation based on our overall pricing objectives, market conditions, and other factors, including other groupings such as customer type and geography. The standalone selling prices of our distinct performance obligations are reviewed on a periodic basis or when there are significant changes in facts and circumstances. Our pricing objectives, market conditions, or other factors may change in the future, resulting in changes to standalone selling prices that could impact the timing or amount of revenue recognition. Business Combinations and Valuation of Acquired Intangible Assets We allocate the purchase price of acquired companies to tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. The purchase price allocation process requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions with respect to the valuation of intangible assets. Examples of critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets we have acquired or may acquire in the future include but are not limited to future expected cash flows, future revenue growth, margins, customer retention rates, technology life, royalty rates, expected use of acquired assets, and discount rates. These factors are also considered in determining the useful life of the acquired intangible assets. These estimates are based in part on historical experience, market conditions, and information obtained from management of the acquired companies and are inherently uncertain. Goodwill represents the future economic benefits arising from other assets acquired in a business combination that are not individually identified and separately recorded.