Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statement made by us in this Form 10-K speaks only as of the date on which it is made. Except as required by law, we disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements publicly, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. As used in this Form 10-K, the terms Veeva, Registrant, we, us, and our mean Veeva Systems Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise. Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Veeva is a leading provider of industry cloud solutions for the global life sciences industry. We were founded in 2007 on the premise that industry-specific cloud solutions could best address the operating challenges and regulatory requirements of life sciences companies. Our products are designed to meet the unique needs of our customers and their most strategic business functionsfrom research and development (R&D) to commercialization. Our products address a broad range of needsincluding multichannel customer relationship management (CRM), content management, master data management, and data regarding healthcare professionals and organizationsand are designed to help life sciences companies bring products to market faster and more efficiently, market and sell more effectively, and maintain compliance with government regulations. Customer success is one of our core values, and our focus on it has allowed us to deepen and expand our strategic relationships with customers over time. Because of our industry focus, we have a unique, in-depth perspective into the needs and best practices of life sciences companies. This allows us to develop targeted solutions, quickly adapt to regulatory changes, and incorporate highly relevant enhancements into our existing solutions at a rapid pace. Our goal is to become the most strategic technology partner to the life sciences industry and achieve long-term leadership with our solutions that support the R&D and commercial functions of life sciences companies. Our commercial solutions help life sciences companies achieve better, more intelligent engagement with healthcare professionals and healthcare organizations across multiple communication channels, including face-to-face, email, and web. Our R&D solutions for the clinical, regulatory, quality, and, when available, safety functions help life sciences companies streamline their end-to-end product development processes to increase operational efficiency and maintain regulatory compliance throughout the product lifecycle. We are now also bringing the benefits of our content management solutions to a new set of customers in process and discrete manufacturing, consumer packaged goods, and highly regulated services industries. We believe that the ability of our solutions to meet the demanding business and compliance requirements of life sciences companies translates well into many other highly regulated industries. Our application currently offered to companies outside of life sciences is designed to help customers efficiently manage critical regulated processes and content in a compliant way and to enable secure collaboration across internal and external stakeholders, including outsourcing partners and vendors. Executing in the Veeva Way Fundamental to our business model is what we call The Veeva Way . The Veeva Way is key to our disciplined approach to achieve our goal of long-term leadership in each of the product markets we serve. We start with a focus on addressing clear and correct target markets . Those are large product markets in which the problem being addressed by our solution is strategic to the businesses of our customers and in which we believe Veeva can become the leader over the long-term if we execute well. We embrace the concept of running to complexity , an approach in which we strive to solve the most important and challenging information technology problems our customers face. We focus on delivering product excellence and cloud innovation . Our product development process begins with assembling and investing in strong product teams focused on building deep, best-in-class applications in every product market we serve. Through innovative cloud technology, we also aim to eliminate disparate systems by delivering unified application suites that work together on a common platform. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 1 Table of Contents We strive to forge strong relationships with our customers and focus on customer success . When we enter a new product market, we begin with a small number of early adopter customers. We focus on learning from these early adopters and ensuring that they are successful with our products. Once successful, our early adopters have developed into vocal advocates, enabling our reference selling model. Finally, our goal is to drive strong growth and profitability through highly efficient, targeted sales and marketing, disciplined product planning, and profitable professional services. Our strong growth and profitability has allowed us to make ongoing investments for continued product innovation in our existing markets, and we believe provides us with the resources to continue to invest in new market opportunities. Our Industry Cloud Solutions for Life Sciences Our industry cloud solutions for the life sciences industry are grouped into two key product areasVeeva Commercial Cloud and Veeva Vaultand are designed to address pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and medical device companies most pressing strategic needs in their commercial and R&D operations as illustrated in the graphic below. Veeva Commercial Cloud Veeva Commercial Cloud is a suite of multichannel CRM applications, territory allocation and alignment applications, master data management applications, and customer reference and key opinion leader data and services, designed to help companies drive smarter, more proactive engagement with healthcare professionals and healthcare organizations and ensure compliance . 2 Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K Table of Contents Our multichannel CRM applications that are part of Veeva Commercial Cloud include: Veeva CRM and Veeva Medical CRM enable customer-facing employees, such as life sciences sales representatives, key account managers, and scientific liaisons, to manage, track, and optimize interactions with healthcare professionals and healthcare organizations utilizing a single, integrated solution. With multichannel Veeva CRM, customers have an end-to-end solution for the planning and coordination of their teams across all key channels, including face-to-face, email, and web. Veeva CRM supports the life sciences industrys unique commercial business processes and regulatory compliance requirements with highly specialized functionality, such as prescription drug sample management with electronic signature capture, the management of complex affiliations between physicians and the organizations where they work, and the capture of medical inquiries from physicians. Powered by data science, Veeva CRM Suggestions is a dashboard included within Veeva CRM that offers life sciences sales representatives recommendations on the next best action and right channel for the next interaction with their customers. Our next-generation Sunrise user interface and real-time architecture for Veeva CRM provides an intuitive, adaptive design for optimal user experience across multiple devices and platforms. Veeva CRM MyInsights provides a data visualization tool that delivers tailored, actionable insights to life sciences sales representatives in Veeva CRM. Veeva CLM provides capabilities for life sciences sales representatives to present digital marketing content on a mobile device, such as an iPad, during in-person interactions with healthcare professionals. Veeva CRM Approved Email enables the management, delivery, and tracking of emails from life sciences sales representatives to healthcare professionals, while maintaining regulatory compliance. Veeva CRM Events Management enables the planning, management, and execution of group meetings with healthcare professionals and helps life sciences companies track and manage spending in order to meet transparency reporting requirements. Veeva CRM Engage delivers the ability to interact with healthcare professionals for online meetingsusing Veeva CRM Engage Meeting and provides closed-loop marketing capabilities for self-directed interactions with healthcare professionals via the web with Veeva CRM Engage for Portals . Veeva CRM Engage Webinar allows companies to execute virtual events in a compliant way and is also built to work with Veeva CRM Events Management. Veeva Align enables life sciences companies to perform fast, accurate sales territory alignments. Through native integration with Veeva CRM, Veeva Align allows seamless field collaboration to increase accuracy and minimize hand-offs. Our data solutions that are part of Veeva Commercial Cloud include: Veeva OpenData provides healthcare professional and healthcare organization data that includes demographic information, license information and status, specialty information, affiliations, and other key data that is crucial to customer engagement and compliance. In the life sciences industry, this category of data is referred to as customer reference data or customer data. We also offer outsourced data stewardship services to our customers. Veeva Oncology Link is a single source of continuously updated profile and market intelligence data on key scientific leaders in oncology. Veeva Oncology Link associates thousands of global experts with millions of activities, including publications, clinical trials, and events, into a single source of data on oncology experts. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 3 Table of Contents Our m aster data management solutions that are part of Veeva Commercial Cloud include: Veeva Network Customer Master is an industry-specific, customer master software solution that de-duplicates, standardizes, and cleanses healthcare professional and healthcare organization data from multiple systems and data sources to arrive at a single, consolidated customer master record. Veeva Network Customer Master comes pre-configured with a data model that is specific to life sciences and supports global harmonization, as well as country, market, and regional data specifications, within a single system. Veeva Network Product Master de-duplicates, standardizes, and cleanses life sciences product data from multiple systems and data sources to arrive at a single, consolidated product master record for enterprise use. Veeva Vault Veeva Vault is a unified suite of cloud-based, enterprise content management applications, all built on our proprietary Veeva Vault Platform . Our Veeva Vault applications address the content management requirements for our customers commercial functions, including medical and sales and marketing, and key R&D functions, including clinical, regulatory, quality, and, when available, safety. Veeva Vaults unique ability to handle content and data allows us to build content- and data-centric applications to help customers streamline end-to-end business processes and eliminate manual processes and siloed systems. Veeva Vault can be deployed one application at a time or as an integrated content management solution with multiple applications that enables our customers to unify and manage important documents and related data in a single, global system. Our Veeva Vault applications for life sciences are organized into two product areas: Veeva Vault for Commercial Content Management and Veeva Development Cloud. Veeva Vault for Commercial Content Management The increasing use of content in the sales and marketing efforts of life sciences companies requires rapid creation of materials and better management of commercial content, with continuous strict regulatory compliance across channels and geographies. The Veeva Vault applications primarily used by the commercial and medical departments of life sciences companies to manage commercial and medical content include: Veeva Vault PromoMats combines digital asset management with content review and distribution capabilities through which life sciences companies can manage the end-to-end process for creation, review, approval, claims tracking, multichannel distribution, expiration, and withdrawal of commercial content across the digital supply chain. Veeva Vault MedComms enables life sciences companies to streamline the creation, approval, and delivery of medical content and create and maintain a single, validated source of medical content across multiple channels and geographies. Medical content is used by life sciences companies for verbal and written communications with healthcare professionals and patients, including approved answers to questions received through a call center or company website. 4 Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K Table of Contents Veeva Development Cloud Veeva Development Cloud brings together application suites for the clinical, regulatory, quality, and, when available, safety functions of life sciences companies on the Veeva Vault Platform to enable companies to streamline product development lifecycles and eliminate manual processes and siloed systems. These applications help life sciences companies achieve greater efficiency and agility in product development, while maintaining regulatory compliance. Our Veeva Development Cloud applications each have a unique data model, deep functionality, and pre-defined workflows to support industry-specific processes. The Veeva Development Cloud application suites are: Veeva Vault Clinical Veeva Vault Clinical is the industrys first cloud application suite that combines electronic data capture (EDC), clinical trial management (CTMS), electronic trial master file (eTMF), and study start-up applications to unify clinical data management and clinical operations . Veeva Vault EDC helps life sciences companies more easily design studies, manage amendments, and improve the speed and quality of data collection in clinical trials. Its modern cloud architecture integrates with other clinical applications and scales to manage increasing volumes of data. Vault EDC helps clinical trial teams to build and execute studies with greater efficiency to help speed clinical trials. Veeva Vault CTMS is a clinical trial management application that helps unify information and documentation for a single source of truth across clinical operations. With Vault CTMS, trial sponsors, contract research organizations, and investigators can have one source for clinical master data with a single system of record for study, study country, and study site information. This helps reduce complexity, increase transparency, and speed time to market. Veeva Vault eTMF is an electronic trial master file application that manages the repository of documents for active and archived clinical trials for improved inspection readiness, visibility, and control. Vault eTMF enables collaboration between the life sciences company sponsoring the trial and outsourced partners, such as contract research organizations. Veeva Vault Study Startup helps life sciences companies to more efficiently manage the process of activating investigator sites for clinical trials. Veeva Vault RIM Veeva Vault RIM is a suite of applications that provides fully integrated regulatory information management (RIM) capabilities on a single cloud platform. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 5 Table of Contents V eeva Vault Registrations enables life sciences companies to manage, track, and report product and registration information worldwide, including registration status, variations, health authority questions and commitments, and certification requests. Veeva Vault Submissions brings together submission content planning and authoring in a single application to help life sciences companies gather and organize documents and content, according to industry-accepted guidelines, that should be included in a regulatory submission to a healthcare authority, such as the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Veeva Vault Submissions Archive stores published submissions and correspondence in a secure, globally accessible repository. Veeva Vault Submissions Publishing provides an integrated solution for dossier publishing that helps speed the preparation and processing time of regulatory submissions. We expect Vault Submissions Publishing to be available to customers within the next year. Veeva Vault Quality Veeva Vault Quality is the industrys first unified suite of quality applications for life sciences, contract manufacturers, and suppliers to seamlessly manage quality processes and content in a single platform for greater visibility and control. Veeva Vault QualityDocs enables the creation, review, approval, distribution, and management of controlled documents, such as standard operating procedures, manufacturing recipes, and specifications. Veeva Vault QMS is a quality management solution that provides best practice processes for deviations, internal and external audits, complaints, lab investigations, change controls, corrective and preventative actions, and proactive management initiatives. Veeva Vault Safety Veeva Vault Safety consists of applications that will help the pharmacovigilance and safety departments of life sciences companies increase efficiency and maintain compliance in the management of safety processes. Vault Safety is planned to be available to customers in 2019. Solutions for Regulated Industries Outside of Life Sciences Our initial application for regulated industries outside of life sciences addresses quality and document management. Veeva Vault QualityOne is a unified, cloud solution that offers a robust quality management system and document management system in a single application. Professional Services and Support We also offer professional services to help customers maximize the value of our solutions. Our service teams possess life sciences industry expertise, project management capabilities, and deep technical acumen that we believe our customers highly value. Our professional services teams work with our systems integrator partners to deliver projects. We offer the following professional services: implementation and deployment planning and project management; requirements analysis, solution design and configuration; systems environment management and deployment services; services focused on advancing or transforming business and operating processes related to Veeva solutions; technical consulting services related to data migration and systems integrations; 6 Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K Table of Contents training on our solutions; and ongoing managed services, such as outsourced systems administration. We organize our professional services teams by specific expertise so that they can provide advice and support for best industry practices in the research and development and commercial departments of our customers. Our global systems integrator partners also deliver implementation and selected support services to customers who wish to utilize them. Our systems integrator partners include Accenture, Cognizant Technology Solutions, Deloitte Consulting, and other life sciences specialty firms. Our Customers As of January 31, 2018, we served 625 customers. For an explanation of how we define current customers, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsComponents of Results of Operations. We deliver solutions to companies throughout the life sciences industry, including pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and medical product companies, contract sales organizations, and contract research organizations. Our customers range from the largest global pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies such as Bayer AG, Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, Eli Lilly and Company, Gilead Sciences, Inc., Merck & Co., Inc., and Novartis International AG, to smaller pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including Alkermes plc, Grupo Ferrer Internacional S.A., Ironwood Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and LEO Pharma A/S. For our fiscal years ended January 31, 2016, 2017, and 2018, we did not have any single customer that represented more than 10% of our total revenues. For a summary of our financial information by geographic location, see note 13 of the notes to our consolidated financial statements. Our Employees We believe we provide employees a unique opportunity to develop and sell world-class, cloud-based applications and platforms within a specific industry. Historically, software developers had to choose between developing platforms for a broad but generic set of customers and building industry-specific solutions with limited further applicability. Our industry cloud approach empowers developers to build important applications and platforms that can become the standard in our industry while enabling sales personnel to sell a growing portfolio of applications. We believe that this unique opportunity allows us to continue to attract top talent for our product development and sales efforts. As of January 31, 2018, we employed 2,171 people. We also engage temporary employees and consultants. None of our employees is represented by a labor union. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and we consider our relations with our employees to be very good. Technology Infrastructure and Operations Our solutions utilize a pod-based architecture in multiple regions that allow for scalability, operational simplicity and security. Our products are hosted in data centers located in the United States, the European Union, and Japan. We utilize third-parties to provide our computing infrastructure and manage the infrastructure on which our solutions operate. For example, for Veeva CRM and certain of our multichannel CRM applications, we utilize the hosting infrastructure provided by salesforce.com. For our Veeva Vault applications, Veeva Network applications, and certain other Veeva Commercial Cloud applications, we utilize Amazon Web Services. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 7 Table of Contents Our infrastructure providers employ advanced measures to ensure physical integrity and security, including redundant power and cooling systems, fire and flood prevention mechanisms, continual security coverage, biometric readers at entry points and anonymous exteriors. We also implement various disaster recovery measures such that data loss would be minimized in the event of a single data center disaster. We architect our solutions using redundant configurations to minimize service interruptions . We continually monitor our solutions for any sign of failure or pending failure, and we take preemptive action to attempt to minimize or prevent downtime. Our technology is based on multitenant architectures that apply common, consistent management practices for all customers using our solutions. We enable multiple customers to share the same version of our solutions while securely partitioning their respective data. Portions of our multichannel customer relationship management applications are built on the Salesforce1 Platform. Veeva Vault, Veeva Network, and portions of our other Commercial Cloud applications are built upon our own proprietary platforms. Sales and Marketing We sell our solutions through our direct sales organization. In large life sciences companies, the R&D and commercial business functions commonly have separate technology and business decision makers. Accordingly, we market and sell our solutions to align with the distinct characteristics of those decision makers. We have distinct R&D and commercial sales teams, which we further segment to focus on selling to large global life sciences companies and smaller life sciences companies. We also have a distinct sales team for our sales efforts to companies in regulated industries outside of life sciences. Our Relationship with salesforce.com Veeva CRM and certain of our related multichannel CRM applications are developed on or utilize the Salesforce1 Platform of salesforce.com, inc. We are salesforce.coms preferred and recommended Salesforce1 Platform application provider of sales automation solutions for drug makers in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry, or the pharma/biotech industry. Our agreement provides that, subject to certain exceptions and specified remedies for breach, salesforce.com will not position, develop, promote, invest in or acquire applications directly competitive to the Veeva CRM application for sales automation that directly target the pharma/biotech industry. Our agreement with salesforce.com does not restrict a salesforce.com customers ability (or the ability of salesforce.com on behalf of a specific salesforce.com customer) to customize or configure the Salesforce1 Platform. However, our agreement restricts salesforce.com from competing with us with respect to sales opportunities for sales automation solutions for the pharma/biotech industry unless such competition has been pre-approved by salesforce.coms senior management based on certain criteria specified in the agreement. Our agreement also imposes certain limits on salesforce.com entering into arrangements similar to ours with other parties with respect to sales automation applications for the pharma/biotech industry. Our remedy for a breach of these commitments by salesforce.com would be to terminate the agreement, or continue the agreement but be released from our minimum order commitments described below from the date of salesforce.coms breach forward. Our agreement allows us to provide our customers with rights to the Salesforce1 Platform Unlimited Edition for use as combined with the proprietary aspects of certain of our multichannel CRM applications, and subject to salesforce.coms standard prior review and approval processes, to build additional applications on the Salesforce1 Platform. 8 Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K Table of Contents Under our agreement, salesforce.com provides the hosting infrastructure and data center for portions of our multichannel CRM applications, as well as the s ystem administration, configuration, reporting and other platform level functionality. In exchange, we pay salesforce.com a fee. Our current agreement with salesforce.com expires on September 1, 2025 and is renewable for five-year periods upon mutual agree ment. We are obligated to meet minimum order commitments of $500 million over the term of the agreement, including true-up payments if the orders we place with salesforce.com have not equaled or exceeded the following aggregate amounts within the timefra mes indicated: (i) $250 million from March 1, 2014 to September 1, 2020 and (ii) the full amount of $500 million by September 1, 2025. See note 11 to the notes to our consolidated financial statements for more information about our on-going minimum fee obl igation to salesforce.com. If either party elects not to renew the agreement or if the agreement is terminated by us as a result of salesforce.coms breach, the agreement provides for a five-year wind-down period in which we would be able to continue provi ding the Salesforce1 Platform as combined with the proprietary aspects of our solutions to our existing customers but would be limited with respect to the number of additional subscriptions we could sell to our existing customers. We believe that we have a mutually beneficial strategic relationship with salesforce.com. Quality and Compliance Our customers use our solutions for business activities that are subject to a complex regime of country- and region-specific healthcare laws and regulations across the globe. In order to best serve our customers, we must ensure that the data processed by our systems are accurate and secure and that they retain the level of confidentiality and privacy commensurate with the type of information managed. To comply with IT healthcare regulations and security and privacy regulations generally, industry-specific capabilities must be designed for and embedded in our solutions. Quality and Compliance Program To comply with IT healthcare regulations, certain capabilities such as robust audit trail tracking, compliant electronic signature capture, data encryption, and secure access controls must be designed for and embedded in our solutions. In addition to design requirements, our solutions must be thoroughly tested to comply with the regulations that apply to electronic record keeping systems for the life sciences industry, which include: Regulation Regulation Description 21 CFR 820.75 U.S. FDA device regulation on system validation 21 CFR 211.68 U.S. FDA pharma GMP regulation on system validation 21 CFR 11 U.S. FDA requirement for maintenance of electronic records EU Annex 11 EU GMP requirement for maintenance of electronic records 21 CFR 203 Drug sample tracking as required by the Prescription Drug Marketing Act PFSB Notification, No. 0401022 (Japan) Use of Electromagnetic Records and Electronic Signatures for Approval of, or License for, Drugs Each version of our solutions that are subject to regulations that require companies to maintain certain records and submit information to regulators as part of compliance verification undergoes validation testing against these and other relevant standards. Veeva develops a validation plan, performs installation qualification and operational qualification, and executes the protocols. The results of each validation are then reviewed and confirmed in a summary report by our quality and compliance team. We maintain a dedicated team of quality and compliance experts that manages our processes for meeting these requirements. The functions of this quality and compliance team include three separate domains: oversight of resource management, document management, computer validation, corrective and preventative action, and general quality oversight; oversight of audit and inspection management, supplier management, and regulatory intelligence; and Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 9 Table of Contents management of customer audits, which is often a required due diligen ce step in customer purchase decisions and which are performed from time to time by our existing customers. Veeva has designed and implemented a quality management system (QMS) that is aligned with our customers regulatory standards for IT compliance. Our QMS is maintained in our own Veeva Vault QualityDocs application and consists of the following: a comprehensive set of quality policies and procedures; an independent quality assurance function that oversees development and maintenance of our software; audit support of our customers regulatory obligation to perform due diligence on their suppliers; computer systems validation aligned with healthcare industry best practices as outlined in published regulatory standards; a resource management program to ensure employees have the requisite demonstrable level of education, experience, and training; and a risk management program to identify product realization and other business risks. Security Program Veevas global information security officer oversees an information security management system certified to ISO 27001 to ensure security controls conform to established standards across both product and infrastructure components. Our solutions vulnerability is tested using internal tools prior to release, and we employ a third party to perform penetration and vulnerability tests on our solutions on at least an annual basis. We also obtain independent third-party audit opinions related to security and availability annually, such as SOC 2, Type II reports and ISO 27001 attestation reports. Our global information security officer also oversees information security and security awareness training and security incident response processes. Privacy Program Our global data protection officer maintains a global privacy program aligned to industry standards and national regulations, including EU-U.S. and Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield frameworks and the European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). In addition, Veeva maintains privacy policies and procedures and provides role-based privacy awareness training. Veeva has maintained its EU-U.S. Privacy Shield certification since 2016 and Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield certification since 2017 in order to transfer and allow access of EU and Swiss personal data from the EU or Switzerland to the United States. Veeva also signs EU Standard Contractual Clauses with its customers who act as data controllers and exporters to facilitate international transfers of EU personal data. In the European Union, Veeva is a data controller for data used in Veeva OpenData and Veeva Oncology Link and a data processor for the rest of our products. Veeva is currently in compliance with the EU Data Protection Directive 95/46/EC, which will be superseded by GDPR on May 25, 2018. In the United States, Veeva also complies with the patient privacy rules under the U.S. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 that protect medical records and other personal health information by signing business associate agreements when requested by our customers. 10 Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K Table of Contents Research and Development Our R&D organization is responsible for the design, development, and testing of our solutions and applications. Based on customer feedback and needs, we focus our efforts on developing new solutions functionality, applications, and core technologies and further enhancing the usability, functionality, reliability, performance, and flexibility of existing solutions and applications. Research and development expenses were $66.0 million, $96.8 million and $132.1 million for our fiscal years ended January 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018, respectively. Competition The markets for our solutions are global, rapidly evolving, highly competitive and subject to changing regulations, advancing technology and shifting customer needs. The solutions and applications offered by our competitors vary in size, breadth, and scope. Our multichannel CRM applications compete with offerings from large global enterprise software vendors, such as Oracle Corporation and Microsoft Corporation, and also compete with life sciences-specific CRM providers, such as IQVIA Inc., formerly QuintilesIMS. We also compete with a number of vendors of cloud-based and on-premise CRM applications that address only a portion of the functionality of our CRM solutions. Our master data management solutions compete with master data solutions offered by vendors such as IBM Corporation, Informatica Corporation, IQVIA, and Reltio, Inc. Our data and data services offerings compete with IQVIA and many other data providers. Our Veeva Vault content management solutions compete with offerings from large global content management platform vendors such as Microsoft, OpenText Corporation and Oracle, and with offerings from life sciences specific providers, such as Medidata Solutions, Inc., PAREXEL International Corporation, IQVIA, BioClinica, Inc., and Sparta Technologies Ltd. We also compete with professional services companies that provide solutions on these platforms, such as DXC Technology Company. In the future, providers of horizontal cloud-based solutions and platforms, such as Box.com, Amazon Web Services, or Microsoft, and third parties that build on their platforms, may seek to compete with us. In addition, we have begun selling certain of our Veeva Vault applications to companies outside the life sciences industry. We have limited experience selling certain of our Veeva Vault applications to companies outside the life sciences industry, and, therefore, we anticipate having to compete with many existing solutions, including those listed above, custom-built software developed by third-party vendors or in-house by our potential customers and niche software providers. We may also face competition from custom-built software developed by third-party vendors or developed in-house by our potential customers, or from applications built by our customers or by third parties on behalf of our customers using commercially available software platforms that are provided by third parties. We may also face competition from companies that provide cloud-based solutions in different target or horizontal markets that may develop applications or work with companies that operate in our target markets. With the introduction of new technologies, we expect competition to intensify in the future, and we may face competition from new market entrants as well. In some cases, our competitors are well-established providers of competitive solutions and have long-standing relationships with many of our current and potential customers, including large pharmaceutical and emerging biopharmaceutical companies. Oracle and IQVIA, for example, each have greater name recognition, much longer operating histories, larger marketing budgets, and significantly greater resources than we do. Many of our competitors may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services than we are able to devote. Such competitors may be able to initiate or withstand substantial price competition and may offer solutions competitive to certain of our solutions on a standalone basis at a lower price or bundled as part of a larger product sale, including the bundling of software solutions and data. In addition, many of our competitors have established marketing relationships, access to larger customer bases and distribution agreements with consultants, system Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 11 Table of Contents integrators and resellers that we do not ha ve. Our competitors may also establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that may further enhance their product offerings or resources. In addition, in order to take advantage of customer demand for cloud-based solutions, such competitors may expand their cloud-based solutions through acquisitions and organic development or may seek to partner with other leading cloud providers. For instance, in October 2016, IMS Health Holding, Inc. and Quintiles Transnational Holdings Inc., a contract research organization, combined to form Quintiles IMS Holdings, Inc., which now operates under the name IQVIA. The combined entity competes with us in a number of product areas, including software solutions, data and data services. The impact of this transaction on our competitive environment is uncertain but increased competition from IQVIA could negatively impact our business. Additionally, IQVIA has partnered with Reltio to resell certain of Reltios master data management offerings, which could also negatively impact our business. We believe the principal competitive factors in our market include the following: level of customer satisfaction; regulatory compliance verification and functionality; domain expertise with respect to life sciences; ease of deployment and use of solutions and applications; breadth and depth of solution and application functionality; brand awareness and reputation; modern and adaptive technology platform; capability for customization, configurability, integration, security, scalability and reliability of applications; total cost of ownership; ability to innovate and respond to customer needs rapidly; size of customer base and level of user adoption; ability to secure the rights to load and process third party proprietary data licensed by customers; and ability to integrate with legacy enterprise infrastructures and third-party applications. We believe that we generally compete favorably on the basis of these factors and that the domain expertise required for developing and deploying successful solutions in the life sciences industry may hinder new entrants that are unable to invest the necessary capital to develop solutions that can address the functionality, requirements and regulatory compliance capabilities needed for the life sciences industry. Our ability to remain competitive will largely depend on our ongoing performance in the areas of solution and application development and customer support. 12 Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K Table of Contents Intellectual Property We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, copyrights and trademarks, as well as contractual protections, to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. We have developed a process for seeking patent protection for our technology innovations. As of January 31, 2018, we have secured 13 U.S. patents and two Japanese patents, which expire between May 2023 and December 2036, and we have 33 pending U.S. patent applications and seven pending international patent applications. Our patents and patent applications cover technology within the following of our product categories: Veeva Commercial Cloud, Veeva Vault Platform, Veeva Vault Clinical, and Veeva Vault RIM. We plan to continue expanding our patent portfolio. We require our employees, consultants and other third parties to enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements and control access to software, documentation and other proprietary information. Although we rely on our intellectual property rights, as well as contractual protections to establish and protect our proprietary rights, we believe that factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, creation of new features and functionality and frequent enhancements to our applications are essential to establishing and maintaining our technology leadership position as provider of software solutions and applications to the life sciences industry. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary technology and our intellectual property rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or obtain and use our technology to develop applications with the same functionality as our application. Policing unauthorized use of our technology and intellectual property rights is difficult, and protection of our rights through civil enforcement mechanisms may be expensive and time consuming. Companies in our industry often own a number of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement, misappropriation or other violations of intellectual property or other rights. We are currently engaged in legal proceedings with competitors in which the competitors are asserting trade secret misappropriation and other claims, and we may face new allegations in the future that we have infringed the patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights of other competitors or non-practicing entities. We expect that we and others in our industry will continue to be subject to third-party infringement claims by competitors as the functionality of applications in different industry segments overlaps, and by non-practicing entities. Any of these third parties might make a claim of infringement against us at any time. For example, see the description of our current litigations in note 11 of the notes to our consolidated financial statements. Corporate Information We were incorporated in the state of Delaware in January 2007 and changed our name to Veeva Systems Inc. from Verticals onDemand, Inc. in April 2009. Our principal executive offices are located at 4280 Hacienda Drive, Pleasanton, California 94588. Our telephone number is (925) 452-6500. Our website address is http://www.veeva.com. Information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K, and you should not consider information contained on our website to be part of this Form 10-K or in deciding whether to purchase shares of our Class A common stock. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on the Investors portion of our website at http://ir.veeva.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 13 Table of Contents I TEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our Class A common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below and in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, together with all of the other information in this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before investing in our Class A common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the price of our Class A common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry If our security measures are breached or unauthorized access to customer data is otherwise obtained, our solutions may be perceived as not being secure, customers may reduce the use of or stop using our solutions, and we may incur significant liabilities. Our solutions involve the storage and transmission of our customers proprietary information, including personal or identifying information regarding their employees and the medical professionals whom their sales personnel contact, sensitive proprietary data related to the regulatory submission process for new medical treatments, and other sensitive information, which may include personal health information. As a result, unauthorized access or security breaches as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance, or otherwise could result in the loss of information, inappropriate use of information, litigation, indemnity obligations, damage to our reputation, and other liability. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not identified until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Moreover, the detection, prevention, and remediation of known or unknown securities vulnerabilities, including those arising from third-party hardware or software, may result in additional direct or indirect costs and management time. Any or all of these issues could adversely affect our ability to attract new customers, cause existing customers to elect to not renew their subscriptions, result in reputational damage, or subject us to third-party lawsuits, regulatory fines, mandatory disclosures, or other action or liability, which could adversely affect our operating results. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover losses associated with such events, and in any case, such insurance may not cover all of the types of costs, expenses, and losses we could incur to respond to and remediate a security breach. A security breach of another significant provider of cloud-based solutions may also negatively impact the demand for our solutions. We expect the future growth rate of our revenues to decline. In our fiscal years ended January 31, 2016, 2017, and 2018, our total revenues grew by 31%, 33% and 26% respectively, as compared to total revenues from the prior fiscal years. In our fiscal years ended January 31, 2016, 2017, and 2018, our subscription revenues grew by 36%, 37% and 28% respectively, as compared to subscription revenues from the prior fiscal years. Please note that our total revenues and subscription revenues for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2017 included a full year of revenue contribution from the Zinc Ahead business, which we acquired in September 2015. We expect the growth rate of our total revenues and subscription revenues to decline in future periods, which may adversely impact the value of our Class A common stock. 14 Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K Table of Contents Our results may fluctuate from period to period, which could prevent us from meeting security analyst or investor expectations or our own guid ance and could cause the price of our Class A common stock to decline substantially. Our results of operations, including our revenues, gross margin, operating margin, profitability, cash flows, and deferred revenue, may vary from period to period for a variety of reasons, including those listed elsewhere in this Risk Factors section, and period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. Accordingly, our quarterly results should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Additionally, we issue guidance or provide commentary regarding our expectations for certain future financial results, including revenues, gross margin, operating margin, profitability, cash flows, and deferred revenue on both a near-term and long-term basis. Our guidance is based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that are subject to significant business, economic, and competitive uncertainties that are beyond our control and are based upon assumptions about future business and accounting decisions that may change or be wrong. Our guidance may prove to be incorrect, and actual results may differ from our guidance. Fluctuations in our results or failure to achieve security analyst or investor expectations or our guidance, even if not materially, could cause the price of our Class A common stock to decline substantially, and our investors could incur substantial losses. The markets in which we participate are highly competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. The markets for our solutions are highly competitive. Our multichannel CRM applications compete with offerings from large global enterprise software vendors, such as Oracle Corporation and Microsoft Corporation, and also compete with life sciences-specific CRM providers, such as IQVIA. We also compete with a number of vendors of cloud-based and on-premise CRM applications that address only a portion of the functionality of our CRM solutions. Our master data management solutions compete with master data solutions offered by vendors such as IBM Corporation, Informatica Corporation, IQVIA, and Reltio, Inc. Our data and data services offerings compete with IQVIA and many other data providers . Our Veeva Vault content management solutions compete with offerings from large global content management platform vendors such as Microsoft, OpenText Corporation and Oracle, and with offerings from life sciences specific providers, such as Medidata Solutions, Inc., PAREXEL International Corporation, IQVIA, BioClinica, Inc., and Sparta Technologies Ltd. We also compete with professional services companies that provide solutions on these platforms, such as DXC Technology Company. In the future, providers of horizontal cloud-based solutions and platforms, such as Box.com, Amazon Web Services, or Microsoft, or third parties that build on their platforms, may seek to compete with us. In addition, we have begun selling certain of our Veeva Vault applications to companies outside the life sciences industry. We have limited experience selling certain of our Veeva Vault applications to companies outside the life sciences industry, and, therefore, we anticipate having to compete with many existing solutions, including those listed above, custom-built software developed by third-party vendors or in-house by our potential customers, and niche software providers. We may also face competition from custom-built software developed by third-party vendors or developed in-house by our potential customers, or from applications built by our customers or by third parties on behalf of our customers using commercially available software platforms that are provided by third parties. We may also face competition from companies that provide cloud-based solutions in different target or horizontal markets that may develop applications or work with companies that operate in our target markets. With the introduction of new technologies, we expect competition to intensify in the future, and we may face competition from new market entrants as well. In some cases, our competitors are well-established providers of competitive solutions and have long-standing relationships with many of our current and potential customers, including large pharmaceutical and emerging biopharmaceutical companies. Oracle and IQVIA, for example, have greater name recognition, much longer operating histories, larger marketing budgets and significantly greater resources than we do. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 15 Table of Contents Many of our competitors may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of their products and services than we are able to devote. Such competitors may be able to initiate or withstand substantial price competition and may offer solutions competitive to certain of our solutions on a standalone basis at a lower price or bundled as part of a larger product sale, including the bundling of software solutions and data. In addition, many of our competitors have established marketing relationships, access to larger customer bases, and distribution agre ements with consultants, system integrators, and resellers that we do not have. Our competitors may also establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that may further enhance their product offerings or resources. In addition, in order to take advantage of customer demand for cloud-based solutions, such competitors may expand their cloud-based solutions through acquisitions and organic development or may seek to partner with other leading cloud providers. For instance, in Octobe r 2016, IMS Health Holding, Inc. and Quintiles Transnational Holdings Inc., a contract research organization, combined to form Quintiles IMS Holdings, Inc., which now operates under the name IQVIA. The combined entity competes with us in a number of produc t areas, including software solutions, data, and data services. The impact of this transaction on our competitive environment is uncertain but increased competition from IQVIA could negatively impact our business. If our competitors products, services or technologies become more accepted than our solutions, if they are successful in bringing their products or services to market earlier than we are, if their products or services are more technologically capable than ours, or if customers replace our solutions with custom-built software, then our revenues could be adversely affected. Pricing pressures and increased competition could result in reduced sales, reduced margins, losses or a failure to maintain or improve our competitive market position, any of which could adversely affect our business. For all of these reasons, we may not be able to compete favorably against our current and future competitors. If our newer solutions are not successfully adopted by new and existing customers, the growth rate of our revenues and operating results will be adversely affected. Our continued growth and profitability will depend on our ability to successfully develop and sell new solutions, including solutions we introduced relatively recently. Although certain Veeva Vault applications have begun to achieve meaningful market acceptance, it is uncertain whether these solutions will continue to grow as a percentage of revenues at a pace significant enough to support our expected growth. For instance, we have begun selling certain of our Veeva Vault applications to companies outside the life sciences industry, and we have begun selling new Veeva Vault applications, such as Veeva Vault EDC and Veeva Vault CTMS. We also recently announced our entrance into the pharmacovigilance and safety market with Veeva Vault Safety. We cannot be certain that our initiatives with respect to newer solutions and newer markets for our solutions will be successful. It may take us significant time, and we may incur significant expense, to effectively market and sell these solutions or to develop other new solutions and make enhancements to our existing solutions. If our newer solutions do not continue to gain traction in the market, or other solutions that we may develop and introduce in the future do not achieve market acceptance in a timely manner, the growth rate of our revenues and operating results will be adversely affected. 16 Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K Table of Contents Our revenues are relatively concentrated within a small number of key customers, and the loss of one or more of such key c ustomers, or their failure to renew or expand user subscriptions, could slow the growth rate of our revenues or cause our revenues to decline. In our fiscal years ended January 31, 2016, 2017, and 2018, our top 10 customers accounted for 50%, 45%, and 42% of our total revenues, respectively. We rely on our reputation and recommendations from key customers in order to promote our solutions to potential customers. The loss of any of our key customers, or a failure of one or more of them to renew or expand user subscriptions, could have a significant impact on the growth rate of our revenues, our reputation, and our ability to obtain new customers. In the event of an acquisition of one of our largest customers or a business combination between two of our largest customers, we may suffer reductions in user subscriptions or non-renewal of their subscription orders. We are also likely to face increasing purchasing scrutiny at the renewal of these large customer subscription orders, which may result in reductions in user subscriptions or increased pricing pressure. The business impact of any of these negative events is particularly pronounced with respect to our largest customers. Within Veeva Commercial Cloud, our core Veeva CRM application has achieved substantial penetration within the sales teams of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. If our efforts to sustain or further increase the use and adoption of our CRM applications do not succeed, the growth rate of our revenues may decline. In our fiscal year ended January 31, 2018, we derived approximately 64% of our subscription services revenues and 61% of our total revenues from our Veeva Commercial Cloud solutions. We have realized substantial sales penetration of the available market for our core Veeva CRM application among pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. A critical factor for our continued growth is our ability to sell additional user subscriptions for Veeva CRM and the other applications within Veeva Commercial Cloud to our existing and new customers. Any factor adversely affecting sales of these applicationsincluding substantial penetration of the available market for our core Veeva CRM application, reductions in user subscriptions due to acquisitions of or business combinations between our customers, or increased purchasing scrutinymay result in reductions in user subscription or increased pricing pressure and could adversely affect the growth rate of our sales, revenues, operating results, and business. Our subscription agreements with our customers are typically for a term of one year. If our existing customers do not renew their subscriptions annually, or do not buy additional solutions and user subscriptions from us, or renew at lower aggregate fee levels, our business and operating results will suffer. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from the renewal of existing subscription orders. Our customers orders for subscription services typically have one-year terms. However, more recently and with respect to solutions other than our core sales automation solution and particularly with respect to our Vault applications, we have entered into a number of orders with terms of up to five years. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions for our solutions after their orders expire. Thus, securing the renewal of our subscription orders and selling additional solutions and user subscriptions is critical to our future operating results. Factors that may affect the renewal rate for our solutions and our ability to sell additional solutions and user subscriptions include: the price, performance, and functionality of our solutions; the availability, price, performance, and functionality of competing solutions and services; the effectiveness of our professional services; our ability to develop complementary solutions, applications, and services; the stability, performance, and security of our hosting infrastructure and hosting services; and Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 17 Table of Contents the business environment of our customers and, in particular, acquisitions of or bu siness combinations between our customers or other business developments may result in reductions in user subscriptions . In addition, our customers may negotiate terms less advantageous to us upon renewal, which could reduce our revenues from these customers. As a customers total spend on Veeva solutions increases, we expect purchasing scrutiny at renewal to increase as well, which may result in reductions in user subscriptions or increased pricing pressure. Other factors that are not within our control may contribute to a reduction in our subscription services revenues. For instance, our customers may reduce their number of sales representatives, which would result in a corresponding reduction in the number of user subscriptions needed for some of our solutions and thus a lower aggregate renewal fee, or our customers may discontinue clinical trials for which our solutions are being used. If our customers fail to renew their subscription orders, renew their subscription orders with less favorable terms or at lower fee levels or fail to purchase new solutions, applications, or professional services from us, our revenues may decline or our future revenues may be constrained. We rely on third-party providersincluding salesforce.com and Amazon Web Servicesfor computing infrastructure, network connectivity, and other technology-related services needed to deliver our cloud solutions. We are migrating to Amazon Web Services for more of these services, particularly with respect to our solutions other than Veeva CRM. Any disruption in the services provided by such third-party providers could adversely affect our business and subject us to liability. Our solutions are hosted from and use computing infrastructure provided by third parties, including salesforce.com with respect to Veeva CRM and certain of our multichannel CRM applications, Amazon Web Services with respect to Veeva Vault applications, Veeva Network applications, and certain other Veeva Commercial Cloud applications, and other computing infrastructure service providers. We have migrated and will continue to migrate a significant portion of our computing infrastructure needs to Amazon Web Services. Such migrations are risky and may cause disruptions to our cloud solutions, service outages, downtime, or other problems and may increase our costs. We do not own or control the operation of the third-party facilities or equipment used to provide the services described above. Our computing infrastructure service providers have no obligation to renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to renew these agreements on commercially reasonable terms, or if one of our computing infrastructure service providers is acquired, we may be required to transition to a new provider and we may incur significant costs and possible service interruption in connection with doing so. In addition, such service providers could decide to close their facilities or change or suspend their service offerings without adequate notice to us. Moreover, any financial difficulties, such as bankruptcy, faced by such service providers may have negative effects on our business, the nature and extent of which are difficult to predict. Since we cannot easily switch computing infrastructure service providers, any disruption with respect to our current providers would impact our operations and our business could be adversely impacted. 18 Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K Table of Contents Problems faced by our computing infrastructure service providers, including those operated by salesforce.com or Amazon Web Servic es, could adversely affect the experience of our customers. For example, in May 2016, salesforce.com suffered a significant service outage with respect to a group of servers that hosts Veeva CRM for certain of our Veeva CRM customers, which resulted in unp lanned system unavailability and potential data loss. Certain customers claimed service level credits under their contracts with us, and the impact was not material to our financial results. Amazon Web Services has also had and may in the future experience significant service outages. Additionally, if our computing infrastructure service providers are unable to keep up with our growing needs for capacity, this could have an adverse effect on our business. For example, a rapid expansion of our business could affect our service levels or cause such systems to fail. Our agreements with third-party computing infrastructure service providers may not entitle us to corresponding service level credits to those we offer to our customers. Any changes in third-party se rvice levels at our computing infrastructure service providers or any related disruptions or performance problems with our solutions could adversely affect our reputation and may damage our customers stored files, result in lengthy interruptions in our se rvices, or result in potential losses of customer data. Interruptions in our services might reduce our revenues, cause us to issue refunds to customers for prepaid and unused subscriptions, subject us to service level credit claims and potential liability, or adversely affect our renewal rates. As our costs increase, we may not be able to sustain the level of profitability we have achieved in the past. We expect our future expenses to increase as we continue to invest in and grow our business. We expect to incur significant future expenditures related to: developing new solutions and enhancing our existing solutions (including adapting certain of our Veeva Vault applications for companies outside the life sciences industry); improving the technology infrastructure, scalability, availability, security, and support for our solutions; expanding and deepening our relationships with our existing customer base, including expenditures related to increasing the adoption of our solutions by the R&D departments of life sciences companies; sales and marketing, including expansion of our direct sales organization and global marketing programs; expansion of our professional services organization; international expansion; employee compensation, including stock-based compensation; pending, threatened, or future legal proceedings, certain of which are described in Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings and which we expect to continue to result in significant expense for the foreseeable future; and general operations, IT systems, and administration, including legal and accounting expenses related to being a public company. If our efforts to increase revenues and manage our expenses are not successful, or if we incur costs, damages, fines, settlements, or judgments as a result of other risks and uncertainties described in this report, we may not be able to sustain or increase our historical levels of profitability. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 19 Table of Contents An inability to attract and retain highly skilled employees could a dversely affect our business. To execute our growth plan, we must attract and retain highly qualified employees. Competition for these employees is intense, especially with respect to sales and marketing personnel and engineers with high levels of experience in enterprise software and internet-related services. We have, from time to time, experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining employees with the appropriate level of qualifications. With respect to sales professionals, even if we are successful in attracting highly qualified personnel, it may take six to nine months or longer before they are fully trained and productive. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced employees have greater resources than we have and may offer compensation packages that are perceived to be better than ours. For instance, job candidates and existing employees often consider the value of the equity awards they receive in connection with their employment. If the perceived value of our equity awards declines, including as a result of declines in the market price of our Class A common stock or changes in perception about our future prospects, it may adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain highly skilled employees. Additionally, changes in our compensation structure, including our recent change in sales compensation to be more heavily weighted toward base salary, may be negatively received by employees and result in attrition or cause difficulty in the recruiting process. If we fail to attract new employees or fail to retain and motivate our current employees, our business and future growth prospects could be adversely affected. Defects or disruptions in our solutions could result in diminished demand for our solutions, a reduction in our revenues, and subject us to substantial liability. We generally release updates to our solutions three times per year. These updates may contain undetected errors when first introduced or released. We have from time to time found defects in our solutions, and new defects may be detected in the future. Since our customers use our solutions for important aspects of their business, any errors, defects, disruptions, service degradations, or other performance problems with our solutions could hurt our reputation and may damage our customers businesses. If that occurs, our customers may delay or withhold payment to us, cancel their agreements with us, elect not to renew, or make service credit claims, warranty claims, or other claims against us, and we could lose future sales. The occurrence of any of these events could result in diminishing demand for our solutions, a reduction of our revenues, an increase in our bad debt expense or in collection cycles for accounts receivable, or could require us to increase our warranty provisions or incur the expense of litigation or substantial liability. Our revenues and gross margin from professional services fees are volatile and may not increase from quarter to quarter or at all. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from professional services fees. Our professional services revenues fluctuate from quarter to quarter as a result of the achievement of payment milestones in our professional services arrangements, and the requirements, complexity, and timing of our customers implementation projects. Generally, a customers ongoing need for professional services decreases as the implementation and full deployment of such solutions is completed. Our customers may also choose to use third parties rather than us for certain professional services related to our solutions. As a result of these and other factors, our professional services revenues may not increase on a quarterly basis in the future or at all. Additionally, the gross margin generated from professional services fees fluctuates based on a number of factors which may be variable from period to period, including the average billable hours worked by our billable professional services personnel, our hourly rates for professional services, the achievement of payment milestones in a period for which a portion of the associated professional services was delivered in a prior period, and the margin on professional services subcontracted to our third-party systems integrator partners. As a result of these and other factors, the gross margin from our professional services may not increase on a quarterly basis in the future or at all. 20 Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K Table of Contents We have experienced rapid growth, and if we fail to manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to execute our bus iness plan. Since we were founded, we have experienced rapid growth and expansion of our operations. Our revenues, customer count, product and service offerings, countries of operation, facilities, and computing infrastructure needs have all increased significantly, and we expect them to increase in the future. We have also experienced rapid growth in our employee base, and as we continue to grow, we must effectively integrate, develop, and motivate a large number of new employees, while executing our growth plan and maintaining the beneficial aspects of our culture. Our rapid growth has placed, and will continue to place, a significant strain on our management capabilities, administrative and operational infrastructure, facilities and other resources. We anticipate that additional investments in our facilities and computing infrastructure will be required to scale our operations. To effectively manage growth, we must continue to: improve our key business applications, processes, and computing infrastructure; enhance information and communication systems; and ensure that our policies and procedures evolve to reflect our current operations and are appropriately communicated to and observed by employees. These enhancements and improvements will require additional investments and allocation of valuable management and employee time and resources. Failure to effectively manage growth could result in difficulty or delays in deploying our solutions, declines in quality or customer satisfaction, increases in costs, difficulties in introducing new features or other operational difficulties, and any of these difficulties could adversely impact our business performance and results of operations. Our agreement with salesforce.com imposes significant financial commitments on us which we may not be able to meet and which could negatively impact our financial results and liquidity in the future. Our Veeva CRM application, and certain portions of the multichannel CRM applications that complement our Veeva CRM application, are developed on and/or utilize the Salesforce1 Platform of salesforce.com. Under our agreement, salesforce.com provides the hosting infrastructure and data center for portions of our multichannel CRM applications, as well as the system administration, configuration, reporting and other platform level functionality. In exchange, we pay salesforce.com a fee. Our agreement with salesforce.com requires that we meet minimum order commitments of $500 million over the term of the agreement, which ends on September 1, 2025, including true-up payments if the orders we place with salesforce.com have not equaled or exceeded the following aggregate amounts within the timeframes indicated: (i) $250 million from March 1, 2014 to September 1, 2020 and (ii) the full amount of $500 million by September 1, 2025. See note 11 to the notes to our consolidated financial statements for more information about our on-going minimum fee obligation to salesforce.com. If we are not able to meet the minimum order commitments, the required true-up payments will negatively impact our margins, cash flows, cash balance and financial condition, and our stock price may decline. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 21 Table of Contents Substantially all of our revenues are generated by sales to customers in the life sciences industry, and factors that a dversely affect this industry, including mergers within the life sciences industry or regulatory changes, could also adversely affect us. Substantially all of our sales are to customers in the life sciences industry. Demand for our solutions could be affected by factors that adversely affect the life sciences industry, including: The consolidation of companies or bankruptcies within the life sciences industryConsolidation within the life sciences industry has accelerated in recent years, and this trend could continue. We may lose customers due to industry consolidation, and we may not be able to expand sales of our solutions and services to new customers to replace lost customers. In addition, new companies that result from such consolidation may decide that our solutions are no longer needed because of their own internal processes or alternative solutions. As these entities consolidate, competition to provide solutions and services to industry participants will become more intense and the importance of establishing relationships with large industry participants will become greater. These industry participants may try to use their market power to negotiate price reductions for our solutions. If consolidation of our larger current customers occurs, the combined company may represent a larger percentage of business for us and, as a result, we are likely to rely more significantly on the combined companys revenues to continue to achieve growth. In addition, if large life sciences merge, it would have the potential to reduce per unit pricing for our solutions for the merged companies or to reduce demand for one or more of our solutions as a result of potential personnel reductions over time. Additionally, our customers with potential treatments in clinical trials may be unsuccessful and may subsequently declare bankruptcy. The changing regulatory environment of the life sciences industryChanges in regulati ons could negatively impact the business environment for our life sciences customers . Healthcare laws and regulations are rapidly evolving and may change significantly in the future. In particular, legislation has been introduced in the United States that has led to uncertainty as to the future of certain healthcare laws and regulations regarding coverage for healthcare expenses, and legislation or regulatory changes regarding the pricing of healthcare treatments sold by life sciences companies has also recently been a topic of discussion by political leaders and regulators in the United States and elsewhere. Changes in market conditions and practices within the life sciences industryThe expiration of key patents, changes in the practices of prescribing physicians, changes with respect to payer relationships, the policies and preferences of healthcare professionals and healthcare organizations with respect to the sales and marketing efforts of life sciences companies, changes in the regulation of the sales and marketing efforts and pricing practices of life sciences companies, and other factors could lead to a significant reduction in sales representatives that use our solutions or otherwise change the demand for our solutions. Changes in public perception regarding the practices of the life sciences industry may result in political pressure to increase the regulation of life sciences companies in one or more of the areas described above, which may negatively impact demand for our solutions. Changes in global economic conditions and changes in the global availability of healthcare treatments provided by the life sciences companies to which we sellOur business depends on the overall economic health of our existing and prospective customers. The purchase of our solutions may involve a significant commitment of capital and other resources. If economic conditions, including the ability to market life sciences products in key markets or the demand for life sciences products globally deteriorates, many of our customers may delay or reduce their IT spending. This could result in reductions in sales of our solutions, longer sales cycles, reductions in subscription duration and value, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. Accordingly, our operating results and our ability to efficiently provide our solutions to life sciences companies and to grow or maintain our customer base could be adversely affected as a result of factors that affect the life sciences industry generally. 22 Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K Table of Contents If the third-party providers of healthcare reference data and prescription drug sales data do not allow our customers to upload and use such data in our solutions, our business may be negatively impacted. Many of our customers license healthcare professional and healthcare organization data and data regarding the sales of prescription drugs from third parties such as IQVIA. In order for our customers to upload such data to the Veeva CRM and Veeva Network Customer Master solution, such third-party data providers typically must consent to such uploads and often require that we enter into agreements regarding our obligations with respect to such data, which include confidentiality obligations and intellectual property rights with respect to such third-party data. We have experienced delays and difficulties in our negotiations with such third-party data prov iders in the past, and we expect to experience difficulties in the future. For instance, IQVIA currently will not consent to its healthcare professional or healthcare organization data being uploa ded to Veeva Network Customer Master and this has negatively affected sales and customer adoption of Veeva Network Customer Master. Similarly, sales and customer adoption of Veeva OpenData has been negatively impacted by certain restrictions on the use of IQVIA data during customer transitions from IQVIA data to Veeva OpenData. If such third-party data providers do not consent to the uploading and use of their data in our solutions, delay consent or fail to offer reasonable conditions for the upload and use of such data in our solutions, our sales efforts, solution implementations and productive use of our solutions by customers may be harmed, and our business, in turn, may be negatively impacted. We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights or misappropriation of intellectual property. There is considerable patent and other intellectual property development activity in our industry. Our competitors, as well as a number of other entities and individuals, including so-called non-practicing entities, or NPEs, may own or claim to own intellectual property relating to our solutions. From time to time, third parties may claim that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights or that we have misappropriated their intellectual property. For example, in 2014, we settled a lawsuit with Prolifiq Software, Inc. in exchange for a license to certain asserted patents, and we are currently defending against assertions of trade secret misappropriation made by our competitors, Medidata and IQVIA, as described in note 11 of the notes to our consolidated financial statements. As competition in our market grows, the possibility of patent infringement and other intellectual property claims against us increases. In the future, we expect others to claim that our solutions and underlying technology infringe or violate their intellectual property rights. We may be unaware of the intellectual property rights that others may claim cover some or all of our technology or services. Any claims or litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, could require that we pay substantial damages or ongoing royalty payments, prevent us from offering our services, or require that we comply with other unfavorable terms. We may also be obligated to indemnify our customers or business partners or pay substantial settlement costs, including royalty payments, in connection with any such claim or litigation and to obtain licenses, modify applications or refund fees, which could be costly. Even if we were to prevail in such a dispute, any litigation regarding our intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 23 Table of Contents Our solutions address heavily regulated functions within the life sciences industry, and failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could lessen the demand for our solutions or subject us to significant claims and losses. Our customers use our solutions for business activities that are subject to a complex regime of global laws and regulations, including requirements for maintenance of electronic records and electronic signatures (as set forth in 21 CFR Part 11, EU Annex 11, and Japan PFSB Notification No. 0401022), requirements regarding drug sample tracking and distribution (as set forth in 21 CFR Part 203, EU Directive 201/83/EC Article 96), requirements regarding system validations (as set forth in 21 CFR Part 802.75 and 21 CFR Part 211.68), and other laws and regulations. Our solutions are expected to be capable of use by our customers in compliance with such laws and regulations. Our efforts to provide solutions that comply with such laws and regulations are time-consuming and costly and include validation procedures that may delay the release of new versions of our solutions. As these laws and regulations change over time, we may find it difficult to adjust our solutions to comply with such changes. For example, on June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the European Union, commonly referred to as Brexit. Since a significant proportion of the regulatory framework in the United Kingdom is derived from EU directives and regulations, Brexit could materially affect the regulatory regime applicable to our customers with operations in the United Kingdom. Any such changes to the regulatory regime could have a material adverse effect on the life sciences industry generally and on our ability to adjust our solutions to comply with such changes. As we increase the number of products we offer and the number of countries in which we offer solutions, the complexity of adjusting our solutions to comply with legal and regulatory changes will increase. If we are unable to effectively manage this increase or if we are not able to provide solutions that can be used in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, customers may be unwilling to use our solutions and any such non-compliance could result in the termination of our customer agreements or claims arising from such agreements with our customers. Additionally, any failure of our customers to comply with laws and regulations applicable to the functions for which our solutions are used could result in fines, penalties or claims for substantial damages against our customers that may harm our business or reputation. If such failure were allegedly caused by our solutions or services, our customers may make a claim for damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for the failure. We may be subject to lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could divert our resources and our managements attention and adversely affect our business, and our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover such claims against us. Increasingly complex data protection and privacy regulations are burdensome, may reduce demand for our solutions, and non-compliance may impose significant liabilities. Our customers use our solutions to collect, use, process and store personal data or identifying information regarding their employees and the medical professionals with whom our customers have contact, and, potentially, personal data (including potentially sensitive data such as health information) regarding patients maintained by our customers pursuant to clinical, operational or compliance processes. In this capacity, we act as a data processor. We also collect and sell a database, via our Veeva OpenData and Veeva Oncology Link solutions, for which we are a data controller. In many countries, national and local governmental bodies have adopted, are considering adopting, or may adopt laws and regulations regarding the collection, use, processing, storage and disclosure of personal information obtained from individuals, making compliance a complex task. In the United States, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services promulgated patient privacy rules under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), that protect medical records and other personal health information by limiting their use and disclosure, giving individuals the right to access, amend, and seek accounting of their own health information and limiting most use and disclosures of health information to the minimum amount reasonably necessary to accomplish the intended purposes. Certain of Veevas customers can be either business associates or covered entities under HIPAA. 24 Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K Table of Contents Operating under one of the worlds strictest data privacy regimes, Veeva is a registered data controller and data processor under EU Data Protection Directive 95/46/EC. We are in the fin al stages of a significant data compliance and change management undertaking in order to prepare for GDPR, which will enter into force on May 25, 2018 and replace the EU Data Protection Directive. Preparation for GDPR has and will continue to require valua ble management and employee time and resources. In addition, the United Kingdoms Information Commissioners Office (ICO) has publicly stated that the United Kingdom will adopt GDPR as national law as it is the process of exiting the European Union. We cur rently utilize third-party computing infrastructure in the United Kingdom that is used to deliver our solutions to many of our European customers, and we are in the process of migrating to Amazon Web Services. Despite the ICOs statements, which decrease t his risk, potential regulatory changes regarding the transfer of EU data to the United Kingdom could adversely affect our customers ability or desire to collect, use, process, and store personal or health-related information using our data center in the U nited Kingdom, which could reduce demand for our solutions . In addition, we routinely utilize the EU Standard Contractual Clauses, often also referred to as Model Clauses, to ensure that our European customers have adequate assurance of our technical and organization controls on privacy, although this legal mechanism is currently under review by the European Court of Justice. In parallel, we have self-certified under the EU-U.S. and Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shields. There is also a trend toward countries enacting data localization requirements which are not particularly compatible with the cloud computing model. For example, Russia's localization law (Federal Law No. 242-FZ) requires that the source of data for Russian nationals collected on Russian territory must be stored in Russia. We are also monitoring the impact of Chinas new cyber security law and its related implementation rules that are not yet finalized. Depending on the final enacted implementation rules, localization of certain types of data and restrictions on cross-border transfers may apply. Customers expect that our solutions can be used in compliance with such laws and regulations. The functional and operational requirements and costs of compliance with such laws and regulations may adversely impact our business, and failure to enable our solutions to comply with such laws and regulations could lead to significant fines and penalties imposed by regulators, as well as claims by our customers or third parties. Additionally, all of these domestic and international legislative and regulatory initiatives could adversely affect our customers ability or desire to collect, use, process and store personal or health-related information using our solutions or to license data products from us, which could reduce demand for our solutions. We may acquire other companies or technologies, which could divert our managements attention, result in additional dilution to our stockholders and otherwise disrupt our operations and adversely affect our operating results. We have in the past acquired and may in the future seek to acquire or invest in businesses, solutions or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our solutions, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth opportunities. For instance, in 2015, we acquired the key opinion leader business and products of Qforma, Inc., Mederi AG and other affiliated entities through a combination of stock and asset purchases. In 2015, we also acquired Zinc Ahead, a provider of commercial content management solutions. Additionally, the pursuit of potential acquisitions may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur various expenses in identifying, investigating, and pursuing suitable acquisitions, whether or not they are consummated. We have limited experience in acquiring other businesses. We may not be able to successfully integrate the acquired personnel, operations and technologies, or effectively manage the combined business following the acquisition. We also may not achieve the anticipated benefits from the acquired business due to a number of factors, including: inability to integrate or benefit from acquired technologies or services in a profitable manner; costs, liabilities or accounting charges associated with the acquisition; difficulty integrating the accounting systems, operations and personnel of the acquired business; Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 25 Table of Contents problems arising from differences in applicable accounting standards or practices of the acquired business (for instance, non-U.S. businesses may not be accust omed to preparing their financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP) or difficulty identifying and correcting deficiencies in the internal controls over financial reporting of the acquired business; difficulties and additional expenses associated with supporting legacy products and hosting infrastructure of the acquired business; difficulty converting the customers of the acquired business onto our solutions and contract terms, including due to disparities in the revenues, licensing, support or professional services model of the acquired company; diversion of managements attention from other business concerns; adverse effects to business relationships with our existing business partners and customers as a result of the acquisition; difficulty in retaining key personnel of the acquired business; the possibility of investigation by, or the failure to obtain required approvals from, governmental authorities on a timely basis, if at all, under various regulatory schemes, including competition laws, which could, among other things, delay or prevent us from completing a transaction, subject the transaction to divestiture after the fact or otherwise restrict our ability to realize the expected financial or strategic goals of the acquisition; use of resources that are needed in other parts of our business; and use of substantial portions of our available cash to consummate the acquisition. In addition, a significant portion of the purchase price of companies we acquire may be allocated to acquired goodwill and other intangible assets, which we must assess for impairment at least annually. In the future, if our acquisitions do not yield expected returns, we may be required to take charges to our operating results based on this impairment assessment process, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Acquisitions may also result in purchase accounting adjustments, write-offs or restructuring charges, which may negatively affect our results. Acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, if an acquired business fails to meet our expectations, our operating results, business and financial position may suffer. Our sales cycles can be long and unpredictable, and our sales efforts require considerable investment of time and expense. If our sales cycle lengthens or we invest substantial resources pursuing unsuccessful sales opportunities, our operating results and growth would be harmed. Our sales process entails planning discussions with prospective customers, analyzing their existing solutions and identifying how these potential customers can use and benefit from our solutions. The sales cycle for a new customer, from the time of prospect qualification to the completion of the first sale, may span over 12 months or longer. In particular, we have limited history selling certain of our more recently announced Veeva Vault applications, such as Veeva Vault EDC and Veeva Vault CTMS, to the R&D departments of life sciences companies. As a result, our sales cycle for these applications may be lengthy and difficult to predict. In addition, we have only recently begun selling certain of our Veeva Vault applications to companies outside the life sciences industry. We spend substantial time, effort and money in our sales efforts without any assurance that our efforts will result in the sale of our solutions. In addition, our sales cycle can vary substantially from customer to customer because of various factors, including the discretionary nature of potential customers purchasing and budget decisions, the announcement or planned introduction of new solutions by us or our competitors and the purchasing approval processes of potential customers. If our sales cycle lengthens or we invest substantial resources pursuing unsuccessful sales opportunities, our operating results and growth would be harmed. 26 Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K Table of Contents If we fail to effectively manage our technical operations infrastructure, our existing customers may experi ence service outages and our new customers may experience delays in the deployment of our solutions. We have experienced significant growth in the number of end users, transactions, and data that our operations infrastructure supports. We seek to maintain sufficient excess capacity in our operations infrastructure to meet the needs of all of our customers. We also seek to maintain excess capacity to facilitate the rapid provision of new customer deployments and the expansion of existing customer deployments. In addition, we need to properly manage our technological operations infrastructure. However, the provision of new hosting infrastructure requires adequate lead-time. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, service disruptions, degradations, outages and other performance problems. These types of problems may be caused by a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, viruses, security attacks, fraud, spikes in customer usage, problems associated with our third-party computing infrastructure and network providers and denial of service issues. In addition, service disruptions may result from errors we make in delivery, configuring, or hosting our solutions, or designing, installing, expanding, or maintaining our computing infrastructure. In some instances, we may not be able to identify the cause or causes of these performance problems within an acceptable period of time. It is also possible that such problems could result in losses of customer data. If we do not accurately predict our infrastructure requirements, our existing customers may experience delays in the deployment of our solutions or service outages that may subject us to financial penalties, financial liabilities and customer losses. For instance, our customer agreements typically provide service level commitments on a quarterly basis. If we are unable to meet the stated service level commitments or suffer extended periods of unavailability for our solutions, we may be contractually obligated to provide these customers with service level credits or our customers may terminate their agreements. Catastrophic events could disrupt our business and adversely affect our operating results. Our corporate headquarters are located in Pleasanton, California and our third-party hosted computing infrastructure is located in the United States, the European Union, Japan, and South Korea. The west coast of the United States and Japan and South Korea each contain active earthquake zones. Additionally, we rely on our network and third-party infrastructure and enterprise applications, internal technology systems, and our website for our development, marketing, operational support, hosted services, and sales activities. In the event of a major earthquake, hurricane, or catastrophic event such as fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, cyber-attack, war, or terrorist attack, we may be unable to continue our operations and may experience system interruptions, reputational harm, delays in our solution development, lengthy interruptions in our services, breaches of data security, and loss of critical data, all of which could have an adverse effect on our future operating results. Because key and substantial portions of our multichannel CRM applications are built on salesforce.coms Salesforce1 Platform, we are dependent upon our agreement with salesforce.com to provide these solutions to our customers, and we are bound by the restrictions of this agreement which limits the companies to which we may sell our Veeva CRM solution. Our Veeva CRM application and certain portions of the multichannel CRM applications that complement our Veeva CRM application are developed on or utilize the Salesforce1 Platform of salesforce.com, and we rely on our agreement with salesforce.com to continue to use the Salesforce1 Platform as combined with the proprietary aspects of our multichannel CRM applications. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 27 Table of Contents Our agreement with salesforce.com expires on September 1, 2025. However, salesforce.com has the right to terminate the agreement in ce rtain circumstances, including in the event of a material breach of the agreement by us, or that salesforce.com is subjected to third-party intellectual property infringement claims based on our solutions (except to the extent based on the Salesforce1 Plat form) or our trademarks and we do not remedy such infringement in accordance with the agreement. Also, if we are acquired by specified companies, salesforce.com may terminate the agreement upon notice of not less than 12 months. If salesforce.com terminate s our agreement under these circumstances, our customers will be unable to access Veeva CRM and certain other of our multichannel CRM applications. A termination of the agreement would cause us to incur significant time and expense to acquire rights to, or develop, a replacement CRM platform, and we may not be successful in these efforts. Even if we were to successfully acquire or develop a replacement CRM platform, some customers may decide not to adopt the replacement platform and may decide to use a diff erent CRM solution. If we were unsuccessful in acquiring or developing a replacement CRM platform or acquired or developed a replacement CRM platform that our customers do not adopt, our business, operating results and brand may be adversely affected. Also, if either party elects not to renew the agreement at the end of its September 1, 2025 term or if the agreement is terminated by us as a result of salesforce.coms breach, the agreement provides for a five-year wind-down period in which we would be able to continue providing the Salesforce1 Platform as combined with the proprietary aspects of our solutions to our existing customers but would be limited with respect to the number of additional subscriptions we could sell to our existing customers. After the wind-down period, we would no longer be able to use the Salesforce1 Platform. Our agreement with salesforce.com provides that we can use the Salesforce1 Platform as combined with our proprietary Veeva CRM application to sell sales automation solutions only to drug makers in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries for human and animal treatments, which does not include the medical devices industry or products for non-drug departments of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Sales of the Salesforce1 Platform in combination with our Veeva CRM application to additional industries would require the review and approval of salesforce.com. Our inability to freely sell our Veeva CRM application outside of drug makers in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries may adversely impact our growth. While our agreement with salesforce.com, subject to certain exceptions, including pre-existing arrangements, provides that salesforce.com will not position, develop, promote, invest in or acquire applications directly competitive to the Veeva CRM application for sales automation that directly target drug makers in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry, or the pharma/biotech industry, our remedy for a breach of this commitment by salesforce.com would be to terminate the agreement, or continue the agreement but be released from our minimum order commitments from the date of salesforce.coms breach forward. While our agreement with salesforce.com also restricts salesforce.com from competing with us with respect to sales opportunities for sales automation solutions for the pharma/biotech industry unless such competition has been pre-approved by salesforce.coms senior management based on certain criteria specified in the agreement, and imposes certain limits on salesforce.com from entering into new arrangements after March 3, 2014 that are similar to ours with other parties with respect to sales automation applications for the pharma/biotech industry, it does not restrict a salesforce.com customers ability (or the ability of salesforce.com on behalf of a specific salesforce.com customer) to customize or configure the Salesforce1 Platform, and our remedy for a breach of these restrictions by salesforce.com would be to terminate the agreement, or continue the agreement but be released from our minimum order commitments from the date of salesforce.coms breach forward. Some current or potential customers of ours may choose to build custom solutions using the Salesforce1 Platform rather than buying our solutions. 28 Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K Table of Contents We employ third-party licensed software and software components for use in or with our solutions, and the inability to maintain these licenses or the presence of errors in the software we license could limit the functionality of our products and result in increased costs or reduced service levels, which would adversely affect our business. In addition to our employment of the Salesforce1 Platform through our agreement with salesforce.com, our solutions incorporate or utilize certain third-party software and software components obtained under licenses from other companies. We anticipate that we will continue to rely on such third-party software and development tools from third parties in the future. Although we believe that there are commercially reasonable alternatives to the third-party software we currently license, this may not always be the case, or it may be difficult or costly to replace. Our use of additional or alternative third-party software would require us to enter into license agreements with third parties. In addition, if the third-party software we utilize has errors or otherwise malfunctions, the functionality of our solutions may be negatively impacted and our business may suffer. Because we recognize subscription services revenues ratably over the term of the order for our subscription services, a significant downturn in our business may not be reflected immediately in our operating results, which increases the difficulty of evaluating our future financial performance. We generally recognize subscription services revenues ratably over the term of an order under our subscription agreements. As a result, a substantial majority of our quarterly subscription services revenues are generated from subscription agreements entered into during prior periods. Consequently, a decline in new subscriptions in any quarter may not affect our results of operations in that quarter but could reduce our revenues in future quarters. Additionally, the timing of renewals or non-renewals of a subscription agreement during any quarter may only affect our financial performance in future quarters. For example, the non-renewal of a subscription agreement late in a quarter will have minimal impact on revenues for that quarter but will reduce our revenues in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant declines in sales and customer acceptance of our solutions may not be reflected in our short-term results of operations, which would make these reported results less indicative of our future financial results. By contrast, a non-renewal occurring early in a quarter may have a significant negative impact on revenues for that quarter and we may not be able to offset a decline in revenues due to non-renewal with revenues from new subscription agreements entered into in the same quarter. In addition, we may be unable to adjust our costs in response to reduced revenues. Additionally, with respect to certain of our multi-year orders in which fees increase from year to year, when effective, Topic 606 may require that the total contracted revenue for the entire multi-year term of the order be recognized ratably in the same amount in each year. As a result, in the initial year of such orders, we will recognize more revenue than the fees we invoice for the same period, and in the last year of such orders, we will recognize less revenue than the fees we invoice for the same period. These changes may make our reported results less indicative of the actual health of our business at the time revenue is reported and expose us to impaired accounts receivables. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 29 Table of Contents Changes in accounting principles may cause previously unanticipated fluctuations in our financial results, and the implementation of such changes may impact our ability to meet our financial reporting obligations. We prepare our financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP which are subject to interpretation or changes by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and other various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. New accounting pronouncements and changes in accounting principles have occurred in the past and are expected to occur in the future which may have a significant effect on our financial results. For example, Topic 606 supersedes most current revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance. We will be required to implement this new revenue standard for our fiscal year beginning February 1, 2018. The impact of adoption of Topic 606 will include a requirement to capitalize the costs to obtain a customer contract (e.g., sales commissions) and amortize these costs over the estimated life of the underlying contract, which we have not previously done. Additionally, we expect the timing of revenue recognition for certain of our revenue arrangements to be impacted by the changes imposed by Topic 606. For instance, with respect to certain of our multi-year orders in which fees increase from year to year, Topic 606 may require that the total contracted revenue for the entire multi-year term of the order be recognized ratably in the same amount in each year. As a result, in the initial year of such orders, we will recognize more revenue than the fees we invoice for the same period, and in the last year of such orders, we will recognize less revenue than the fees we invoice for the same period. Please see note 1 of the notes to our consolidated financial statements for more information. Any difficulties in implementation of changes in accounting principles, including the ability to modify our accounting systems, could cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations, which could result in regulatory discipline and harm investors confidence in us. Deferred revenue and change in deferred revenue may not be an accurate indicator of our future financial results. Our subscription orders are generally billed beginning at the subscription commencement date in annual or quarterly increments. Many of our customers, including many of our large customers, are billed on a quarterly basis and therefore a substantial portion of the value of contracts billed on a quarterly basis will not be reflected in our deferred revenue at the end of any given quarter. Also, because the terms of orders for additional end users or solutions are typically coterminus with the anniversary date of the initial order for a related solution, the terms of such orders for additional end users or solutions can be for relatively short periods of time, often less than one year and payment terms may also be quarterly. Therefore, the annualized value of such orders that we enter into with our customers will not be completely reflected in deferred revenue at any single point in time. We have also agreed from time to time and may agree in the future to allow customers to change the renewal dates of their orders to, for example, align more closely with a customers annual budget process or to align with the renewal dates of other orders placed by other entities within the same corporate control group, or to change payment terms from annual to quarterly, or vice versa. Such changes typically result in an order of less than one year as necessary to align all orders to the desired renewal date and, thus, may result in a lesser increase to deferred revenue than if the renewal date adjustment had not occurred. Additionally, if a coterminus order of less than one year renews in the same fiscal year in which it was originally signed and has annual billing terms, the order will generate more deferred revenue in that fiscal year than the annual contract value of that order. Accordingly, we do not believe that changes on a quarterly basis in deferred revenue or calculated billings, a metric commonly cited by financial analysts that is the sum of the change in deferred revenue plus revenue, are accurate indicators of future revenues for any given period of time. Upon the adoption of Topic 606, the calculated billings metric will be the sum of the change in deferred revenue plus revenue minus the change in unbilled accounts receivable. However, many companies that provide cloud-based software report changes in deferred revenue or calculated billings as key operating or financial metrics, and it is possible that analysts or investors may view these metrics as important. Thus, any changes in our deferred revenue balances or deferred revenue trends, or in the future, our unbilled accounts receivable balances or trends, could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. 30 Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K Table of Contents Sales to customers outsi de the United States or with international operations expose us to risks inherent in international sales. In our fiscal year ended January 31, 2018, sales to customers outside North America, which is primarily measured by the estimated location of the end users or usage for subscription services revenues and the estimated location of the resources performing the services for professional services, accounted for approximately 45% of our total revenues. A key element of our growth strategy is to further expand our international operations and worldwide customer base. Operating in international markets requires significant resources and management attention and subjects us to regulatory, economic and political risks that are different from those in the United States. We have limited operating experience in some international markets, and we cannot assure you that our expansion efforts into other international markets will be successful. Our experience in the United States and other international markets in which we already have a presence may not be relevant to our ability to expand in other emerging markets. Our international expansion efforts may not be successful in creating further demand for our solutions outside of the United States or in effectively selling our solutions in the international markets we enter. In addition, we face risks in doing business internationally that could adversely affect our business, including: the need and expense to localize and adapt our solutions for specific countries, including translation into foreign languages, and ensuring that our solutions enable our customers to comply with local life sciences industry laws and regulations; data privacy laws which require that customer data be stored and processed in a designated territory; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including employee laws and regulations; different pricing environments, longer sales cycles and longer accounts receivable payment cycles and collections issues; new and different sources of competition; weaker protection for intellectual property and other legal rights than in the United States and practical difficulties in enforcing intellectual property and other rights outside of the United States; laws and business practices favoring local competitors; compliance challenges related to the complexity of multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, including employment, tax, privacy and data protection and anti-bribery laws and regulations; increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; restrictions on the transfer of funds; our ability to repatriate funds from abroad without adverse tax consequences; adverse tax consequences, including the potential for required withholding taxes; fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currency in which our foreign revenues or expenses may be denominated; changes in trade relations and trade policy, including implementation of or changes to trade sanctions, tariffs, and embargos; and unstable regional and economic political conditions in the markets in which we operate. Some of our business partners also have international operations and are subject to the risks described above. Even if we are able to successfully manage the risks of international operations, our business may be adversely affected if our business partners are not able to successfully manage these risks, which could adversely affect our business. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 31 Table of Contents We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could impair our ability to compete in international markets in which our products may not be sold or subject us to liability if we violate the controls . Our products are subject to U.S. export controls, including the U.S. economic sanctions laws and regulations that prohibit the shipment of certain products and services without the required export authorizations or export to countries, governments, and persons targeted by U.S. sanctions. Under current U.S. export restrictions, our products may not be sold in certain jurisdictions in which certain of our non-U.S. based customers have operations. As a result, such customers may choose to use solutions other than ours. While we take precautions to prevent our products and services from being exported in violation of these laws, we cannot guarantee that the precautions we take will prevent violations of export control and sanctions laws. Violations of U.S. sanctions or export control laws can result in fines or penalties. In the event of criminal knowing and willful violations of these laws, fines and possible incarceration for responsible employees and managers could be imposed. If we lose the services of our founder and Chief Executive Officer or other members of our senior management team, we may not be able to execute our business strategy. Our success depends in a large part upon the continued service of our senior management team. In particular, our founder and Chief Executive Officer, Peter P. Gassner, is critical to our vision, strategic direction, culture, products and technology. We do not maintain key-man insurance for Mr. Gassner or any other member of our senior management team. We do not have employment agreements with members of our senior management team or other key personnel that require them to continue to work for us for any specified period and, therefore, they could terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of our founder and Chief Executive Officer or one or more other members of our senior management team could have an adverse effect on our business. Our business could be adversely affected if our customers are not satisfied with the professional services provided by us or our partners, or with our technical support services. Our business depends on our ability to satisfy our customers, both with respect to our solutions and the professional services that are performed in connection with the implementation of our solutions. Professional services may be performed by us, by a third party, or by a combination of the two. If a customer is not satisfied with the quality of work performed by us or a third party or with the solutions delivered or professional services rendered, then we could incur additional costs to address the situation, we may be required to issue credits or refunds for pre-paid amounts related to unused services, the profitability of that work might be impaired and the customers dissatisfaction with our services could damage our ability to expand the number of solutions subscribed to by that customer. Moreover, negative publicity related to our customer relationships, regardless of its accuracy, may further damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new business with current and prospective customers. Once our solutions are deployed, our customers depend on our support organization to resolve technical issues relating to our solutions. We may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in customer demand for technical support services. Increased customer demand for our services, without corresponding revenues, could increase costs and adversely affect our operating results. In addition, our sales process is highly dependent on the reputation of our solutions and business and on positive recommendations from our existing customers. Any failure to maintain high-quality technical support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality support, could adversely affect our reputation, our ability to sell our solutions to existing and prospective customers and our business and operating results. 32 Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K Table of Contents Any failure to protect our intellectual property rights could impair our ability to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. Our success and ability to compete depend in part upon our intellectual property. As of January 31, 2018, we had filed applications for a number of patents, and we have 13 issued U.S. and two Japanese patents. We also rely on copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, trade secret protection and confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others to protect our intellectual property rights. However, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property rights may be inadequate. In order to protect our intellectual property rights, we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect these rights. Litigation brought to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly, time-consuming and distracting to management and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. Negative publicity related to a decision by us to initiate such enforcement actions against a customer or former customer, regardless of its accuracy, may adversely impact our other customer relationships or prospective customer relationships, harm our brand and business and could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline. Our failure to secure, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our brand and our business. Taxing authorities may successfully assert that we should have collected or in the future should collect sales and use, value added or similar transactional taxes, and we could be subject to liability with respect to past or future sales, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We do not collect sales and use, value added and similar transactional taxes in all jurisdictions in which we have sales, based on our belief that such taxes are not applicable or that we are not required to collect such taxes with respect to the jurisdiction. Sales and use, value added and similar tax laws and rates vary greatly by jurisdiction. Certain jurisdictions in which we do not collect such taxes may assert that such taxes are applicable, which could result in tax assessments, penalties and interest, and we may be required to collect such taxes in the future. Such tax assessments, penalties and interest or future requirements may adversely affect our results of operations. We believe that our financial statements reflect adequate reserves to cover such a contingency, but there can be no assurances in that regard. Unanticipated changes in our effective tax rate and additional tax liabilities, including as a result of our international operations or implementation of new tax rules, could harm our future results. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions (including Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, Hungary, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Singapore, South Korea, Spain, Switzerland, Thailand, Ukraine, and the United Kingdom) and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of expenses in differing jurisdictions and complex transfer pricing regulations administered by taxing authorities in various jurisdictions. Tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we operate may change as a result of factors outside of our control or relevant taxing authorities may disagree with our determinations as to the income and expenses attributable to specific jurisdictions . In addition, changes in tax and trade laws, treaties or regulations, or their interpretation or enforcement, have become more unpredictable and may become more stringent, which could materially adversely affect our tax position. Forecasting our estimated annual effective tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty, and there may be material differences between our forecasted and actual tax rates. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings and losses in countries with differing statutory tax rates, certain non-deductible expenses, the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of tax returns, changes in available tax attributes, decision to repatriate non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes, and changes in federal, state or international tax laws and accounting principles. Increases in our effective tax rate would reduce our profitability. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 33 Table of Contents Our tax provision could also be impacted by changes in accounting principles and changes in U.S. federal and state or international tax laws applicable to multinational corporations. For example, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (Tax Act) significantly changes how the U.S. Department of Treasury imposes income taxes on U.S. corporations. We m ade significant judgments and assumptions in the interpretation of this new law and in our calculations of the provisional amounts reflected in our financial statements. The U.S. Department of Treasury, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), and other standar d-setting bodies may issue guidance on how the provisions of the Tax Act will be applied or otherwise administered, and additional accounting guidance or interpretations may be issued in the future that is different from our current interpretation. As we f urther analyze the new law and collect relevant information to complete our computations of the related accounting impact, we may make adjustments to the provisional amounts that could materially affect our provision for income taxes in the period in which the adjustments are made. In addition, other countries are considering fundamental tax law changes. Any changes in taxing jurisdictions' administrative interpretations, decisions, policies and positions could also impact our tax liabilities. The overall tax environment has made it increasingly challenging for multinational corporations to operate with certainty about taxation in many jurisdictions. The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, which represents a coalition of member countries, is supporting changes to numerous long-standing tax, including changes to the practice of shifting profits among affiliated entities located in different tax jurisdictions. The increasingly complex global tax environment could have a material adverse effect on our effective tax rate, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Finally, we may be subject to income tax audits throughout the world. For example, we are currently under audit by the IRS for our income tax return for fiscal year ended January 31, 2015 and for our employment tax for calendar years 2015 and 2016. In connection with the employment tax audit, we have taken an expense of $2.0 million for calendar years 2015, 2016, and 2017. Although, with the expense we have taken, we believe our income and payroll tax liabilities are reasonably estimated and accounted for in accordance with applicable laws and principles, an adverse resolution of one or more uncertain tax positions in any period could have a material impact on the results of operations for that period. Our solutions utilize open source software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open source licenses could adversely affect our business. Our solutions include software covered by open source licenses. The terms of various open source licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to market our solutions. By the terms of certain open source licenses, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software, and to make our proprietary software available under open source licenses, if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner. In the event that portions of our proprietary software are determined to be subject to an open source license, we could be required to publicly release the affected portions of our source code, re-engineer all or a portion of our solutions, or otherwise be limited in the licensing of our solutions, each of which could reduce or eliminate the value of our solutions and services. In addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the origin of the software. Many of the risks associated with usage of open source software cannot be eliminated and could adversely affect our business. 34 Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K Table of Contents Our estimate of the market size for our solutions we ha ve provided publicly may prove to be inaccurate, and even if the market size is accurate, we cannot assure you our business will serve a significant portion of the market. Our estimate of the market size for our solutions that we have provided publicly, sometimes referred to as total addressable market (TAM), is subject to significant uncertainty and is based on assumptions and estimates, including our internal analysis and industry experience, which may not prove to be accurate. These estimates are, in part, based upon the size of the general application areas in which our solutions are targeted. Our ability to serve a significant portion of this estimated market is subject to many factors, including our success in implementing our business strategy, which is subject to many risks and uncertainties. For example, in order to address the entire TAM we have identified, we must continue to enhance and add functionality to our existing solutions and introduce new solutions. Accordingly, even if our estimate of the market size is accurate, we cannot assure you that our business will serve a significant portion of this estimated market for our solutions. Currency exchange fluctuations may negatively impact our financial results. Some of our international agreements provide for payment denominated in local currencies, and the majority of our local costs are denominated in local currencies. As we continue to expand our operations in countries outside the United States, an increasing proportion of our revenues and expenditures in the future may be denominated in foreign currencies. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar versus foreign currencies may impact our operating results when translated into U.S. dollars. Thus, our results of operations and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly changes in the Euro, British Pound Sterling, Japanese Yen, and Chinese Yuan, and may be adversely affected in the future due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Changes in exchange rates may negatively affect our revenues and other operating results as expressed in U.S. dollars in the future. Further, we have experienced and will continue to experience fluctuations in our net income as a result of transaction gains or losses related to revaluing certain current asset and current liability balances that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entities in which they are recorded. We initiated a program during our fiscal year ended January 31, 2018 to engage in the hedging of our foreign currency transactions and may, in the future, hedge selected significant transactions or net monetary exposure positions denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The use of such hedging activities may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place. Moreover, the use of hedging instruments may introduce additional risks if we are unable to structure effective hedges with such instruments. If we are unable to implement and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our Class A common stock could be adversely affected. As a public company, we are required to maintain internal controls over financial reporting and to report any material weaknesses in such internal controls. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley Act) requires that we evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and provide a management report on internal controls over financial reporting. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act also requires that our management report on internal controls over financial reporting be attested to by our independent registered public accounting firm. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 35 Table of Contents Many of the internal controls we have implemented pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act are process cont rols with respect to which a material weakness may be found whether or not any error has been identified in our reported financial statements. This may be confusing to investors and result in damage to our reputation, which may harm our business. Additiona lly, the proper design and assessment of internal controls over financial reporting are subject to varying interpretations, and, as a result, application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies and as common practices evolve. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding the proper design and assessment of internal controls over financial reporting and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to internal controls. We must continue to monitor and assess our internal control over financial reporting. If in the future we have any material weaknesses, we may not detect errors on a timely basis and our financial statements may be materially misstated. Additionally, if in the future we are unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner, are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, identify material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our Class A common stock could be adversely affected, and we could become subject to investigations by the stock exchange on which our securities are listed, the SEC, or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources. If we fail to develop widespread brand awareness cost-effectively, our business may suffer. We believe that developing and maintaining widespread awareness of our brand in a cost-effective manner is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our solutions, attracting new customers, and generating and maintaining profitability. Currently, our brand may be less recognized by the key decision makers at the potential customers for our more recently announced solutions, including Veeva Vault CTMS, Veeva Vault EDC, and our solutions for companies in industries other than life sciences. Brand promotion activities may not generate customer awareness or increase revenues, and even if they do, any increase in revenues may not offset the expenses we incur in building our brand. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand, or incur substantial expenses attempting to promote and maintain our brand, we may fail to attract or retain customers necessary to realize a sufficient return on our brand-building efforts or to achieve the widespread brand awareness that is critical for broad customer adoption of our solutions. If the demand for cloud-based solutions declines, particularly in the life sciences industry, our revenues could decrease and our business could be adversely affected. The continued expansion of cloud-based solutions, particularly in the life sciences industry, depends on a number of factors, including the cost, performance and perceived value associated with cloud-based solutions, as well as the ability of providers of cloud-based solutions to address and maintain security, privacy and unique regulatory requirements or concerns. If we or other cloud-based solution providers experience security incidents, loss of customer data, disruptions in delivery or other problems, the market for cloud-based solutions in the life sciences industry, including our solutions, may be adversely affected. If cloud-based solutions do not continue to achieve more widespread adoption in the life sciences industry, or there is a reduction in demand for cloud-based solutions, our revenues could decrease and our business could be adversely affected. 36 Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock Our Class A common stock price has been and will likely continue to be volatile. The trading price of our Class A common stock has been and will likely continue to be volatile for the foreseeable future. In addition, the trading prices of the securities of technology companies have been highly volatile. Accordingly, the market price of our Class A common stock is likely to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition to those risks described in this Risk Factors section, other factors could impact the value of our common stock, including: fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us, such as high-growth or cloud companies, or in valuation metrics, such as our price to revenues ratio; overall performance of the stock market; changes in our financial, operating or other metrics, regardless of whether we consider those metrics as reflective of the current state or long-term prospects of our business, and how those results compare to securities analyst expectations, including whether those results fail to meet, exceed, or significantly exceed securities analyst expectations; changes in the forward-looking estimates of our financial, operating, or other metrics, how those estimates compare to securities analyst expectations, or changes in recommendations by securities analysts that follow our Class A common stock; announcements of customer additions and customer cancellations or delays in customer purchases; the net increase in the number of customers, either independently or as compared to published expectations of industry, financial or other analysts that cover us; announcements by us or by our competitors of technological innovations, new solutions, enhancements to services, strategic alliances or significant agreements; announcements by us or by our competitors of mergers or other strategic acquisitions or rumors of such transactions involving us or our competitors; the economy as a whole and market conditions within our industry and the industries of our customers; macroeconomic and geopolitical factors and instability and volatility in the global financial markets; trading activity by directors, executive officers and significant stockholders, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell their shares; the operating performance and market value of other comparable companies; changes in legislation relating to our existing or future solutions; and any other factors discussed herein. In addition, if the market for technology stocks or the stock market in general experiences uneven investor confidence, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, operating results or financial condition. The market price of our Class A common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies within, or outside, our industry even if these events do not directly affect us. Some companies that have experienced volatility in the trading price of their stock have been the subject of securities class action litigation. If we are the subject of such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our managements attention and resources. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 37 Table of Contents The dual class structure of our common stock has the effect of concentrating voting control with certain individuals and their affiliates, which will limit or preclude the ability of our investors to influence corporate matters and could depress the market value of our Class A common st ock. Our Class B common stock has ten votes per share, and our Class A common stock has one vote per share. As of January 31, 2018, stockholders who hold shares of Class B common stock, including our executive officers and directors and their affiliates, together hold approximately 67.9% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock. Because of the ten-to-one voting ratio between our Class B common stock and Class A common stock, the holders of our Class B common stock collectively control a substantial majority of the combined voting power of our common stock and, assuming no material sales of such shares, will be able to control all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval until October 15, 2023, including the election of directors, amendments of our organizational documents and any merger, consolidation, sale of all or substantially all of our assets or other major corporate transaction. This concentrated control will limit or preclude our investors ability to influence corporate matters for the foreseeable future. In addition, this may prevent or discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or offers for our capital stock or may adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. Future transfers by holders of Class B common stock will generally result in those shares converting to Class A common stock, subject to limited exceptions, such as certain transfers effected for estate planning purposes. The conversion of Class B common stock to Class A common stock will have the effect, over time, of increasing the relative voting power of those holders of Class B common stock who retain their shares in the long term. If, for example, our executive officers (including our Chief Executive Officer), employees, directors and their affiliates retain a significant portion of their holdings of Class B common stock for an extended period of time, they could, in the future, continue to control a majority of the combined voting power of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock. In addition, S&P Dow Jones and FTSE Russell have recently announced changes to their eligibility criteria for inclusion of shares of public companies with multiple classes of stock on certain indices, including the S&P 500. While this has not affected the inclusion of Veevas Class A common stock in these indices to date, eligibility criteria of these indices and others may change in the future. In addition, several shareholder advisory firms have announced their opposition to the use of multiple class structures. As a result, the dual class structure of our common stock may prevent the inclusion of our Class A common stock in such indices and may cause shareholder advisory firms to publish negative commentary about our corporate governance practices or otherwise seek to cause us to change our capital structure. Any such exclusion from indices could result in a less active trading market for our Class A common stock. Any actions or publications by shareholder advisory firms critical of our corporate governance practices or capital structure could also adversely affect the value of our Class A common stock. We have broad discretion in the use of our cash balances and may not use them effectively. We have broad discretion in the use of our cash balances and may not use them effectively. The failure by our management to apply these funds effectively could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Pending their use, we may invest our cash balances in a manner that does not produce income or that loses value. Our investments may not yield a favorable return to our investors and may negatively impact the price of our Class A common stock. We do not intend to pay dividends on our capital stock for the foreseeable future, so any returns will be limited to changes in the value of our Class A common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings for the development, operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. In addition, our ability to pay cash dividends on our capital stock may be prohibited or limited by the terms of any future debt financing arrangement. Any return to stockholders will therefore be limited to the increase, if any, of the price of our Class A common stock. 38 Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K Table of Contents Future sales and issuances of our common stock or rights to purchase common stock, including pursuant to our equity incentive plans, could result in additional dilution of t he percentage ownership of our stockholders and could cause the stock price of our Class A common stock to decline. In the future, we may sell common stock, convertible securities or other equity securities in one or more transactions at prices and in a manner we determine from time to time. We expect to issue securities to employees and directors pursuant to our equity incentive plans. If we sell common stock, convertible securities or other equity securities in subsequent transactions, or common stock is issued pursuant to equity incentive plans, our investors may be materially diluted. New investors in such subsequent transactions could gain rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, including our Class A common. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that they might occur, could cause the price of our Class A common stock to decline. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our Class A common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales might occur, could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline or make it more difficult for you to sell your common stock at a time and price that you deem appropriate and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We are unable to predict the effect that sales, or the perception that our shares may be available for sale, will have on the prevailing market price of our Class A common stock. In addition, as of January 31, 2018, we had options outstanding that, if exercised, would result in the issuance of additional shares of Class A or Class B common stock. Our Class B common stock converts into Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis. As of January 31, 2018, we had restricted stock units outstanding which may vest in the future and result in the issuance of additional shares of Class A common stock. Our unexercised stock options and unvested restricted stock units, as of January 31, 2018, are described in note 8 of the notes to our consolidated financial statements. All of the shares of Class A common stock issuable upon the exercise of options (or upon conversion of shares of Class B common stock issued upon the exercise of options) or upon the vesting of restricted stock units have been registered for public resale under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. Accordingly, these shares will be able to be freely sold in the public market upon issuance as permitted by any applicable vesting requirements. If securities or industry analysts publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our Class A common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our Class A common stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our Class A common stock price may decline. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 39 Table of Contents Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the market price of our Class A common stock. Our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could depress the market price of our Class A common stock by acting to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. These provisions among other things: establish a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board are elected at one time; provide for a dual class common stock structure, which gives our Chief Executive Officer, directors, executive officers, greater than 5% stockholders and their respective affiliates the ability to control the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval, even if they own significantly less than a majority of the shares of our outstanding Class A and Class B common stock; permit the board of directors to establish the number of directors; provide that directors may only be removed for cause and only with the approval of 66 2/3% of our stockholders; require super-majority voting to amend some provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws; authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock that our board of directors could use to implement a stockholder rights plan; eliminate the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our amended and restated bylaws; and establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at annual stockholder meetings. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Section 203 imposes certain restrictions on merger, business combinations and other transactions between us and holders of 15% or more of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, any action asserting a breach of fiduciary duty, any action asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law or any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees and may discourage these types of lawsuits. Alternatively, if a court were to find the choice of forum provision contained in our certificate of incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. 40 Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K Table of Contents I TEM 1B. UN RESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES We own our Pleasanton, California corporate headquarters, which currently accommodates our principal executive, development, engineering, marketing, business development, employee success, finance, legal, information technology and administrative activitie s. We expect that our corporate headquarters will support the overall growth of our business for the near term. We also lease offices in San Francisco and San Carlos, California; Princeton, New Jersey; New York, New York; Hilliard, Ohio; Fort Washington and Radnor, Pennsylvania; Australia; Brazil; Canada; China; France; Germany; Hungary; India Japan; Korea; Mexico; Singapore; Spain; Thailand; Ukraine and the United Kingdom. We expect to expand our facilities capacity in certain field locations during our fiscal year ending January 31, 2019. We may further expand our facilities capacity after January 31, 2019 as our employee base grows. We believe that we will be able to obtain additional space on commercially reasonable terms. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS From time to time, we may be involved in legal proceedings and subject to claims incident to the ordinary course of business. For information regarding certain current legal proceedings, see note 11 of the notes to our consolidated financial statements , which is incorporated herein by reference. California Non-Compete Matter . On July 17, 2017, we filed a complaint in the Superior Court of the State of California in the County of Alameda against Medidata, QuintilesIMS, and Sparta Systems, Inc. ( Veeva Systems Inc. v. Medidata Solutions, Inc., Quintiles IMS Incorporated, IMS Software Services, LTD. , and Sparta Systems, Inc. , Case No. RG17868081.) Our Complaint seeks declaratory and injunctive relief concerning the use of non-compete, confidentiality, and non-disparagement agreements by these companies. On January 4, 2018, we filed a First Amended Complaint. All the defendants have moved to dismiss Veevas First Amended Complaint (termed a demurrer in state court). Medidata and Sparta have also filed anti-SLAPP motions under California law alleging their conduct is protected by the First Amendment. The Court is scheduled to hear motions on June 20, 2018. Discovery is currently stayed. Although the results of legal proceedings and claims cannot be predicted with certainty, we believe we are not currently a party to any other legal proceedings, the outcome of which, if determined adversely to us, would individually or taken together have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows, or financial position. Regardless of the outcome, such proceedings can have an adverse impact on us because of defense and settlement costs, diversion of resources and other factors, and there can be no assurances that favorable outcomes will be obtained. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 41 Table of Contents PART II. ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Market Price of Class A Common Stock Our Class A common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol VEEV. The following table sets forth for the indicated periods the high and low closing sales prices of our Class A common stock as reported by the New York Stock Exchange. High Low Fiscal year ended January 31, 2018 First quarter $ 53.62 $ 42.46 Second quarter $ 66.82 $ 54.01 Third quarter $ 65.57 $ 54.35 Fourth quarter $ 62.97 $ 54.00 Fiscal year ended January 31, 2017 First quarter $ 27.65 $ 20.61 Second quarter $ 37.99 $ 26.71 Third quarter $ 42.06 $ 37.31 Fourth quarter $ 47.36 $ 37.54 There is no public trading market for our Class B common stock. Dividend Policy We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination to declare cash dividends will be made at the discretion of our board of directors, subject to applicable laws, and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, general business conditions and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. Stockholders As of January 31, 2018, we had 14 holders of record of our Class A common stock and 63 holders of record of our Class B common stock. The actual number of holders of Class A common stock is greater than this number of record holders and includes stockholders who are beneficial owners but whose shares are held in street name by brokers and other nominees. This number of holders of record also does not include stockholders whose shares may be held in trust by other entities. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers None. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities None. 42 Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K Table of Contents Stock Performance Graph This performance graph shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference into any of our other filings under the Exchange Act or the Securities Act except to the extent we specifically incorporate it by reference into such filing. This chart compares the cumulative total return on our common stock with that of the S&P 500 Index and the S&P 1500 Application Software Index. The chart assumes $100 was invested at the close of market on October 16, 2013, which was our initial trading day, in the Class A common stock of Veeva Systems Inc., the S&P 500 Index and the S&P 1500 Application Software Index, and assumes the reinvestment of any dividends. Our offering price of our Class A common stock in our IPO, which had a closing stock price of $37.16 on October 16, 2013, was $20.00 per share. The stock price performance on the following graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. 10/16/2013 1/31/2014 1/31/2015 1/31/2016 1/31/2017 1/31/2018 Veeva Systems Inc. 100.00 85.55 77.40 64.85 113.91 169.16 S&P 500 100.00 106.69 121.87 121.06 145.32 183.70 S&P 1500 Application Software Index 100.00 109.00 117.65 135.26 169.77 250.55 Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 43 Table of Contents I TEM 6. SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto and with Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which are included elsewhere in this Form 10K. The consolidated statement of income data for our fiscal years ended January 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, and the selected consolidated balance sheet data as of January 31, 2018 and 2017 are derived from, and are qualified by reference to, the audited consolidated financial statements and are included in this Form 10-K. The consolidated statement of income data for fiscal years ended January 31, 2015 and 2014 and the consolidated balance sheet data as of January 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 are derived from audited consolidated financial statements which, are not included in this Form 10K. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of our future results. The selected consolidated financial data in this section are not intended to replace our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, and are qualified in their entirety by the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Consolidated Statements of Income Data: (in thousands, except share data) Revenues: Subscription services $ 554,446 $ 434,316 $ 316,314 $ 233,063 $ 146,621 Professional services and other 131,125 109,727 92,907 80,159 63,530 Total revenues 685,571 544,043 409,221 313,222 210,151 Cost of revenues(1): Cost of subscription services 110,465 94,386 71,180 55,005 36,199 Cost of professional services and other 100,974 79,295 71,034 60,653 46,403 Total cost of revenues 211,439 173,681 142,214 115,658 82,602 Gross profit 474,132 370,362 267,007 197,564 127,549 Operating expenses(1): Research and development 132,051 96,750 65,976 41,156 26,327 Sales and marketing 130,898 116,803 80,984 56,203 41,507 General and administrative 60,391 48,841 41,458 30,239 20,411 Total operating expenses 323,340 262,394 188,418 127,598 88,245 Operating income 150,792 107,968 78,589 69,966 39,304 Other income (expense), net 7,842 1,667 28 (2,780 ) (804 ) Income before income taxes 158,634 109,635 78,617 67,186 38,500 Provision for income taxes 16,668 40,831 24,157 26,803 14,885 Net income $ 141,966 $ 68,804 $ 54,460 $ 40,383 $ 23,615 Net income attributable to Class A and Class B common stockholders, basic and diluted $ 141,966 $ 68,801 $ 54,413 $ 40,138 $ 10,405 Net income per share attributable to Class A and Class B common stockholders: Basic $ 1.01 $ 0.51 $ 0.41 $ 0.31 $ 0.20 Diluted $ 0.92 $ 0.47 $ 0.38 $ 0.28 $ 0.15 Weighted-average shares used to compute earnings per share attributable to Class A and Class B common stockholders: Basic 140,311 135,698 132,020 127,713 51,725 Diluted 153,681 147,578 144,977 144,204 68,024 44 Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K Table of Contents (1) Includes stock-based compensation as follows: Cost of revenues: Cost of subscription services $ 1,448 $ 1,109 $ 563 $ 273 $ 118 Cost of professional services and other 8,476 6,002 3,858 2,272 902 Research and development 17,782 11,937 7,249 3,844 1,700 Sales and marketing 16,288 13,271 6,861 3,221 1,788 General and administrative 10,055 8,479 5,727 4,715 2,442 Total stock-based compensation $ 54,049 $ 40,798 $ 24,258 $ 14,325 $ 6,950 As of January 31, 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: (in thousands) Cash and cash equivalents $ 320,183 $ 217,606 $ 132,179 $ 129,253 $ 262,507 Short-term investments 441,779 301,266 214,024 268,620 25,625 Working capital 693,460 465,081 314,685 366,314 267,115 Total assets 1,197,008 917,376 705,799 544,890 370,308 Deferred revenue 275,446 213,562 157,419 112,960 67,380 Additional paid-in capital 515,272 439,658 361,691 317,881 231,534 Total stockholders' equity 871,527 652,654 505,249 406,833 280,096 Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 45 Table of Contents I TEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our Selected Consolidated Financial Data and our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-K. In addition to historical consolidated financial information, the following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors. We discuss factors that we believe could cause or contribute to these differences below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K, including those set forth under Risk Factors and Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. Overview Veeva is a leading provider of industry cloud solutions for the global life sciences industry. We were founded in 2007 on the premise that industry-specific cloud solutions could best address the operating challenges and regulatory requirements of life sciences companies. Our products are designed to meet the unique needs of our customers and their most strategic business functionsfrom R&D to commercialization. Our products address a broad range of needsincluding multichannel CRM, content management, master data management, and data regarding healthcare professionals and organizationsand are designed to help life sciences companies bring products to market faster and more efficiently, market and sell more effectively, and maintain compliance with government regulations. Veeva Commercial Cloud, and in particular Veeva CRM, has made up the vast majority of our revenue historically. In our fiscal year ended January 31, 2018, we derived approximately 64% of our subscription services revenues and 61% of our total revenues from our Veeva Commercial Cloud solutions . The contribution of subscription services revenues and total revenues associated with our Veeva Vault solutions are expected to increase as a percentage of subscription services revenues and total revenues going forward. However, as compared to Veeva CRM, we have less experience selling certain applications within Veeva Vault and Veeva Commercial Cloud. We are also extending certain of our solutions to outside the life sciences industry in North America and Europe. Although certain of our Veeva Vault applications have begun to achieve meaningful market acceptance within the life sciences industry, to the extent that our more recently introduced solutions do not continue to achieve significant market acceptance, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. For our fiscal years ended January 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, our total revenues were $685.6 million, $544.0 million and $409.2 million, respectively, representing year-over-year growth in total revenues of 26% in fiscal year ended January 31, 2018 and 33% in fiscal year ended January 31, 2017. For our fiscal years ended January 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, our subscription services revenues were $554.4 million, $434.3 million and $316.3 million, respectively, representing year-over-year grow th in subscription services revenues of 28% in fiscal year ended January 31, 2018 and 37% in fiscal year ended January 31, 2017. We expect the growth rate of our total revenues and subscription services revenues to decline in future periods. We generated net income of $142.0 million, $68.8 million and $54.5 million for our fiscal years ended January 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. As of January 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, we served 625, 517, and 400 customers, respectively. As of January 31, 2018 and 2017, we had 311 and 270 Veeva Commercial Cloud customers, respectively, and 449 and 334 Veeva Vault customers, respectively. The combined customer counts for Veeva Commercial Cloud and Veeva Vault exceed the total customer count in each year because some customers subscribe to products in both areas. Veeva Commercial Cloud customers are those customers that have at least one of our Commercial Cloud products. Veeva Vault customers are those customers that have at least one Vault product. Many of our Veeva Vault applications are used by smaller, earlier stage pre-commercial companies, some of which may not reach the commercialization stage. Thus, the potential number of Veeva Vault customers is significantly higher than the potential number of Veeva Commercial Cloud customers. 46 Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K Table of Contents Additionally, in September 2015, we completed our acquisition of the companies referred to as Zinc Ahead in an all-cash transaction. We continue to convert the end users of the Zinc Ahead solutions to our Vault PromoMats application. However, we may not retain and convert existing Zinc Ahead customers to our Vault PromoMats application to the extent we previously planned, which could adversely affect our business. Customers who elect to continue their use of Zinc Aheads Zinc MAPS pro duct will be supported through at least 2020. For a further description of our business and products, see Business above. New Revenue Recognition Standard Under Topic 606 Our results of operations below are presented under Topic 605. Our expectations for revenues, cost of revenues, and operating expenses for our fiscal year ending January 31, 2019 are based on Topic 606. Refer to note 1 of the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for details regarding Topic 606, including adjusted amounts for historical periods. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance Investment in Growth. We have invested and intend to continue to invest aggressively in expanding the breadth and depth of our product portfolio. We expect to continue to invest in research and development, to expand existing solutions and build new solutions; in sales and marketing, to promote our solutions to new and existing customers and in existing and expanded geographies and industries; in professional services to ensure the success of our customers implementations of our solutions; and in other operational and administrative functions to support our expected growth. We anticipate that our headcount will increase as a result of these investments. We also expect our total operating expenses will continue to increase over time, which could have a negative impact on our operating margin. Adoption of Our Solutions by Existing and New Customers. Most of our customers initially deploy our solutions to a limited number of end users within a division or geography and may only initially deploy a limited set of our available solutions. Our future growth is dependent upon our existing customers continued success and their renewals of subscriptions to our solutions, expanded deployment of our solutions within their organizations, and their purchase of subscriptions to additional solutions. Our growth is also dependent on the adoption of our solutions by new customers. Subscription Services Revenue Retention Rate. A key factor to our success is the renewal and expansion of our existing subscription agreements with our customers. We calculate our annual subscription services revenue retention rate for a particular fiscal year by dividing (i) annualized subscription revenue as of the last day of that fiscal year from those customers that were also customers as of the last day of the prior fiscal year by (ii) the annualized subscription revenue from all customers as of the last day of the prior fiscal year. Annualized subscription revenue is calculated by multiplying the daily subscription revenue recognized on the last day of the fiscal year by 365. This calculation includes the impact on our revenues from customer non-renewals, expanded deployment of our solutions within their organizations, deployments of additional solutions or discontinued use of solutions by our customers, and price changes for our solutions. Historically, the impact of price changes on our subscription services revenue retention rate has been minimal. For our fiscal years ended January 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, our subscription services revenue retention rate was 121%, 127% and 125%, respectively. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 47 Table of Contents Components of Res ults of Operations Revenues We derive our revenues primarily from subscription services fees and professional services fees. Subscription services revenues consist of fees from customers accessing our cloud-based software solutions and subscription or license fees for our data solutions. We have included such on-going maintenance and hosting fees in our subscription services revenues . Professional services and other revenues consist primarily of fees from implementation services, configuration, data services, training and managed services related to our solutions. For our fiscal year ended January 31, 2018, subscription services revenues constituted 81% of total revenues and professional services and other revenues constituted 19% of total revenues. We enter into master subscription agreements with our customers and count each distinct master subscription agreement that has not been terminated or expired and that has orders for which we have recognized revenue in the quarter as a distinct customer for purposes of determining our total number of current customers as of the end of that quarter. We generally enter into a single master subscription agreement with each customer, although in some instances, affiliated legal entities within the same corporate family may enter into separate master subscription agreements. Divisions, subsidiaries and operating units of our customers often place distinct orders for our subscription services under the same master subscription agreement, and we do not count such distinct orders as new customers for purposes of determining our total customer count. With respect to data services customers that have not purchased one of our software solutions, we count as a distinct customer the party with a master subscription agreement and that has a known and recurring payment obligation. For purposes of determining our total customer count, we count each entity that uses a legacy Zinc Ahead product as a distinct customer if such entity is not otherwise a customer of ours. New subscription orders typically have a one-year term and automatically renew unless notice of cancellation is provided in advance. If a customer adds end users or solutions to an existing order, such additional orders will generally be coterminus with the anniversary date of the initial order, and as a result, orders for additional end users or solutions will commonly have an initial term of less than one year. Subscription orders are generally billed at the beginning of the subscription commencement date in annual or quarterly increments. Because the term of orders for additional end users or solutions is commonly less than one year and payment terms may also be quarterly, the annualized value of such orders that we enter into with our customers will not be completely reflected in deferred revenue at any single point in time. We have also agreed from time to time, and may agree in the future, to allow customers to change the renewal dates of their orders to, for example, align more closely with a customers annual budget process or to align with the renewal dates of other orders placed by other entities within the same corporate control group, or to change payment terms from annual to quarterly, or vice versa. Such changes typically result in an order of less than one year as necessary to align all orders to the desired renewal date and, thus, may result in a lesser increase to deferred revenue than if the adjustment had not occurred. Additionally, if a coterminus order of less than one year renews in the same fiscal year in which it was originally signed and has annual billing terms, the order will generate more deferred revenue in that fiscal year than the annual contract value of that order. Accordingly, we do not believe that changes on a quarterly basis in deferred revenue or calculated billings, a metric commonly cited by financial analysts that is the sum of the change in deferred revenue plus revenue, are accurate indicators of future revenues for any given period of time. Note that upon the adoption of Topic 606, the calculated billings metric will be the sum of the change in deferred revenue plus revenue minus the change in unbilled accounts receivable. With respect to solutions other than Veeva CRM and particularly with respect to our Veeva Vault applications, we have entered into a number of orders with terms of up to five years. The fees associated with such orders are typically not based on the number of end-users and typically escalate over the term of such orders at a pre-agreed rate to account for, among other factors, implementation and adoption timing and planned increased usage by the customer. Such multi-year orders are billed in annual or quarterly increments. 48 Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K Table of Contents Subscription services revenues are recognized ratably over the order term beginning when the solution has been provisioned to the customer. Our subscription services agreements are generally non-cancelable during the term, although customers typically have the right to terminate their agreements for cause in the event of material breach. Subscription services revenues are affect ed primarily by the number of customers, the number of end users (or other subscription usage metric) at each customer that uses our solutions and the number of solutions subscribed to by each customer. We utilize our own professional services personnel and, in certain cases, third-party subcontractors to perform our professional services engagements with customers. Our professional services engagements are primarily billed on a time and materials basis and revenues are typically recognized as the services are rendered. Certain professional services revenues are based on fixed fee arrangements and revenues are recognized based on the proportional performance method. In some cases, the terms of our time and materials and fixed fee arrangements may require that we defer the recognition of revenue until contractual conditions are met. In those circumstances, revenue recognition may be sporadic, based upon the achievement of such contractual conditions. Professional services revenues are affected primarily by our customers demands for implementation services, configuration, data services, training and managed services in connection with our solutions. Cost of Revenues Cost of subscription services revenues for all of our solutions consists of expenses related to our computing infrastructure provided by third parties, including salesforce.com and Amazon Web Services, personnel related costs associated with hosting our subscription services and providing support, including our data stewards, operating lease expense associated with computer equipment and software and allocated overhead, amortization expense associated with capitalized internal-use software related to our subscription services and amortization expense associated with purchased intangibles related to our subscription services. Cost of subscription services revenues for Veeva CRM and certain of our multichannel customer relationship management applications includes fees paid to salesforce.com for our use of the Salesforce1 Platform and the associated hosting infrastructure and data center operations that are provided by salesforce.com. We intend to continue to invest additional resources in our subscription services to enhance our product offerings and increase our delivery capacity. We may add or expand computing infrastructure capacity in the future, migrate to new computing infrastructure service providers, and make additional investments in the availability and security of our solutions. For example, we are currently migrating our cloud computing infrastructure to Amazon Web Services and will be continuing this migration through our fiscal quarter ending July 31, 2019. This migration increased our cost of revenues in absolute dollars during the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018. Cost of professional services and other revenues consists primarily of employee-related expenses associated with providing these services, including salaries, benefits and stock-based compensation expense, the cost of third-party subcontractors, travel costs and allocated overhead. The cost of providing professional services is significantly higher as a percentage of the related revenues than for our subscription services due to the direct labor costs and costs of third-party subcontractors. Operating Expenses We accumulate certain costs such as building depreciation, office rent, utilities and other facilities costs and allocate them across the various departments based on headcount. We refer to these costs as allocated overhead. Research and Development . Research and development expenses consist primarily of employee-related expenses, third-party consulting fees, hosted infrastructure costs, and allocated overhead, offset by any internal-use software development costs capitalized during the same period. We continue to focus our research and development efforts on adding new features and applications, increasing the functionality and enhancing the ease of use of our cloud-based applications. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 49 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing . Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of employee-relat ed expenses, sales commissions, marketing program costs, amortization expense associated with purchased intangibles related to our customer contracts, customer relationships and brand, travel-related expenses and allocated overhead. Sales commissions and o ther program spend costs are expensed as incurred. Consequently, the recognition of this expense on our income statement generally precedes the recognition of the related revenue. General and Administrative . General and administrative expenses consist of employee-related expenses for our executive, finance and accounting, legal, employee success, management information systems personnel and other administrative employees. In addition, general and administrative expenses include fees related to third-party legal counsel, fees related to third-party accounting, tax and audit services, other corporate expenses and allocated overhead. Other Income, Net Other income, net consists primarily of transaction gains or losses on foreign currency, net of hedging costs, interest income and amortization of premiums paid on investments. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists of federal and state income taxes in the United States and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions. See note 8 of the notes to our consolidated financial statements. New Accounting Pronouncements Adopted in Fiscal 2018 Refer to note 1 of the notes to our consolidated financial statements for a full description of the recent accounting pronouncements adopted during the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Stranded Tax Effects in AOCI In February 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2018-02, "Income Statement-Reporting Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income." This update will allow reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings for stranded tax effects resulting from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (Tax Act). ASU 2018-02 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those years. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in any interim period for reporting periods for which financial statements have not yet been issued. We are currently evaluating the impact on our consolidated financial statements. 50 Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K Table of Contents Intangibles and Goodwill In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-04, IntangiblesGoodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment, which eliminates Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. Under ASU 2017-04, an entity should perform its annual, or interim, goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. An entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting units fair value; however, the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. Additionally, an entity should consider income tax effects from any tax-deductible goodwill on the carrying amount of the reporting unit when measuring the goodwill impairment loss, if applicable. ASU 2017-04 is effective for annual or interim goodwill impairment tests in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and early adoption is permitted for impairment tests performed on testing dates after January 1, 2017. ASU 2017-04 is to be applied on a prospective basis. We are currently evaluating the timing of adoption and do not expect the adoption of ASU 2017-04 to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Restricted Cash In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-18, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Restricted Cash (a consensus of the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force, which requires that amounts generally described as restricted cash or restricted cash equivalents be included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown on the statement of cash flows. This standard is effective for our interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017 and we have elected not to early adopt. We do not anticipate this standard will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements as we do not have any material restricted cash arrangements. Leases In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases, which requires that lease arrangements longer than 12 months result in an entity recognizing an asset and liability. The updated guidance is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and early adoption is permitted. While we are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this standard on our consolidated financial statements, we currently anticipate that the adoption of this standard will have a material impact on our consolidated balance sheets. We do not expect to early adopt this accounting policy. Financial Instruments In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, Financial Instruments. ASU 2016-01, among other things, requires equity investments, with certain exceptions, to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income and clarifies that an entity should evaluate the need for a valuation allowance on a deferred tax asset related to available-for-sale securities in combination with the entitys other deferred tax assets. This standard is effective for our interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017 and we have elected not to early adopt. We currently do not expect this standard to impact deferred tax assets on our consolidated financial statements. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 51 Table of Contents Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 On December 22, 2017, the Tax Act was enacted into law and amended certain provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (IRC). Amendments to the IRC, include, among others, a reduction of the corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018, a transition tax on accumulated foreign earnings (transition tax), the shift from a worldwide to a territorial tax regime, and a limitation on the deductibility of executive compensation under IRC Section 162(m). Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 740, Income Taxes (Topic 740), requires us to recognize the effect of the Tax Act in the period of enactment, such as remeasuring our U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities as well as reassessing the net realizability of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. However, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, Income Tax Accounting Implications of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (SAB 118), which allows companies the ability to record provisional amounts during a measurement period not to extend more than one year beyond the Tax Act enactment date. Since the Tax Act was passed late in 2017 and further guidance and accounting interpretations are expected over the next 12 months, our provisional estimate on the effect of the Tax Act in our financial statements remains subject to change. We have considered the impact of the transition tax, and we expect to complete our analysis within the measurement period in accordance with SAB 118. Results of Operations The following tables set forth selected consolidated statements of operations data and such data as a percentage of total revenues for each of the periods indicated: Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2018 2017 2016 (in thousands) Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Data: Revenues: Subscription services $ 554,446 $ 434,316 $ 316,314 Professional services and other 131,125 109,727 92,907 Total revenues 685,571 544,043 409,221 Cost of revenues(1): Cost of subscription services 110,465 94,386 71,180 Cost of professional services and other 100,974 79,295 71,034 Total cost of revenues 211,439 173,681 142,214 Gross profit 474,132 370,362 267,007 Operating expenses(1): Research and development 132,051 96,750 65,976 Sales and marketing 130,898 116,803 80,984 General and administrative 60,391 48,841 41,458 Total operating expenses 323,340 262,394 188,418 Operating income 150,792 107,968 78,589 Other income, net 7,842 1,667 28 Income before income taxes 158,634 109,635 78,617 Provision for income taxes 16,668 40,831 24,157 Net income $ 141,966 $ 68,804 $ 54,460 (1) Includes stock-based compensation as follows: Cost of revenues: Cost of subscription services $ 1,448 $ 1,109 $ 563 Cost of professional services and other 8,476 6,002 3,858 Research and development 17,782 11,937 7,249 Sales and marketing 16,288 13,271 6,861 General and administrative 10,055 8,479 5,727 Total stock-based compensation $ 54,049 $ 40,798 $ 24,258 52 Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K Table of Contents Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2018 2017 2016 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Data: Revenues: Subscription services 80.9 % 79.8 % 77.3 % Professional services and other 19.1 20.2 22.7 Total revenues 100.0 100.0 100.0 Cost of revenues: Cost of subscription services 16.1 17.3 17.4 Cost of professional services and other 14.7 14.6 17.4 Total cost of revenues 30.8 31.9 34.8 Gross profit 69.2 68.1 65.2 Operating expenses: Research and development 19.3 17.8 16.1 Sales and marketing 19.1 21.5 19.8 General and administrative 8.8 9.0 10.1 Total operating expenses 47.2 48.3 46.0 Operating income 22.0 19.8 19.2 Other income, net 1.1 0.3 Income before income taxes 23.1 20.1 19.2 Provision for income taxes 2.4 7.5 5.9 Net income 20.7 % 12.6 % 13.3 % Revenues Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2018 to 2017 2017 to 2016 2018 2017 2016 % Change % Change (dollar amounts in thousands) Revenues: Subscription services $ 554,446 $ 434,316 $ 316,314 28 % 37 % Professional services and other 131,125 109,727 92,907 20 18 Total revenues $ 685,571 $ 544,043 $ 409,221 26 33 Percentage of revenues: Subscription services 81 % 80 % 77 % Professional services and other 19 20 23 Total revenues 100 % 100 % 100 % Fiscal 2018 Compared to Fiscal 2017. Total revenues increased $141.5 million, of which $120.1 million was from growth in subscription services revenues. The increase in subscription services revenues consisted of $71.6 million of subscription services revenue attributable to Veeva Vault solutions and $48.5 million of subscription services revenue attributable to Veeva Commercial Cloud solutions. The geographic mix of subscription services revenues, which is primarily measured by the estimated location of end users or usage of our subscription services, was 54% from North America, 30% from Europe and other and 16% from Asia in fiscal year ended January 31, 2018 as compared to subscription services revenues of 53% from North America, 30% from Europe and other and 17% from Asia in fiscal year ended January 31, 2017. Professional services and other revenues increased $21.4 million. The increase in professional services revenues was due primarily to new customers requesting implementation and deployment related professional services and existing customers requesting professional services related to expanding deployments or the deployment of newly purchased solutions. The increase was primarily driven by the professional services revenues associated with our Veeva Vault solutions. The geographic mix of professional services and other revenues, as measured by the estimated location of the resources performing the services, was 60% from North America, 28% from Europe and other and 12% from Asia in fiscal years ended January 31, 2018 and 2017. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 53 Table of Contents Subscription services revenues were 81% of total revenues for fiscal year ended January 31, 2018 , compared to 80% of total revenues for fiscal year ended January 31, 2017, reflecting the faster growth rate of our subscription services revenues as compared to the growth rate of our professional services revenues. Existing customers that are expanding their deployment of an existing Veeva product often do not require the same level of professional services for such expansions as compared with the level required for new customers or implementations of new products by existing customers. Over time, we expect the proportion of our total revenues from subscription services to increase. Fiscal 2017 Compared to Fiscal 2016. Total revenues increased $134.8 million, of which $118.0 million was from growth in subscription services revenues. The increase in subscription services revenue consisted of $69.0 million of subscription services revenue attributable to Veeva Vault solutions, including the full year contribution from the acquired Zinc Ahead business, and $49.0 million of subscription services revenue attributable to Veeva Commercial Cloud solutions. The geographic mix of subscription services revenues, which is primarily measured by the estimated location of end users or usage of our subscription services, was 53% from North America, 30% from Europe and other and 17% from Asia in fiscal year ended January 31, 2017 as compared to subscription services revenues of 53% from North America, 28% from Europe and other and 19% from Asia in fiscal year ended January 31, 2016. Professional services and other revenues increased $16.8 million. The increase in professional services revenues was due primarily to new customers requesting implementation and deployment related professional services and existing customers requesting professional services related to expanding deployments or the deployment of newly purchased solutions. The geographic mix of professional services and other revenues, as measured by the estimated location of the resources performing the services, was 60% from North America, 28% from Europe and other and 12% from Asia in fiscal year ended January 31, 2017 as compared to 62% from North America, 27% from Europe and other and 11% from Asia in fiscal year ended January 31, 2016. Subscription services revenues were 80% of total revenues for fiscal year ended January 31, 2017, compared to 77% of total revenues for fiscal year ended January 31, 2016, reflecting the faster growth rate of our subscription services revenues as compared to the growth rate of our professional services and other revenues as our customers have expanded their use of our solutions across new divisions, new geographies, and new products. Costs and Expenses Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2018 to 2017 2017 to 2016 2018 2017 2016 % Change % Change (dollar amounts in thousands) Cost of revenues: Cost of subscription services $ 110,465 $ 94,386 $ 71,180 17 % 33 % Cost of professional services and other 100,974 79,295 71,034 27 12 Total cost of revenues $ 211,439 $ 173,681 $ 142,214 22 22 Gross margin percentage: Subscription services 80 % 78 % 77 % Professional services and other 23 28 24 Total gross margin percentage 69 % 68 % 65 % Gross profit $ 474,132 $ 370,362 $ 267,007 28 % 39 % Headcount (at period end) 783 623 512 26 % 22 % 54 Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K Table of Contents Fiscal 2018 Compared to Fiscal 2017. Cost of revenues increased $37.8 million, of which $16.1 million was related to cost of subscription services. The increase in cost of subscription services was primarily due to an increase in the number of end users of our subscription services, which drove an increase of $6.2 million in fees paid to salesforce.com and a $3.8 million increase in computing infrastructure costs, a nd $2.1 million in duplicative costs associated with the migration of our computing infrastructure. In addition, we had an 8% increase in the headcount of our subscription services team, which drove a $2.9 million increase in employee compensation-related costs (includes an increase of $0.3 million in stock-based compensation). We expect cost of subscription services revenues to increase in absolute dollars in the near term, as we renew existing orders and enter into new orders for our subscription services . In addition, we expect to continue to incur temporary duplicate infrastructure costs associated with the migration of our computing infrastructure through our fiscal quarter ending July 31, 2019 for our Veeva Vault applications, Veeva Network application s, and certain other Veeva Commercial Cloud applications to Amazon Web Services. Cost of professional services and other revenues increased $21.7 million, primarily due to a 33% increase in headcount of our professional services team, which drove a $17.6 million increase in employee compensation-related costs (includes an increase of $2.5 million in stock-based compensation). The increase in employee compensation-related costs is primarily driven by the increase in headcount during the period. In addition, we had an increase in third-party subcontractor costs of $1.3 million. We expect cost of professional services and other revenues to increase in absolute dollars in the near term as we add personnel to our global professional services organization. Fiscal 2017 Compared to Fiscal 2016. Cost of revenues increased $31.5 million, of which $23.2 million was related to cost of subscription services. The increase in cost of subscription services was primarily due to an increase in the number of users of our subscription services, which drove an increase of $7.0 million in fees paid to salesforce.com, a $4.7 million increase in third-party data center costs, and a $3.3 million increase in costs primarily related to third party data stewards for KOL and OpenData products. In addition, we had a 40% increase in the headcount of our subscription services team, which drove a $5.5 million increase in employee compensation-related costs (includes an increase of $0.5 million in stock-based compensation and the full year impact of the headcount from the acquired Zinc Ahead business). We also had a $1.6 million increase in amortization of purchased intangibles primarily as a result of the Zinc Ahead acquisition. Cost of professional services and other revenues increased $8.3 million, primarily due to a 15% increase in headcount of our professional services team, which drove a $10.6 million increase in employee compensation-related costs (includes an increase of $2.2 million in stock-based compensation and the full year impact of the headcount from the acquired Zinc Ahead business). This increase was offset by a decrease of $3.4 million in third-party subcontractor costs. Gross profit as a percentage of total revenues for fiscal years ended January 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 was 69%, 68% and 65%, respectively. The increases compared to the prior periods is largely due to an increase in the proportion of total revenues attributable to subscription services revenues, which have higher gross margins, as compared to professional services and other revenues, as well as the continued growth of our Veeva Vault, Veeva Network master data management solutions, and our newer multichannel CRM applications that compliment Veeva CRM, all of which have slightly higher subscription services gross margins than our core Veeva CRM application. We expect gross margin to slightly increase in the fiscal year ending January 31, 2019 due to the growth of our Vault products, which have a higher gross margin profile relative to our core CRM product. Operati ng Expenses and Operating Margin Operating expenses include research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses. As we continue to invest in our growth through hiring, we expect operating expenses to increase in absolute dollars and slightly as a percentage of revenue in the near term. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 55 Table of Contents Research and Development Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2018 to 2017 2017 to 2016 2018 2017 2016 % Change % Change (dollar amounts in thousands) Research and development $ 132,051 $ 96,750 $ 65,976 36% 47% Percentage of total revenues 19 % 18 % 16 % Headcount (at period end) 753 607 480 24% 26% Fiscal 2018 Compared to Fiscal 2017. Research and development expenses increased $35.3 million, primarily due to a 24% increase in headcount during the period, which drove an increase of $30.9 million in employee compensation-related costs (includes an increase of $5.8 million in stock-based compensation). There was also an increase of $2.9 million primarily associated with our migration to Amazon Web Services to support the development and testing of our product infrastructure, platform, and applications. This increase was offset by $1.1 million of capitalized internal-use software development costs during the period. Fiscal 2017 Compared to Fiscal 2016. Research and development expenses increased $30.8 million, primarily due to a 26% increase in headcount during the period, which drove an increase of $27.3 million in employee compensation-related costs (includes an increase of $4.7 million in stock-based compensation and the full year impact of the headcount acquired from the acquired Zinc Ahead business). The expansion of our headcount in this area was to support the increased number of products that were under development. We expect research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars and may increase as a percentage of revenue in the near term, primarily due to higher headcount as we continue to add research and development personnel, invest in our solutions, and develop new technologies. Sales and Marketing Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2018 to 2017 2017 to 2016 2018 2017 2016 % Change % Change (dollar amounts in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 130,898 $ 116,803 $ 80,984 12% 44% Percentage of total revenues 19 % 22 % 20 % Headcount (at period end) 432 401 338 8% 19% Fiscal 2018 Compared to Fiscal 2017. Sales and marketing expenses increased $14.1 million, primarily due to an 8% increase in headcount, which drove an increase of $12.2 million in employee compensation-related costs (includes an increase of $3.0 million in stock-based compensation). In addition, there was an increase of $1.4 million in marketing program costs. Fiscal 2017 Compared to Fiscal 2016. Sales and marketing expenses increased $35.8 million, primarily due to a 19% increase in headcount, which drove an increase of $29.1 million in employee compensation-related costs (includes an increase of $6.4 million in stock-based compensation and the full-year impact of the headcount from the acquired Zinc Ahead business as well as an increase of $5.5 million in sales commissions). In addition, there was a $2.4 million increase in amortization expense primarily associated with the Zinc Ahead purchased intangibles related to acquired customer contracts, customer relationships and brand as well as a $1.3 million increase in travel-related costs. 56 Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K Table of Contents We expect sales and marketing expenses to continue to grow in absolute dollars in the near term, primarily due to employee-related expen ses as we increase our headcount to support our sales and marketing efforts associated with our newer solutions and our continued expansion of our sales capacity across all our solutions. Upon the adoption of Topic 606, we will be capitalizing and amortizi ng commissions, whereas we previously expensed these in the period in which they were incurred. Previously, this would have reduced sales and marketing expenses as compared to their treatment under Topic 605. However, unrelated to Topic 606, we have change d our sales compensation model for our fiscal year ending January 31, 2019 to a higher percentage of fixed versus variable compensation. We believe this better aligns compensation to our long-term and strategic selling approach. Due to this change, we expe ct the impact from Topic 606 on sales and marketing expenses to be immaterial for our fiscal year ending January 31, 2019. General and Administrative Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2018 to 2017 2017 to 2016 2018 2017 2016 % Change % Change (dollar amounts in thousands) General and administrative $ 60,391 $ 48,841 $ 41,458 24% 18% Percentage of total revenues 9 % 9 % 10 % Headcount (at period end) 203 163 144 25% 13% Fiscal 2018 Compared to Fiscal 2017. General and administrative expenses increased $11.6 million, primarily due to a 25% increase in headcount which drove an increase of $6.0 million in employee compensation-related costs (includes an increase of $1.6 million in stock-based compensation), an increase of $5.4 million in legal fees related to litigation activity during the period and an increase of $1.5 million related to third-party accounting professional services costs primarily related to the implementation of new accounting standards and tax-related activities. This increase was offset by a decrease of $2.3 million in deferred compensation associated with the acquired Zinc Ahead business. Fiscal 2017 Compared to Fiscal 2016. General and administrative expenses increased $7.4 million, primarily due to a 13% increase in headcount which drove an increase of $6.9 million in employee compensation-related costs (includes an increase of $2.8 million in stock-based compensation and the full year impact of the headcount from the acquired Zinc Ahead business), an increase of $1.1 million in deferred compensation associated with the acquired Zinc Ahead business, and an increase of $0.7 million in expense for software subscriptions for internal use. This increase was offset by $2.2 million in one-time transaction costs for the acquired Zinc Ahead business in the prior period. We expect general and administrative expenses to continue to grow in absol ute dollars in the near term as we continue to invest in our business and infrastructure. Such costs include increases in headcount in our finance, legal and employee success functions, third-party legal fees, particularly in relation to the matters described in Item 3. Legal Proceedings, and additional accounting, tax and compliance-related fees. We also expect an increase in general and administrative expenses related to the stock-based compensation associated with a stock option grant to our CEO on January 10, 2018 (see note 9 of the notes to our consolidated financial statements for further detail). Other Income, Net Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2018 to 2017 2017 to 2016 2018 2017 2016 % Change % Change (dollar amounts in thousands) Other income, net $ 7,842 $ 1,667 $ 28 370% 5854% Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 57 Table of Contents Fiscal 2018 Compared to Fiscal 2017. Other income, net increased $6.2 million, primarily due to an increase in interest and other income of $3.9 million due to higher cash and cash equivalent balances and higher yield in the current period. In addition, there was an increase in foreign currency gains of $2.2 million during the period, which includes gains and losses from the underlying foreign currency exposures partially offset by h edge positions. We continue to experience foreign currency fluctuations primarily due to the impact resulting from the periodic re-measurement of our foreign currency balances that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the ent ities in which they are recorded. Our results of operations are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly changes in the Euro, British Pound Sterling, Japanese Yen and Chinese Yuan. We may continue to experienc e favorable or adverse foreign currency impacts due to volatility in these currencies. Fiscal 2017 Compared to Fiscal 2016. Other income, net increased $1.6 million, primarily due to $0.8 million higher interest income and a decrease of $0.8 million in foreign currency losses. The higher interest income net of investment amortization compared to the prior year period was primarily attributable to our higher cash and investment balances during the current year as well as lower cash and investment balances in the prior year period due to the Zinc Ahead acquisition. Provision for Income Taxes Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2018 to 2017 2017 to 2016 2018 2017 2016 % Change % Change (dollar amounts in thousands) Income before income taxes $ 158,634 $ 109,635 $ 78,617 45% 39% Provision for income taxes 16,668 40,831 24,157 -59% 69% Effective tax rate 10.5 % 37.2 % 30.7 % Our effective tax rate was 11%, 37% and 31% for the years ended January 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Our effective tax rate in all periods is the result of the mix of income earned in various tax jurisdictions that are subject to a broad range of income tax rates. The provision for income taxes differs from the tax computed at the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate due primarily to income earned in jurisdictions with lower statutory tax rates, state taxes, the U.S. research and development tax credit, equity compensation, the U.S. domestic production activity deduction, and foreign income subject to taxation in the United States. As discussed in notes 1 and 8 of the consolidated financial statements, we adopted ASU 2016-09 on February 1, 2017. We recorded all income tax effects of share-based awards in the provision for income taxes in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income on a prospective basis. Prior to adoption, we recognized excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation in excess of par value to the extent that the related tax deduction reduced income taxes payable. We are currently under audit by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for our income tax return for fiscal year ended January 31, 2015 and for our employment tax for calendar years 2015 and 2016. We believe that the returns for the years under examination were prepared appropriately and were filed correctly with the IRS. Currently, fiscal years ended January 31, 2015 and forward remain open for IRS income tax audit. 58 Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K Table of Contents Fiscal 2018 Compared to Fiscal 2017. During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018, our effective tax rate decre ased primarily due to the adoption of ASU 2016-09 on February 1, 2017, the first day of fiscal 2018. The adoption of this guidance on a prospective basis resulted in the recognition of excess tax benefits related to equity compensation in our provision for income taxes of $45.8 million, which lowered our effective tax rate by 2750 basis points for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018. Fiscal 2017 Compared to Fiscal 2016. Our effective tax rate increased 650 basis points primarily due to the absence of a one-time deferred tax asset benefit in the United States of 960 basis points, which was taken in the prior year period related to the Zinc Ahead acquisition, and a 300 basis-point increase associated with the mix of jurisdictional rates from foreign operations. These increases were partially offset by a 570 basis-point decrease from the release of valuation allowances in the same period. In addition, we may experience material changes to effective tax rate based on the enactment of the Tax Act. See Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 above for more information. We expect additional provisions of the Tax Act, such as the amendment to Section 162(m) to apply to us in the future. We will continue to identify and analyze other applicable provisions from the 2017 Act that could impact our fiscal year ending January 31, 2019 and beyond. The ultimate impact of the Tax Act will also depend on changes in interpretations, assumptions, and guidance and actions we may take in response to those and the Tax Act. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In our public disclosures, we have provided non-GAAP measures, which we define as financial information that has not been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or GAAP. In addition to our GAAP measures, we use these non-GAAP measures internally for budgeting and resource allocation purposes and in analyzing our financial results. For the reasons set forth below, we believe that excluding the following items from our non-GAAP financial measures provides information that is helpful in understanding our operating results, evaluating our future prospects, comparing our financial results across accounting periods, and comparing our financial results to our peers, many of which provide similar non-GAAP financial measures. Stock-based compensation expenses. We exclude stock-based compensation expenses from our non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses that we exclude from our internal management reporting processes. We also find it useful to exclude these expenses when we assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses and resource allocations when budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. Moreover, because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of award types that companies can use under FASB ASC Topic 718, we believe excluding stock-based compensation expenses allows investors to make meaningful comparisons between our recurring core business operating results and those of other companies. Amortization of purchased intangibles. We incur amortization expense for purchased intangible assets in connection with acquisitions of certain businesses and technologies. Amortization of intangible assets is a non-cash expense and is inconsistent in amount and frequency because it is significantly affected by the timing, size of acquisitions and the inherent subjective nature of purchase price allocations. Because these costs have already been incurred and cannot be recovered, and are non-cash expenses, we exclude these expenses for internal management reporting processes. We also find it useful to exclude these charges when assessing the appropriate level of various operating expenses and resource allocations when budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. Investors should note that the use of intangible assets contributed to our revenues earned during the periods presented and will contribute to our future period revenues as well. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 59 Table of Contents Capitalization of internal-use software development expenses and the subsequent amortization of the capitalized expenses. We capitalize certain costs incurred for the development of computer software for internal use and then amortize those costs over the estimated useful life. Capitalization and amortizat ion of software development costs can vary significantly depending on the timing of products reaching technological feasibility and being made generally available. Our internal management reporting processes exclude both the capitalization of software (whi ch would otherwise result in a reduction in net research and development operating expenses) and the amortization of capitalized software (which would otherwise result in an increase in cost of subscription revenues) when preparing budgets, plans and revie wing internal performance. Moreover, because of the variety of approaches taken and the subjective assumptions made by other companies in this area, we believe that excluding the effects of capitalized software costs allows investors to make more meaningfu l comparisons between our operating results and those of other companies. Deferred compensation associated with the Zinc Ahead acquisition. The Zinc Ahead share purchase agreement, as revised, called for share purchase consideration to be deferred and paid at a rate of one-third of the deferred consideration amount per year to certain former Zinc Ahead employee shareholders and option holders who remain employed with us on each deferred consideration payment date. In accordance with GAAP, these payments are being accounted for as deferred compensation and the expense is recognized over the requisite service period. We view this deferred compensation expense as an unusual acquisition cost associated with the Zinc Ahead acquisition and find it useful to exclude it in order to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. We believe excluding this deferred compensation expense from our non-GAAP measures may allow investors to make more meaningful comparisons between our recurring operating results and those of other companies. Income tax effects on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses. The income tax effects that are excluded from the non-GAAP measures relate to the imputed tax impact on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses due to stock-based compensation, purchased intangibles, capitalized internal-use software and deferred compensation associated with the Zinc Ahead acquisition for GAAP and non-GAAP measures. Limitations on the use of Non-GAAP financial measures There are limitations to using non-GAAP financial measures because non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures provided by other companies. The non-GAAP financial measures are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. In addition, they are subject to inherent limitations as they reflect the exercise of judgments by management about which items are adjusted to calculate our non-GAAP financial measures. We compensate for these limitations by analyzing current and future results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis and also by providing GAAP measures in our public disclosures. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. We encourage investors and others to review our financial information in its entirety, not to rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business, and to view our non-GAAP financial measures in conjunction with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. 60 Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K Table of Contents The following table reconciles the specific items excluded from GAAP metrics in the calculation of non-GAAP metrics for the periods shown below: Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2018 2017 2016 Operating income on a GAAP basis $ 150,792 $ 107,968 $ 78,589 Stock-based compensation expense 54,049 40,798 24,258 Amortization of purchased intangibles 7,790 8,216 4,308 Capitalization of internal-use software (1,733 ) (586 ) (431 ) Amortization of internal-use software 619 663 755 Deferred compensation associated with Zinc Ahead acquisition 532 2,815 1,120 Operating income on a non-GAAP basis $ 212,049 $ 159,874 $ 108,599 Net income on a GAAP basis $ 141,966 $ 68,804 $ 54,460 Stock-based compensation expense 54,049 40,798 24,258 Amortization of purchased intangibles 7,790 8,216 4,308 Capitalization of internal-use software (1,733 ) (586 ) (431 ) Amortization of internal-use software 619 663 755 Deferred compensation associated with Zinc Ahead acquisition 532 2,815 1,120 Income tax effect on non-GAAP adjustments (60,294 ) (12,759 ) (10,017 ) Net income on a non-GAAP basis $ 142,929 $ 107,951 $ 74,453 Net income allocated to participating securities on a GAAP basis $ $ (3 ) $ (47 ) Net income allocated to participating securities from non-GAAP adjustments 1 (18 ) Net income allocated to participating securities on a non-GAAP basis (2 ) (65 ) Net income attributable to common stockholders on a non-GAAP basis $ 142,929 $ 107,949 $ 74,388 Diluted net income per share on a GAAP basis $ 0.92 $ 0.47 $ 0.38 Stock-based compensation expense 0.36 0.27 0.16 Amortization of purchased intangibles 0.05 0.06 0.03 Capitalization of internal-use software (0.01 ) Amortization of internal-use software Deferred compensation associated with Zinc Ahead acquisition 0.02 0.01 Income tax effect on non-GAAP adjustments (0.39 ) (0.09 ) (0.07 ) Diluted net income per share on a non-GAAP basis $ 0.93 $ 0.73 $ 0.51 Liquidity and Capital Resources Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2018 2017 2016 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities (1) $ 233,437 $ 144,011 $ 80,154 Net cash used in investing activities (154,722 ) (96,652 ) (96,683 ) Net cash provided by financing activities (1) 20,773 37,976 19,406 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 3,089 92 49 Net change in cash and cash equivalents $ 102,577 $ 85,427 $ 2,926 (1) During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018, we adopted ASU 2016-09, Compensation-Stock Compensation: Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment. Refer to note 1New Accounting Pronouncements Adopted in Fiscal 2018 for further details. This adoption resulted in a $8.6 million and $45.8 million increase in net cash provided by operating activities and a corresponding decrease in net cash provided by financing activities for the three months and fiscal year ended January 31, 2018, respectively. Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 61 Table of Contents Our principal sources of liquidity continue to be comprised of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, as well as cash flows generated from our operations. At January 31, 2018, our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments totaled $762.0 million, of which $48.4 million represented cash and cash equivalents held outside of the United States. Non-U.S. cash and cash equivalents have been earmarked for indefinite reinvestment in our operations outside the United States and, therefore, no U.S. current or deferred taxes have been accrued related to these balances. We believe our U.S. sources of cash and liquidity are sufficient to meet our business needs in the United States and do not expect that we will nee d to repatriate the funds we have designated as indefinitely reinvested outside the United States. Under currently enacted tax laws, should our plans change and we were to choose to repatriate some or all of the funds we have designated as indefinitely reinvested outside the United States, such amounts may be subject to certain jurisdictional taxes. We have financed our operations primarily through cash generated from operations. We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs over at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including our growth rate, subscription renewal activity, the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the ongoing investments in technology infrastructure, the introduction of new and enhanced solutions and the continuing market acceptance of our solutions. We may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services and technologies and intellectual property rights. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Our largest source of operating cash inflows is cash collections from our customers for subscription services. We also generate significant cash flows from our professional services arrangements. The first quarter of our fiscal year is seasonally the strongest quarter for cash inflows due to the timing of our billings and collections. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for employee-related expenditures, fees to salesforce.com, third-party professional services costs, employee travel costs, and leases for office space. Fiscal 2018 Compared to Fiscal 2017. Net cash provided by operating activities was $233.4 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018. Our cash provided by operating activities during the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018 primarily reflected our net income of $142.0 million, adjustments for non-cash items of $73.0 million, and a net increase in our operating assets and liabilities of $18.5 million. Non-cash charges included $54.0 million of stock-based compensation expense, $14.3 million of depreciation and amortization expense, and $1.4 million of amortization of premiums on short-term investments . The net changes in operating assets and liabilities included an increase of $61.8 million in deferred revenue resulting primarily from increased orders from new and existing customers, which was offset by a decrease of $50.7 million in accounts receivable related to the seasonal nature of our billings and the timing of collections. Fiscal 2017 Compared to Fiscal 2016. Net cash provided by operating activities was $144.0 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2017. Our cash provided by operating activities during the fiscal year ended January 31, 2017 primarily reflected our net income of $68.8 million, adjustments for non-cash items of $51.5 million, and the net increase in our operating assets and liabilities of $23.7 million. Non-cash charges included $40.8 million of stock-based compensation expense, $13.8 million of depreciation and amortization expense and $1.9 million of amortization of premiums on short-term investments . The net changes in operating assets and liabilities included an increase of $56.2 million in deferred revenue resulting primarily from increased orders from new and existing customers, which was offset by a decrease of $38.1 million in accounts receivable related to the seasonal nature of our billings and the timing of collections. 62 Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K Table of Contents Cash Flows from Investing Activities The cash flows from investing activities primarily relate to cash used for the purchase of marketable securities, net of maturities. We also use cash to invest in capital assets to support our growth , including the continuing build-out of our corporate headquarters located in Pleasanton, California, which was complete as of the end of the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018 . Fiscal 2018 Compared to Fiscal 2017. Net cash used in investing activities was $154.7 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018 resulting primarily from $437.9 million in net purchases of marketable securities, $9.6 million in cash used for purchases of property and equipment to support the growth of our business, including the build-out of our new corporate headquarters and $1.7 million of capitalized internal-use software development costs. The cash outflows were offset by $294.7 million provided from net maturities of marketable securities. Fiscal 2017 Compared to Fiscal 2016. Net cash used in investing activities was $96.7 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2017 resulting primarily from $314.8 million in purchases of short-term investments and $6.9 million in cash used for purchases of property and equipment to support the growth of our business, including the build-out of our new corporate headquarters. The cash outflows were offset by $225.6 million provided from net maturities of marketable securities. Cash Flows from Financing Activities The cash flows from financing activities relate to stock option exercises. Fiscal 2018 Compared to Fiscal 2017. Net cash provided by financing activities was $20.8 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018 related to the proceeds from employee stock option exercises. Fiscal 2017 Compared to Fiscal 2016. Net cash provided by financing activities was $38.0 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2017 resulting from $25.6 million in excess tax benefits from our employee stock plans and $12.4 million in proceeds from employee stock option exercises. Please note that in the fiscal year ended January 31, 2017, cash flows from financing activities also included excess tax benefits from stock option exercises. Commitments Our principal commitments consist of obligations for minimum payment commitments to salesforce.com and leases for office space. On March 3, 2014, we amended our agreement with salesforce.com. The agreement, as amended, requires that we meet minimum order commitments of $500 million over the term of the agreement, which ends on September 1, 2025, including true-up payments if the orders we place with salesforce.com have not equaled or exceeded the following aggregate amounts within the timeframes indicated: (i) $250 million for the period from March 1, 2014 to September 1, 2020 and (ii) the full amount of $500 million by September 1, 2025. As of January 31, 2018, the future non-cancelable minimum payments under these commitments were as follows: Payments due by period Total Less than 1 year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years More than 5 years (in thousands) Salesforce.com commitments $ 285,835 $ 5,681 $ 30,154 $ $ 250,000 Operating lease obligations 17,487 4,955 7,309 3,875 1,348 Total $ 303,322 $ 10,636 $ 37,463 $ 3,875 $ 251,348 Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K 63 Table of Contents The amounts in the table above are associated with agreements that are enforceable and legally binding, which specify significant terms including payment terms, related services and the approximate timing of the transaction. Obligations under agreements th at we can cancel without a significant penalty are not included in the table. We anticipate leasing additional office space in various locations around the world to support our growth. In addition, our existing lease agreements often provide us with an option to renew. We expect our future operating lease obligations will increase as we expand our operations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any relationships with unconsolidated organizations or financial partnerships, such as structured finance or special purpose entities that would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. In the preparation of these consolidated financial statements, we are required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe that the assumptions, judgments and estimates involved in the accounting for revenue recognition, valuation of acquired intangible assets, and income taxes have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements. These areas are key components of our results of operations and are based on complex rules which require us to make judgments and estimates. Historically, our assumptions, judgments and estimates in accordance with our critical accounting policies have not materially differed from actual results. For a more detailed discussion of these accounting policies and our use of estimates, refer to note 1 of the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. Revenue Recognition We consider revenue recognition to be a significant accounting policy. For a description of our application of GAAP to our revenue recognition, see note 1 of the notes to our consolidated financial statements. Stock-Based Compensation We consider compensation expense related to stock-based transactions, including the assumptions used in the determination of the fair value of option awards to be a significant accounting policy. For a description of our assumptions used for our stock-based compensation policy, see note 9 of the notes to our consolidated financial statements. We adopted ASU 2016-09 on February 1, 2017. Upon adoption, we elected to account for forfeitures as they occur and to no longer estimate for forfeitures. We will continue to use judgment in evaluating the assumptions related to our stock-based compensation expense on a prospective basis. As we continue to accumulate additional data related to our common stock, we may have refinements to our estimates, which could materially impact our future stock-based compensation expense. 64 Veeva Systems Inc. | Form 10-K Table of Contents I TEM 7A.