ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS References in this report (the Quarterly Report) to we, us or the Company refer to Jaws Spitfire Acquisition Corporation. References to our management or our management team refer to our officers and directors, and references to the Sponsor refer to Spitfire Sponsor LLC. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) and Section 21E of the Exchange Act that are not historical facts, and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected and projected. All statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this Form 10-Q including, without limitation, statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. Words such as expect, believe, anticipate, intend, estimate, seek and variations and similar words and expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements relate to future events or future performance, but reflect managements current beliefs, based on information currently available. A number of factors could cause actual events, performance or results to differ materially from the events, performance and results discussed in the forward-looking statements. For information identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the Risk Factors section of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020 filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The Companys securities filings can be accessed on the EDGAR section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Except as expressly required by applicable securities law, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated in the Cayman Islands on September 11, 2020 for the purpose of effecting a merger, share exchange, asset acquisition, share purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses or entities that have not yet selected. While we may pursue an acquisition opportunity in any business, industry, sector, or geographical location, we intend to focus on industries that complement our managements background and to capitalize on the ability of our management team to identify and acquire a business. We may pursue a transaction in which our shareholders immediately, prior to completion of our initial business combination, would collectively own a minority interest in the post-business combination company. We intend to effectuate our initial business combination using cash from the proceeds of this offering and the sale of the private placement warrants, our shares, debt or a combination of cash, equity and debt. The issuance of additional shares in a business combination: may significantly dilute the equity interest of investors in this offering, which dilution would increase if the anti-dilution provisions in the Class B ordinary shares resulted in the issuance of Class A ordinary shares on a greater than one-to-one basis upon conversion of the Class B ordinary shares; may subordinate the rights of holders of Class A ordinary shares if preference shares are issued with rights senior to those afforded our Class A ordinary shares; could cause a change in control if a substantial number of our Class A ordinary shares are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us by diluting the share ownership or voting rights of a person seeking to obtain control of us; may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our units, Class A ordinary shares and/or warrants; and may not result in adjustment to the exercise price of our warrants. Similarly, if we issue debt or otherwise incur significant debt, it could result in: default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after an initial business combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt is payable on demand; 16 our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt is outstanding; our inability to pay dividends on our Class A ordinary shares; using a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for dividends on our Class A ordinary shares if declared, expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; limitations on our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; increased vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; and limitations on our ability to borrow additional amounts for expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our strategy and other purposes and other disadvantages compared to our competitors who have less debt. Results of Operations Our entire activity from September 11, 2020 (inception) through March 31, 2021, was in preparation for an initial public offering, and since our initial public offering, our activity has been limited to the search for a prospective initial business combination. We will not generate any operating revenues until after completion of our initial business combination. We expect to incur increased expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, we had net income of $16,083,886, which consisted of general and administrative expenses of $1,441,314 and a decrease in the fair value of warrant liabilities of $17,520,500. Liquidity and Capital Resources Until the consummation of our initial public offering, our only source of liquidity was an initial purchase of Class B ordinary shares by our Sponsor and loans from our Sponsor. On December 7, 2020, we consummated our initial public offering of 34,500,000 Units, which includes the full exercise by the underwriters of their over-allotment option in the amount of 4,500,000 Units, at $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $345,000,000. Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the private placement of an aggregate of 4,450,000 private placement warrants to our sponsor at a price of $2.00 per warrant, generating gross proceeds of $8,900,000. Following our initial public offering, the exercise of the over-allotment option and the sale of the private placement warrants, a total of $690,000,000 was placed in the Trust Account. We incurred $19,126,250 in transaction costs, including $6,900,000 of underwriting fees (including an aggregate amount of $450,000 reimbursed by the underwriters for application towards our offering expenses), $12,075,000 of deferred underwriting fees and $151,250 of other offering costs in connection with the initial public offering and the sale of the private placement warrants. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, net cash used in operating activities was $134,117. Net income of $16,083,886 was impacted by a decrease in the fair value of warrant liabilities of $17,520,500 and interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $4,700 Changes in operating assets and liabilities provided $1,307,197 of cash from operating activities. As of March 31, 2021, we had investments held in the Trust Account of $345,004,700. We intend to use substantially all of the funds held in the trust account, including any amounts representing interest earned on the trust account (less taxes payable and deferred underwriting commissions), to complete our initial business combination. We may withdraw interest income (if any) to pay taxes, if any. Our annual tax obligations will depend on the amount of interest and other income earned on the amounts held in the trust account. We expect the interest income earned on the amount in the trust account (if any) will be sufficient to pay our taxes. To the extent that our equity or debt is used, in whole or in part, as consideration to complete our initial business combination, the remaining proceeds held in the trust account will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business or businesses, make other acquisitions and pursue our growth strategies. At March 31, 2021, we had cash of $1,265,715 held outside of the Trust Account. We intend to use the funds held outside the Trust Account primarily to identify and evaluate target businesses, perform business due diligence on prospective target businesses, travel to and from the offices, properties or similar locations of prospective target businesses or their representatives or owners, review corporate documents and material agreements of prospective target businesses, and structure, negotiate and complete a Business Combination. Prior to the completion of our initial business combination, we will have available to us the $1,000,000 of proceeds held outside the trust account, as well as certain funds from loans from our sponsor, its affiliates or members of our management team. We will use these funds to primarily identify and evaluate target businesses, perform business due diligence on prospective target businesses, travel to and from the offices, plants or similar locations of prospective target businesses or their representatives or owners, review corporate documents and material agreements of prospective target businesses, and structure, negotiate and complete a business combination. 17 We do not believe we will need to raise additional funds following this offering in order to meet the expenditures required for operating our business prior to our initial business combination, other than funds available from loans from our sponsor, its affiliates or members of our management team. However, if our estimates of the costs of identifying a target business, undertaking in-depth due diligence and negotiating an initial business combination are less than the actual amount necessary to do so, we may have insufficient funds available to operate our business prior to our initial business combination. In order to fund working capital deficiencies or finance transaction costs in connection with an intended initial business combination, our sponsor or an affiliate of our sponsor or certain of our officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, loan us funds as may be required. If we complete our initial business combination, we may repay such loaned amounts out of the proceeds of the trust account released to us. In the event that our initial business combination does not close, we may use a portion of the working capital held outside the trust account to repay such loaned amounts but no proceeds from our trust account would be used for such repayment. Up to $1,500,000 of such loans may be convertible into warrants of the post-business combination entity at a price of $2.00 per warrant at the option of the lender. The warrants would be identical to the private placement warrants. The terms of such loans, if any, have not been determined and no written agreements exist with respect to such loans. Prior to the completion of our initial business combination, we do not expect to seek loans from parties other than our sponsor, its affiliates or our management team as we do not believe third parties will be willing to loan such funds and provide a waiver against any and all rights to seek access to funds in our trust account. Moreover, we may need to obtain additional financing to complete our initial business combination, either because the transaction requires more cash than is available from the proceeds held in our trust account, or because we become obligated to redeem a significant number of our public shares upon completion of the business combination, in which case we may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such business combination. If we have not consummated our initial business combination within the required time period because we do not have sufficient funds available to us, we will be forced to cease operations and liquidate the trust account. Related Party Transactions Class B Ordinary Shares On September 14, 2020, the Sponsor paid $25,000 to cover certain offering and formation costs of the Company in consideration for 7,187,500 Class B ordinary shares (the Founder Shares ). On December 2, 2020, the Company effected a share dividend, resulting in 8,625,000 Founder Shares outstanding. All share and per-share amounts have been retroactively restated to reflect the share dividend. The Founder Shares include an aggregate of up to 1,125,000 shares that are subject to forfeiture depending on the extent to which the underwriters over-allotment option is exercised, so that the number of Founder Shares will equal, on an as-converted basis, 20% of the Company s issued and outstanding ordinary shares after the Initial Public Offering. On December 7, 2020, the underwriters fully exercised the over-allotment option, thus these shares were no longer subject to forfeiture. The Sponsor has agreed, subject to limited exceptions, not to transfer, assign or sell any of the Founder Shares until the earliest of: (A) one year after the completion of a Business Combination and (B) subsequent to a Business Combination, (x) if the closing price of the Class A ordinary shares equals or exceeds $12.00 per share (as adjusted) for any 20 trading days within any 30-trading day period commencing at least 150 days after a Business Combination, or (y) the date on which the Company completes a liquidation, merger, share exchange or other similar transaction that results in all of the Public Shareholders having the right to exchange their Class A ordinary shares for cash, securities or other property. Private Placement Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, the Sponsor purchased 4,450,000 Private Placement Warrants at a price of $2.00 per Private Placement Warrant, for an aggregate purchase price of $8,900,000. Each Private Placement Warrant is exercisable to purchase one Class A ordinary share at a price of $11.50 per share, subject to adjustment. A portion of the proceeds from the Private Placement Warrants were added to the proceeds from the Initial Public Offering held in the Trust Account. If the Company does not complete a Business Combination within the Combination Period, the proceeds from the sale of the Private Placement Warrants will be used to fund the redemption of the Public Shares (subject to the requirements of applicable law), and the Private Placement Warrants and all underlying securities will expire worthless. 18 Related Party Loans The sponsor had agreed to loan us up to $300,000 (the Promissory Note ) to be used for the payment of costs related to the Initial Public Offering. The Note was non-interest bearing, unsecured and was due on the earlier of December 31, 2020 or the closing of the Initial Public Offering. JAWS Spitfire had borrowed $267,768 under the Promissory Note, which was fully repaid upon the closing of the Initial Public Offering on December 7, 2020. In addition, in order to finance transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination, the Sponsor or an affiliate of the Sponsor, or certain of the Company s officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, loan the Company funds as may be required ( Working Capital Loans ). If we complete a business combination, we would repay the Working Capital Loans out of the proceeds of the trust account released to us. In the event that a business combination does not close, we may use a portion of proceeds held outside the trust account to repay the Working Capital Loans but no proceeds held in the trust account would be used to repay the Working Capital Loans. Up to $1.5 million of such Working Capital Loans may be convertible into warrants of the post-business combination entity at a price of $1.50 per warrant at the option of the lender. The warrants would be identical to the private placement warrants. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Business Combination Agreement does not permit Working Capital Loans to convert into warrants. Except as set forth above, to date, the terms of the Working Capital Loans, if any, have not been determined and no written agreements exist with respect to such loans. Administrative Services Fee We agreed, commencing on the effective date of the Initial Public Offering through the earlier of our consummation of a business combination or our liquidation, to pay an affiliate of the Sponsor a monthly fee of $10,000 for office space, secretarial and administrative services. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, we incurred and paid $30,000 in fees for these services. Registration Rights Pursuant to a registration and shareholder rights agreement entered into on December 2, 2020, the holders of the Class B ordinary shares, private placement warrants and warrants that may be issued upon conversion of Working Capital Loans (and any Class A ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of the private placement warrants and warrants that may be issued upon conversion of Working Capital Loans) are entitled to registration rights. The holders of these securities are entitled to make up to three demands, excluding short form demands, that we register such securities. In addition, the holders have certain piggy-back registration rights with respect to registration statements filed subsequent to the completion of the Business Combination. However, the registration and shareholder rights agreement provides that we will not permit any registration statement filed under the Securities Act to become effective until termination of the applicable lock-up period. We will bear the expenses incurred in connection with the filing of any such registration statements. Deferred Underwriting Fees The underwriter was paid a cash underwriting discount of 2.00% of the gross proceeds of the Initial Public Offering, or $6,900,000, net of the $450,000 reimbursed by the underwriters to us for expenses incurred in connection with the Initial Public Offering. The underwriter is entitled to a deferred fee of $0.35 per unit, or $12,075,000 in the aggregate. The deferred fee will become payable to the underwriter from the amounts held in the trust account solely in the event that we complete a business combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2021, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K and did not have any commitments or contractual obligations. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of condensed financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. We have identified the following critical accounting policies: Derivative Warrant Liabilities We do not use derivative instruments to hedge exposures to cash flow, market, or foreign currency risks. We evaluate all of our financial instruments, including issued stock purchase warrants, to determine if such instruments are derivatives or contain features that qualify as embedded derivatives, pursuant to ASC 480 and ASC 815-15. The classification of derivative instruments, including whether such instruments should be recorded as liabilities or as equity, is re-assessed at the end of each reporting period. We issued 8,625,000 public warrants to investors in our initial public offering and issued 4,450,000 private placement warrants. All of our outstanding warrants are recognized as derivative liabilities in accordance with ASC 815-40. Accordingly, we recognize the warrant instruments as liabilities at fair value and adjust the instruments to fair value at each reporting period. The liabilities are subject to re-measurement at each balance sheet date until exercised, and any change in fair value is recognized in our statement of operations. The Company's valuation of the warrant liabilities utilized a Binomial Lattice in a risk-neutral framework (a special case of the Income Approach). The fair value of the private placement warrants utilized Level 3 inputs as it is based on the significant inputs not observable in the market as of March 31, 2021. The public warrants used Level 1 inputs as they were actively traded as of March 31, 2021. 19 Ordinary Shares Subject to Possible Redemption We account for our ordinary shares subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification ( ASC ) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. Ordinary shares subject to mandatory redemption is classified as a liability instrument and is measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable ordinary shares (including ordinary shares that features redemption rights that is either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) is classified as temporary equity. At all other times, ordinary shares are classified as shareholders equity. Our ordinary shares feature certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, ordinary shares subject to possible redemption is presented as temporary equity, outside of the shareholders equity section of our condensed balance sheets. Net Income (Loss) Per Ordinary Share We apply the two-class method in calculating earnings per share. Net income per ordinary share, basic and diluted for Class A redeemable ordinary shares is calculated by dividing the interest income earned on the Trust Account by the weighted average number of Class A redeemable ordinary shares outstanding since original issuance. Net loss per ordinary share, basic and diluted for Class B non-redeemable ordinary shares is calculated by dividing the net income (loss), less income attributable to Class A redeemable ordinary shares, by the weighted average number of Class B non-redeemable ordinary shares outstanding for the periods presented. Recently Adopted Accounting Standards In August 2020, the FASB issued Accounting Standard Update (the "ASU") No. 2020-06, DebtDebt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and HedgingContracts in Entitys Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40): Accounting for Convertible Instruments and Contracts in an Entitys Own Equity, which simplifies accounting for convertible instruments by removing major separation models required under current GAAP. The ASU also removes certain settlement conditions that are required for equity-linked contracts to qualify for the derivative scope exception and it also simplifies the diluted earnings per share calculation in certain areas. The Company early adopted the ASU on January 1, 2021. Adoption of the ASU did not impact the Companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Recent Accounting Standards Management does not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on our unaudited condensed financial statements. Contractual Obligations We do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities, other than an agreement to pay an affiliate of the Sponsor a monthly fee of $10,000 for office space, utilities and secretarial, and administrative support services provided to the Company. We began incurring these fees on December 7, 2020 and will continue to incur these fees monthly until the earlier of the completion of a Business Combination and the Companys liquidation. The underwriters are entitled to a deferred fee of $0.35 per Unit, or $12,075,000 in the aggregate. The deferred fee will become payable to the underwriters from the amounts held in the Trust Account solely in the event that we complete a Business Combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. Pursuant to a registration and shareholders rights agreement entered into on December 2, 2020, the holders of the Founder Shares, Private Placement Warrants and any warrants that may be issued upon conversion of Working Capital Loans (and any Class A ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of the Private Placement Warrants and warrants that may be issued upon conversion of the Working Capital Loans) will be entitled to registration rights pursuant to a registration and shareholder rights agreement. The holders of these securities are entitled to make up to three demands, excluding short form demands, that we register such securities. In addition, the holders have certain piggy-back registration rights with respect to registration statements filed subsequent to the completion of a Business Combination. However, the registration and shareholder rights agreement provides that we will not permit any registration statement filed under the Securities Act to become effective until termination of the applicable lockup period. We will bear the expenses incurred in connection with the filing of any such registration statements. JOBS Act On April 5, 2012, the JOBS Act was signed into law. The JOBS Act contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for qualifying public companies. We will qualify as an emerging growth company and under the JOBS Act will be allowed to comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements based on the effective date for private (not publicly traded) companies. We are electing to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards, and as a result, we may not comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. As such, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with public company effective dates. Additionally, we are in the process of evaluating the benefits of relying on the other reduced reporting requirements provided by the JOBS Act. Subject to certain conditions set forth in the JOBS Act, if, as an emerging growth company, we choose to rely on such exemptions we may not be required to, among other things, (i) provide an auditors attestation report on our system of internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, (ii) provide all of the compensation disclosure that may be required of non-emerging growth public companies under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, (iii) comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the PCAOB regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditors report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements (auditor discussion and analysis) and (iv) disclose certain executive compensation related items such as the correlation between executive compensation and performance and comparisons of executive compensation to median employee compensation. These exemptions will apply for a period of five years following the completion of our initial public offering or until we are no longer an emerging growth company, whichever is earlier. 20