Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis provides information which our management believes is relevant to an assessment and understanding of our results of operations and financial condition. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024 and our unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon our current expectations, estimates and projections, and involves numerous risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements due to, among other considerations, the matters discussed in the sections titled Risk Factors and Forward-looking Statements herein. During the year ended December 31, 2024, we identified immaterial errors in our previously issued financial statements. We have corrected the amounts as presented in this Item 2 accordingly. Refer to Notes 1 and 16 to the unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements included in Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information. Overview We seek to fulfill the promise of additive manufacturing, also referred to as 3D printing ("AM"), to deliver breakthroughs in performance, cost, and lead time in the production of high-value metal parts. We produce a fully integrated hardware and software solution based on our proprietary laser powder bed fusion ("L-PBF") technology, which greatly reduces and often eliminates the need for support structures. Our technology enables the production of highly complex, mission-critical parts that existing AM solutions cannot produce without the need for redesign or additional assembly. Our Sapphire Family of Printers give our customers who are in space, aviation, defense, automotive, energy and industrial markets the freedom to design and produce metal parts with complex internal features and geometries that had previously been considered impossible for AM. We believe our technology is years ahead of competitors. Our technology is novel compared to other AM technologies because of its ability to deliver high-value metal parts that have complex internal channels, structures, and geometries. This affords a wide breadth of design freedom for creating new metal parts and it enables replication of existing parts without the need to redesign the part to be manufacturable with AM. Because of these features, we believe our technology and product capabilities are highly valued by our customers. Our customers are primarily original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") and contract manufacturers ("CMs") who look to AM to solve issues with traditional metal parts manufacturing technologies. Those traditional manufacturing technologies rely on processes, including casting, stamping and forging, that typically require high volumes to drive competitive costs and have long lead times for production. Our customers look to AM solutions to produce assemblies that are lighter, stronger, and more reliable than those manufactured with traditional technologies. Our customers also expect AM solutions to drive lower costs for low-volume parts and substantially shorter lead times. However, many of our customers have found that other legacy AM technologies failed to produce the required designs for the high-value metal parts and assemblies that our customers wanted to produce with AM. As a result, other AM solutions often require that parts be redesigned so that they can be produced and frequently incur performance losses for high-value applications. In contrast, our technology can deliver complex high value metal parts with the design advantages, lower costs and faster lead times associated with AM, and generally avoids the need to redesign the parts. As a result, our customers have increasingly adopted our technology into their design and production processes. We believe our value is reflected in our sales patterns, as most of our customers initially purchased a single machine to validate our technology and have purchased additional systems over time as they have embedded our technology in their product roadmap and manufacturing infrastructure. We consider this approach a land and expand strategy, oriented around a demonstration of our value proposition followed by increasing penetration with key customers. Recent Developments Recent Debt and Equity Transactions and Change in Majority Ownership On December 24, 2024, the Company and Arrayed Note Acquisition Corp., a subsidiary of Arrayed Additive, Inc. (Arrayed), entered into a debt for equity exchange transaction where the Company issued 185,151,333 shares of the Companys common stock, in exchange for the cancellation of $22.4 million in principal amount of the Companys Secured Notes (the "Notes") plus $0.4 million of accrued interest on the Notes. As of March 31, 2025, Arrayed held $5.0 million in principal amount of the Notes, and as a result of the exchange transaction, became the owner of approximately 95% of the Companys issued and outstanding common stock. On February 24, 2025, the Company entered into Warrant Exchange Agreements with each of: (i) Highbridge Tactical Credit Master Fund, L.P. (HM); (ii) Highbridge Tactical Credit Institutional Fund, Ltd. (collectively with HM, the Highbridge Holders); (iii) Anson Investments Master Fund LP (AMF); (iv) Anson East Master Fund LP (collectively with AMF, the Anson Holders); 30 (v) High Trail Investments ON LLC (HTI), and (vi) HB SPV I Master LLC (together with HTI, the High Trail Holders), pursuant to which: (a) the Highbridge Holders and the Anson Holders agreed to exchange an aggregate of 902,247 registered warrants issued in April 2024 and an aggregate of 1,485,714 registered warrants issued in August 2024, and (b) the High Trail Holders agreed to exchange an aggregate of 2,277,117 unregistered warrants issued in April 2024 and July 2024, and an aggregate of 285,715 registered warrants issued in December 2023, for an aggregate of 14,852,379 shares (the Acquired Shares) of Companys common stock, respectively, equating in each case to an exchange ratio of three Acquired Shares for each warrant. On January 7, 2025, the Company issued a Senior Secured Convertible Promissory Note in the principal amount of $5,000,000 (the "January Note") to Thieneman Properties, LLC, an Indiana limited liability company. The January Note bears interest at a rate of 60.0% per annum, is payable in full on April 7, 2025 in the amount of $5,750,000 and if not paid on or prior to such date, will continue to accrue interest at the same rate until paid. The January Note may be prepaid in whole or in part at any time without penalty or premium and is convertible in the event of default into shares of the Companys common stock, at a fixed conversion price of $1.56 per share.On April 7, 2025, the Company paid an interest payment of $750,000, covering the first three months of interest on the January Note. On February 10, 2025, the Company issued a Senior Secured Convertible Promissory Note in the principal amount of $10,000,000 (the "February Note") to Thieneman Construction, Inc, an Indiana corporation, to be funded in two tranches of $5,000,000. The February Note bears interest at a rate of 30.0% per annum, is payable in full on the date that is six months from the date such tranche was funded, in the amount of $5,750,000 and if not paid on or prior to such date, will continue to accrue interest at the same rate until paid. The outstanding principal amount of the February Note is convertible into shares of the Company's common stock upon the occurrence of the Companys successful listing of shares of its common stock on a national securities exchange or the occurrence and during the continuation of an event of default, into common stock at a fixed conversion price of $1.00 per share. See Note 16 Subsequent Events in the notes to our unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report for additional information. Notwithstanding the recent debt and equity transactions, as described in Liquidity and Capital Resources and in Note 1 Description of Business and Basis of PresentationGoing Concern, Financial Condition and Liquidity and Capital Resources in the notes to the unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report, there continues to be a substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We do not have sufficient liquidity to meet our operating needs and satisfy our debt obligations for at least the next 12 months. The Company will need to engage in additional financings to fund our operations, continue to fund payroll for employees, and satisfy our obligations in the near term. Without such additional funding, we will not be able to continue operations and may be required to sell assets, liquidate and/or file for bankruptcy. Key Financial and Operational Metrics We believe that our performance and future success depend on many factors that present significant opportunities for us but also pose risks and challenges, including those discussed herein and in the section of the 2024 Form 10-K titled Risk Factors. We regularly evaluate several metrics, including the metrics presented in the table below, to measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, prepare financial projections, make strategic decisions, and establish performance goals for compensation and we periodically review and revise these metrics to reflect changes in our business. As of and for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Revenue ($ in millions) $ 9 $ 10 Bookings ($ in millions) $ 8 $ 17 Backlog ($ in millions) $ 18 $ 22 Bookings ($ in millions): Bookings ($ in millions) are defined as a confirmed order for a 3D printer system and printed parts in contracted dollars. Backlog ($ in millions): Backlog ($ in millions) is defined as the unfulfilled 3D printer systems and printed parts to be delivered to customers in contracted dollars as of period end. 31 Customer Concentration Our operating results for the foreseeable future will continue to depend on sales to a small group of customers. For the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, sales to the top three customers accounted for 70.7% and 49.9%, respectively, of our revenue. Of the top three customers for the three months ended March 31, 2025, two customers were different from the top three customers for the comparable period in 2024. While our objective is to diversify our customer base, we continue to be susceptible to risks associated with customer concentration. Continued Investment and Innovation We continue to be a customer-focused company working to develop innovative solutions to address customers needs and focus on our customers to identify the most impactful areas for research and development as we seek to further improve the capabilities of our AM solutions. We believe this process has contributed significantly to our development of the most advanced metal AM systems in the world. We believe that continued investments in our products are important to our future growth and, as a result, we will invest in enhancing our portfolio of AM solutions through certain research and development projects based on customer demand. Macroeconomic Conditions and Other World Events General economic and political conditions such as recessions, interest rates, fuel prices, inflation, foreign currency fluctuations, international tariffs, social, political and economic risks and acts of war or terrorism (including, for example, the ongoing military conflicts in Israel and in Ukraine and the economic sanctions related thereto), have added uncertainty in timing of customer orders and supply chain constraints. In 2024, we implemented a number of supply chain and manufacturing improvements in response and intend to continue to focus on driving further operational improvements during 2025 to reduce operating costs. See Risk Factors - Risks Related to Our Business and IndustryMarket conditions, economic uncertainty or downturns could adversely affect our business and operating results and We may be adversely affected by the effects of inflation or possible stagflation. Climate Change Material pending or existing climate change-related legislation, regulations, and international accords could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, including: (1) material past and/or future capital expenditures for climate-related projects, (2) material indirect consequences of climate-related regulation or business trends, such as the following: decreased/increased demand for goods or services that produce significant greenhouse gas emissions or are related to carbon-based energy sources; increased competition to develop innovative new products that result in lower emissions; increased demand for generation and transmission of energy from alternative energy sources; and any anticipated reputational risks resulting from operations or products that produce material greenhouse gas emissions and (3) material increased compliance costs related to climate change. In addition, extreme weather and other natural disasters may become more intense or more frequent, which may disrupt our operations or the operations of our suppliers and customers. Components of Results of Operations Revenue Our revenue is primarily derived from our AM fully integrated hardware and software solution based on our proprietary L-PBF technology. Our products include Sapphire, Sapphire 1MZ, Sapphire XC and Sapphire XC 1MZ metal AM printer using our L-PBF technology and Assure quality validation software (collectively referred to as the 3D Printer). Contracts for 3D Printers also include post-sale customer support services (Support Services), except for our distributor partners, which are qualified to perform support services. We sell our fully integrated hardware and software AM solutions through two types of transaction models: a 3D Printer sale transaction and a recurring payment transaction (Recurring Payment). Support services are included with a 3D Printer sale transaction and a Recurring Payment transaction. For 3D Printer sale transactions where the support service period has expired, customers may purchase extended support service contracts. 32 3D Printer sale transactions- fixed purchase price model. The timeframe from order to completion of the site acceptance test usually occurs over three to nine months. As we scale our production, we expect to reduce this timeframe. Contract consideration allocated to the 3D Printer is recognized at a point in time, which occurs upon transfer of control to the customer at shipment. The initial sales of 3D Printers and Support Services are included in one contract and are invoiced together. Contract consideration is allocated between the two performance obligations based on relative fair value. This allocation involves judgment and is periodically updated as new relevant information becomes available. Other revenue included under 3D Printer sales includes parts and consumables, such as filters, powder or build plates, that are sold to customers and recognized upon transfer of control to the customer at shipment. Recurring Payment transactions - are our leased 3D Printer transactions. We define our Recurring Payment transactions as operating leases. Under the leased 3D Printer transaction, the customer typically pays an amount for a lease which entitles the customer to a base number of hours of usage. For usage above that level, the customer typically pays an hourly usage fee. Most of our leases have a 12-month term, though in some instances the lease term is longer. Under this model, the customer typically pays a base rent and variable payments based on usage in excess of a defined threshold. Most of our leases have a 12-month term, though in certain cases the lease term is longer. Rapid Production Solutions (RPS) - RPS utilizes our deep engineering expertise, cutting-edge technology and a fleet of Sapphire XC large-format metal 3D printers to manufacture custom metal components in order to accelerate path to production for our customers. Support Services - are included with most 3D Printer sale transactions and Recurring Payment transactions. Support services consist of field service engineering, phone and email support, preventative maintenance, and limited on and off-site consulting support. A subsequent Extended Support Agreement is available for renewal after the initial contract period based on the then-fair value of the service, which is paid for separately. Support Service revenue is recognized over the contract period beginning with customer performance test acceptance. Cost of Revenue Our cost of revenue includes the Cost of 3D Printers, Cost of Recurring Payment and Cost of Support Services. Cost of 3D Printers includes the manufacturing cost of our components and subassemblies purchased from vendors for the assembly, as well as raw materials and assemblies, shipping costs and other directly associated costs. Cost of 3D Printers also includes allocated overhead costs from headcount-related costs, such as salaries, stock-based compensation, depreciation of manufacturing related equipment and facilities, and information technology costs. Cost of Recurring Payment includes depreciation of the leased equipment over the useful life of five years less the residual value, and an allocated portion of Cost of Support Services. Cost of RPS includes cost of raw materials, typically metal powder feedstock, direct and indirect labor, depreciation of 3D printers and other related equipment and facilities, utilities such as electricity and specialty gases, shipping costs and other directly associated costs. Cost of Support Services includes the cost of spare or replacement parts for preventive maintenance, installation costs, headcount-related costs such as salaries, stock-based compensation, depreciation of manufacturing related equipment and facilities, and information technology costs. The headcount-related costs are directly associated with the engineers dedicated to remote and on-site support, training, travel costs and other services costs. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Our gross profit is revenue less cost of revenue and our gross margin is gross profit as a percentage of revenue. The gross profit and gross margin for our products are varied and are expected to continue to vary from period to period due to the mix of products and services sold through a 3D Printer sale transaction, a Recurring Payment transaction, RPS offerings, services contracts, new product introductions and efforts to optimize our operational costs. Other factors affecting our gross profit include changes to our material costs, assembly costs that are themselves dependent upon improvements to yield, and any increase in assembly overhead to support a greater number of 3D Printers sold and markets served. 33 Research and Development Expenses Our research and development expenses represent costs incurred to support activities that advance the development of innovative AM technologies, new product platforms and consumables, as well as activities that enhance the capabilities of our existing product platforms. Our research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries and related personnel costs for individuals working in our research and development departments, including stock-based compensation, prototypes, design expenses, information technology costs and software license amortization, consulting and contractor costs, and an allocated portion of overhead costs, including depreciation of property and equipment used in research and development activities. Selling and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salaries and related personnel costs for individuals working in our sales and marketing departments, including stock-based compensation, costs related to trade shows and events, advertising, marketing promotions, travel costs and an allocated portion of overhead costs, including information technology costs and costs for customer validation. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries and related personnel costs for individuals associated with our executive, administrative, finance, legal, information technology and human resources functions, including stock-based compensation, professional fees for legal, audit and compliance, accounting and consulting services, general corporate costs, facilities, rent, information technology costs, insurance, bad debt expenses and an allocated portion of overhead costs, including equipment and depreciation and other general and administrative expenses. Interest Expense Interest expense primarily consists of interest incurred under our outstanding debt and finance leases. Gain (Loss) on Fair Value of Warrants Gain (loss) on valuation of warrant liabilities relates to the changes in the fair value of warrant liabilities which are subject to remeasurement at each balance sheet date. Gain (Loss) on Fair value of Contingent Earnout Liabilities Gain (loss) on valuation of contingent earnout liabilities relates to the changes in fair value of the contingent earnout liabilities in connection with the earnout shares, which are subject to remeasurement at each balance sheet date. Loss on warrant cancellation Loss on warrant cancellation relates to the loss recognized in conjunction with the February 2025 Warrant Exchange Agreement. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net includes interest earned on our bank sweep account, gains and losses on disposals of fixed assets, transaction costs related to the warrant inducement transaction and other miscellaneous income/expenses. Income Taxes No provision for federal and state income taxes was recorded for any periods presented due to projected losses, and we maintained a full valuation allowance on the deferred tax assets as of March 31, 2025 and 2024. We will continue to review our conclusions about the appropriate amount of the valuation allowance on a quarterly basis. If we were to generate profits, the U.S. valuation allowance position could be reversed in the foreseeable future. We expect a benefit to be recorded in the period the valuation allowance reversal is recorded and a higher effective tax rate in periods following the valuation allowance reversal. 34 Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 and 2024: The following table summarizes our historical results of operations for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Change % (In thousands, except for percentages) Revenue 3D Printer $7,523 $7,660 $(137) (1.8)% Recurring payment 470 (470) (100.0)% Support services 1,790 1,656 134 8.1% Other 7 7 100.0% Total Revenue 9,320 9,786 (466) (4.8)% Cost of revenue 3D Printer 7,540 9,394 (1,854) (19.7)% Recurring payment 12 315 (303) (96.2)% Support services 1,071 2,892 (1,821) (63.0)% Total cost of revenue 8,623 12,601 (3,978) (31.6)% Gross profit (loss) 697 (2,815) 3,512 (124.8)% Operating expenses Research and development 1,212 5,043 (3,831) (76.0)% Selling and marketing 2,275 4,809 (2,534) (52.7)% General and administrative 9,131 8,783 348 4.0% Total operating expenses 12,618 18,635 (6,017) (32.3)% Loss from operations (11,921) (21,450) 9,529 (44.4)% Interest expense (1,070) (3,897) 2,827 (72.5)% Loss on fair value of warrants (1,044) (2,620) 1,576 (60.2)% Loss on fair value of contingent earnout liabilities (437) 437 (100.0)% Loss on warrant cancellation (11,357) (11,357) 100.0% Other income (expense), net (11) 94 (105) (111.7)% Income (loss) before provision for income taxes (25,403) (28,310) 2,907 (10.3)% Provision for income taxes (8) (4) (4) 100.0% Net income (loss) $(25,411) $(28,314) $2,903 (10.3)% Revenue The following table presents the revenue disaggregated by products and service type, as well as the percentage of total revenue. Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Change % (In thousands, except for percentages) 3D Printer sales $7,523 80.7% $7,660 78.3% $(137) (1.8)% Recurring payment 470 4.8% (470) (100.0)% Support services 1,790 19.2% 1,656 16.9% 134 8.1% Other 7 0.1% 7 100.0% Total Revenue $9,320 100.0% $9,786 100.0% $(466) (4.8)% 35 Total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 was $9.3 million and $9.8 million, respectively, a decrease of $0.5 million, or 4.8%. 3D Printer sales were $7.5 million and $7.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively, a decrease of $0.2 million. The decrease in revenue was primarily attributed to the lower number of systems sold. The 3D Printer sales also included printed parts and consumables revenue. Recurring Payment revenue, structured as an operating lease, was $0 for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and $0.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The decrease was primarily attributable to a revenue reduction related to fewer operating lease transactions. Our Support Services revenue was $1.8 million and $1.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively, a increase of $0.1 million. The increase in Support Services revenue was primarily due to services provided to customers as a result of increased installed base. Other revenue was less than $0.1 million and $0 for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. Cost of Revenue The following table presents the Cost of Revenue disaggregated by product and service type, as well as the percentage of total cost of revenue. Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Change % (In thousands, except for percentages) Cost of Revenue Cost of 3D Printers $7,540 87.4% $9,394 74.5% $(1,854) (19.7)% Cost of Recurring Payment 12 0.1% 315 2.5% (303) (96.2)% Cost of Support Services 1,071 12.5% 2,892 23.0% (1,821) (63.0)% Total Cost of Revenue $8,623 100.0% $12,601 100.0% $(3,978) (31.6)% Total cost of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 was $8.6 million and $12.6 million, respectively, a decrease of $4.0 million, or 31.6%. Cost of 3D Printers was $7.5 million and $9.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. The decrease of $1.9 million was due to a decrease in number of systems sold for the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. Cost of Recurring Payment was less than $0.1 million and $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. This decrease of $0.3 million was primarily due to a decrease in depreciation of the equipment on lease and allocable Cost of Support Services as a result of fewer 3D Printers in service in the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to the three months March 31, 2024. Cost of Support Services was $1.1 million and $2.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. Cost of Support Services decreased by $1.8 million, due to the fixed costs associated with field service engineering labor and overhead in March 31, 2025, compared to March 31, 2024. In addition, field service engineering support cost has increased specifically with regard to increasing sales of Sapphire XC systems and introduction of the Sapphire 1MZ and Sapphire XC 1MZ systems in the field. We expect this to decrease on a per unit basis as the Sapphire XC, Sapphire 1MZ and Sapphire XC 1MZ system performance improves. We also expect our Cost of Support Services will increase with the delivery of more 3D Printer systems to customers. Cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue was 92.5% and 128.8% for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. The decrease in the cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue was primarily driven by lower cost associated with raw materials and direct labor efficiency improvements. We may experience increasing component costs from our suppliers due to international tarriffs and our current financial situation. We are currently unable to secure credit terms and volume discounts with our suppliers, causing us to pay a premium, in advance, or 36 source from alternate suppliers at unfavorable terms for our products. This has negatively impacted our cost of revenue and will continue to negatively impact our cost of revenue until our financial conditions improve and costs associated with tariffs ease. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Total gross profit (loss) was $0.7 million and $(2.8) million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. As a percentage of revenue, the gross margin was 7.5% and (28.8)% for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. The increase in gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2025 was primarily attributable to the lower cost associated with system revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2025, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. Our gross profit and gross margin are influenced by a number of factors, including: Product mix of Sapphire, and Sapphire XC systems; Average selling prices for our systems; Trends in materials and shipping costs; Production volumes that may impact factory overhead absorption; System reliability performance; and Impact of product mix changes, including new product introductions, and other factors, on our Cost of Support Services. Due to the aforementioned trends in customer orders and component costs, our gross profit and gross margin have been and will continue to be negatively impacted until our financial conditions improve. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses were $1.2 million and $5.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively, a decrease of $3.8 million. The decrease in research and development expenses was driven by a $2.8 million decrease in headcount, salaries and employee-related expenses, a decrease of $0.8 million in stock-based compensation, a decrease of $0.2 million in miscellaneous expenses. We expect research and development costs to remain at similar levels for the remainder of 2025 due to the maturation of our Sapphire family of systems and certain investments in improvements current product line and to increase in the long term as we continue to invest in enhancing and advancing our portfolio of AM solutions. Selling and Marketing Expenses Selling and marketing expenses were $2.3 million and $4.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively, a decrease of $2.5 million. The decrease was attributable to a decrease of $1.5 million in headcount, salaries and employee-related expenses, a $0.9 million decrease in stock-based compensation, and a $0.4 million decrease in marketing costs and initiatives. We expect selling and marketing expenses to increase for the remainder of 2025 as we re-engage with key customers and drive RPS traction. During the remainder of 2025, we intend to continue our focus on certain markets that show strong attendance at additive manufacturing conferences to build product awareness. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses were $9.1 million and $8.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively, an increase of $0.3 million. The increase was attributable to a $0.3 million increase in legal and other professional fees. We expect general and administrative expenses to decrease as a result of savings from our reduction in force implemented in late 2024. We continue to focus on our company-wide initiatives to reduce operating costs for the remainder of 2025 as we continue to 37 reducing our general and administrative expenses through reducing our reliance on outside consultants, managing facility costs, negotiating with vendors for improved pricing and enterprise level efficiency improvements. Interest Expense Interest expense was $1.1 million and $3.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively, due to the reduction in Senior Secured Notes and offset by the issuance of the Secured Secured Convertible Notes. We expect our interest expense will continue to decrease as a result of our reduced debt. Gain (loss) on Fair Value of Warrants The change in fair value of warrants resulted in a loss of $1.0 and $2.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively, and was related to the non-cash fair value change of the warrant liabilities driven by the relative change in our stock price. Gain (loss) on Fair value of Contingent Earnout Liabilities The change in fair value of the contingent earnout liability was $0 and $0.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively, and was related to the non-cash fair value change of the earnout liabilities driven by the relative change in our stock price Loss on Warrant Cancellation Loss on warrant cancellation was $11.4 million and $0 for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 and related to the loss recognized in conjunction with the February 2025 Warrant Exchange transaction. Other Income (Expense), Net Other (expense) and income, net was less than ($0.01) million and less than $0.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. Income Taxes No provision for federal and state income taxes was recorded for both the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 due to projected losses, and we maintained a full valuation allowance on the deferred tax assets as of March 31, 2025 and December 31, 2024. We will continue to review our conclusions about the appropriate amount of the valuation allowance on a quarterly basis. If we were to generate profits in the remainder of 2025 and beyond, the U.S. valuation allowance position could be reversed in the foreseeable future. We expect a benefit to be recorded in the period the valuation allowance reversal is recorded and a higher effective tax rate in periods following the valuation allowance reversal. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2025, the Company had approximately $3.9 million in cash and short-term investments and $4.6 million in accounts receivable. Our business requires substantial amounts of cash for operating activities, including salaries and wages paid to our employees, component and sub-assembly purchases, general and administrative expenses, and others. Our purchase commitments per terms and conditions with suppliers and vendors are cancellable in whole or in part prior to shipment. Purchase commitments (purchase orders) of $1.5 million for parts and assemblies are due upon receipt and will primarily be delivered throughout the remainder of 2025. If inventory is shipped, we will accrue a liability under accrued expenses. We have no other commitments and contingencies, except for the operating leases and the Secured Notes, the January Note, and the February Note. See Note 8, Leases, in the unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report for further discussion. During the three months ended March 31, 2025, we experienced less revenue growth than expected due to our focus on high-value customers, resulting in a small decrease in system sales as compared to the first quarter in 2024. As of March 31, 2025, we do not have sufficient working capital to meet our financial needs for the twelve-month period following the filing date of these 38 unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements. As such, we believe that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern for the twelve-month period following the issuance of these unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements. See Note 1 Description of Business and Basis of PresentationGoing Concern, Financial Condition and Liquidity and Capital Resources in the unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. On December 9, 2024, Arrayed Notes Acquisition Corp., a subsidiary of Arrayed Additive, Inc. purchased the Senior Secured Notes from then Note holders. On December 24, 2024, the Company and Arrayed Notes Acquisition Corp. (Arrayed) entered into a debt for equity exchange transaction where the Company issued 185,151,333 shares of the Companys common stock, in exchange for the cancellation of $22,382,000.00 in principal amount of the Companys Senior Secured Notes due 2026 plus $369,303.00 of accrued interest on the Notes. As of March 31, 2025, Arrayed held approximately $5.0 million in principal amount of the Notes, and was the owner of 95% of the Companys issued and outstanding common stock. On January 7, 2025, the Company issued the January Note, a Senior Secured Convertible Promissory Note in the principal amount of $5,000,000 to Thieneman Properties, LLC, an Indiana limited liability company. The Note is payable in full on April 7, 2025 in the amount of $5,750,000 and if not paid on or prior to such date, will continue to accrue interest at the same rate until paid. The Note may be prepaid in whole or in part at any time without penalty or premium and is convertible in the event of default into shares of the Companys common stock, at a fixed conversion price of $1.56 per share. On April 7, 2025, the Company paid an interest payment of $750,000, covering the first three months of interest on the January Note. On February 10, 2025, the Company issued the February Note, a Senior Secured Convertible Promissory Note in the principal amount of $10,000,000 to Thieneman Construction, Inc, an Indiana corporation, to be funded in two tranches of $5,000,000. The February Note bears interest at a rate of 30.0% per annum, is payable in full on the date that is six months from the date such tranche was funded, in the amount of $5,750,000 and if not paid on or prior to such date, will continue to accrue interest at the same rate until paid. The outstanding principal amount of the February Note is convertible upon the occurrence of the Companys successful listing of shares of its common stock on a national securities exchange or the occurrence and during the continuation of an Event of Default, into Common Shares at a fixed conversion price of $1.00 per share. We will need to engage in additional financings to fund our operations and satisfy our debt obligations in the near-term as well as to respond to business challenges and opportunities, including the need to repay the Secured Notes, provide working capital, continue to fund payroll for employees, improve our operating infrastructure, and continue to sustain operations. Accordingly, subject to our compliance with the covenants in the Secured Notes, to fund our operations, we will need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds, including seeking additional capital from public or private offerings of our equity or debt securities, electing to repay, restructure or refinance our existing indebtedness, or electing to borrow additional amounts under new credit lines or from other sources. We may also seek to raise additional capital, including from offerings of our equity or debt securities, on an opportunistic basis when we believe there are suitable opportunities for doing so. Additionally, our recent and projected financial results, and the related conditions that raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, and general concerns among potential investors and creditors about our financial well-being, may make securing additional financing and cost cutting activities on commercially reasonable terms or in an amount sufficient to fund our operations for at least 12 months especially difficult. More generally, our ability to meet our cash requirements depends on, among other things, our operating performance, competitive and industry developments, and financial market conditions, all of which are significantly affected by business, financial, economic, political, and other factors, many of which we may not be able to control or influence. To the extent that our actual operating results or other developments differ from our expectations, our liquidity will continue to be adversely affected. Debt Facilities As of March 31, 2025, our debt arrangements comprised the Secured Notes, the January Notes, and the February Notes, of which we had approximately $20.0 million aggregate principal amount outstanding as of March 31, 2025. See our other debt facilities as described in theLiquidity and Capital Resources section above. We do not hedge our exposure to changes in interest rates. A 10% change in interest rates would not have a material impact on annualized interest expense. 39 For more information, see Note 9, Debt, in the notes of the unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Cash Flow Summary The following table summarizes our cash flows for the nine months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Change (In thousands) Net cash used in operating activities $(12,349) $(20,523) $8,174 Net cash provided by investing activities $ $3,493 $(3,493) Net cash provided by financing activities $15,000 $285 $14,715 Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2025 was $12.5 million, consisting primarily of a net loss of $25.4 million, non-cash loss of $18.4 million described below, and a decrease in net operating assets of $5.9 million. The cash used from net operating assets was comprised of a decrease from accounts payable of $1.0 million, a decrease from contract liabilities of $2.6 million, a decrease from other net operating assets of $1.9 million, a decrease from prepaid expenses of $3.4 million related to insurance and vendor prepayments, and a decrease from inventories of $2.0 million for Sapphire XC, Sapphire 1MZ and Sapphire XC 1MZ system production, offset by an increase from other assets of $1.0 million and an increase from accrued expenses and other current liabilities of $0.2 million. The noncash loss of $18.4 million primarily consisted of the loss on cancelation of warrants of $11.4 million, stock-based compensation expense of $4.1 million, and the loss on fair value of warrants of $1.0 million Net cash used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $20.5 million, consisting primarily of a net loss of $28.3 million, non-cash loss of $12.7 million described below, and a decrease in net operating assets of $4.9 million. The decrease in net operating assets was comprised of a decrease from accounts payable of $4.2 million, a decrease from contract liabilities of $0.4 million, a decrease from other net operating assets of $1.7 million, a decrease in accrued expenses and other current liabilities of $0.2 million and a decrease from inventories of $2.6 million for Sapphire XC, Sapphire 1MZ and Sapphire XC 1MZ system production, offset by an increase from accounts receivable of $2.1 million due to timing of customer payments, and an increase from prepaid expenses of $1.1 million related to insurance and vendor prepayments. The noncash loss of $12.7 million primarily consisted of the stock-based compensation expense of $5.1 million, depreciation and amortization of $4.6 million and the loss on fair value of warrants of $2.6 million. We expect our cash used in operating activities to decrease, driven by our efforts to stabilize our working capital requirements through our expense reduction efforts and overall enterprise efficiency improvement programs. Investing Activities There was no cash provided by investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2025. Net cash provided by investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $3.5 million, consisting of maturities of available-for-sale investment securities of $3.5 million. We expect our capital expenditures to increase in 2025 compared to 2024 as we invest in printer capacity and related facilities for RPS. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2025 was $15.0 million, consisting of proceeds of $15.0 million from the issuance of the January Note and the February Note. Net cash provided by financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $0.3 million, consisting of proceeds of $0.3 million from the issuance of common stock upon exercise of stock options. We expect cash provided by financing activities to increase by issuing new equity or incurring new debt to continue operations, subject to our compliance with the covenants in the Secured Notes. Our future cash requirements and the adequacy of available funds 40 will depend on many factors, including our operating performance, competitive and industry developments, and financial market conditions. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2025 and December 31, 2024, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on Velo3Ds unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements, see Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the notes to the unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements in this Quarterly Report. Implications of Being an Emerging Growth Company Section 102(b)(1) of the JOBS Act exempts emerging growth companies from being required to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards until private companies are required to comply with the new or revised financial accounting standards. The JOBS Act provides that a company can choose not to take advantage of the extended transition period and comply with the requirements that apply to non-emerging growth companies, and any such election to not take advantage of the extended transition period is irrevocable. We are an emerging growth company as defined in Section 2(a)(19) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") and have elected to take advantage of the benefits of this extended transition period. We will elect to use this extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards that have different effective dates for public business entities and nonpublic business entities until the earlier of the date we (a) are no longer an emerging growth company or (b) affirmatively and irrevocably opt out of the extended transition period provided in the JOBS Act. This may make it difficult or impossible to compare our financial results with the financial results of another public company that is either not an emerging growth company or an emerging growth company that has chosen not to take advantage of the extended transition period exemptions because of the potential differences in accounting standards used. Please refer to Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report for the recent accounting pronouncements adopted and the recent accounting pronouncements not yet adopted for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024. We will remain an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act until the earliest of (a) December 31, 2025, (b) the last date of our fiscal year in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1.235 billion, (c) the last date of our fiscal year in which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer under the rules of the SEC or (d) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in nonconvertible debt securities during the previous three years. Implications of Being a Smaller Reporting Company We are a smaller reporting company as defined in Item 10(f)(1) of Regulation S-K. Smaller reporting companies may take advantage of certain reduced disclosure obligations, including, among other things, providing only two years of audited consolidated financial statements. We may continue to be a smaller reporting company even after we are no longer an emerging growth company. We will remain a smaller reporting company and may take advantage of certain scaled disclosures available to smaller reporting companies until the last day of the fiscal year in which (a) the market value of our voting and nonvoting common stock held by non-affiliates equals or exceeds $250.0 million measured on the last business day of that years second fiscal quarter and (b) our annual revenue equals or exceeds $100.0 million during the most recently completed fiscal year or our voting and nonvoting common stock held by non-affiliates equals or exceeds $700.0 million measured on the last business day of that years second fiscal quarter. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We evaluated the development and selection of our critical accounting policies and estimates and believe that the following involve a higher degree of judgement or complexity and are most significant to reporting our results of operations and financial position and are therefore discussed as critical. The following critical accounting policies reflect the significant estimates and judgements used in the preparation of our unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates and assumptions, and those differences could be material to our unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements. We re-evaluate our 41 estimates on an ongoing basis. For more information, see Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, included in the notes to the unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements in this Quarterly Report, and Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates in Part II, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024.