Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsRecent DevelopmentsRecent Debt and Equity Transactions and Change in Majority Ownership. Strategy for Growth The key elements listed below are the foundation for our growth plan to support innovation and our customers growing demand for additive manufacturing solutions. We remain committed to our land-and-expand strategy, whereby satisfied customers continue to purchase Sapphire printers due to the significant capabilities the technology provides to operations, product, and engineering teams. Focus on uncontested segments of the market We focus our sales efforts on customers with a need for parts which our proprietary L-PBF technology can produce but which cannot be produced by competitors AM technology. These include high-performance metal parts with complex internal geometries, including critical components within jet engines, fuel delivery systems and heat exchangers. These parts are fundamentally out of reach for other AM suppliers serving the high-value metal parts segment because their production process requires internal supports for complex internal geometries, which cannot be removed. Likewise, the processes required by traditional metal manufacturing processes (for example, welding of multiple parts into the desired assembly) often result in parts with lower performance, higher cost and/or longer lead times than the parts which our solution can produce. We generally do not compete in the segment of the AM market composed of applications which can be served by the multiple existing competitors in metal AM. Our primary focus is on those applications where demand for our solution is expected to be the strongest, thus supporting our long-term margins. Ensuring customer success We adopt a two-step approach to customer relationships, whereby we first aim to validate our technology with customers before working to more fully integrate our technology into customers designs and/or production processes. Upon building a strong customer relationship, our sales personnel and engineers collaborate with their customer counterparts to identify how our technology can add the greatest value to the customers ultimate product. We have found that this helps customers to best understand the potential for the wide breadth of design freedom that our products can deliver, which often leads to customers fully integrating our technology into their processes and making multiple follow-up purchases. This results in economies of scale, as fewer sales and engineering personnel are able to serve a larger number of machines that are concentrated with a smaller number of customers. In addition, by integrating our technology into customer designs, we effectively expand the uncontested market which we believe we are optimally suited to serve. As of March 26, 2024, our sales team has secured approximately $15 million in new order bookings since mid-December 2023, including more than 50% of bookings tied to key strategic accounts, which we believe demonstrates increased customer satisfaction and confidence in our technology. 10 Accelerate global acquisition of new customers We plan to increase the number of customer relationships we have globally in the coming years both organically and through distribution partnerships. In recent years, we have demonstrated that our technology can bring tremendous value across a number of use cases in the space, aviation and defense, automotive, energy and industrial segments. We plan to leverage the success from these deployments into sales to a number of new customers by further ramping our sales force in the coming years to drive new customer acquisition. In addition to our U.S. and European sales organization, we have also established relationships with distribution partners in the Asia-Pacific region (Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation, and Avaco) and Austria (SBO). Extend competitive advantage with higher quality and new products We plan to enhance the quality of newly manufactured Sapphire printersin the future to further extend our technological advantage relative to our competitors. Due to the success of our operational initiatives and product improvements, we have significantly reduced the installation time of Sapphire printers over the last year. Additionally, we have increased headcount of our customer service and quality teams to provide on-site support in all major metropolitan areas. Through reliability improvements, system uptime for key customers has increased and we have reduced the time it takes to resolve customer issues. Our Competitive Strengths Disruptive AM platform with the unique ability to produce complex designs In contrast to other L-PBF technologies, our proprietary L-PBF technology is capable of producing metal parts with complex internal geometries. Manufacturers of high-performance products have looked to AM to improve performance, reduce costs and shorten lead times relative to traditional metal parts manufacturers; however, other AM solutions have been historically limited because they must use internal supports to enable production of the part. Our technology delivers on the promise of AM, allowing customers a wide breadth of freedom to design products with consistently optimal performance characteristics. In addition to greater design freedom, our technology allows customers to consolidate assemblies of multiple metal parts into a single part that delivers a consistently stronger, lighter, better performing part at a lower cost than possible through traditional metal manufacturing techniques, while consistently maintaining the applicable density requirement for industrial metal portions of metallic 3D objects. Finally, our solutions enable the production of high-value, low-volume spare parts on demand, which may result in meaningful reductions to requirements for inventory. These factors create an uncontested segment in the market with customers we are ideally positioned to serve. Existing relationships with blue chip customers across our target end markets We have built relationships with blue chip customers across all of our target industries, including space, aviation and defense, automotive, energy and other industrial applications. In addition to our direct OEM customer relationships, we also continue to expand our relationships with our indirect customers who specify our 3D printers for the manufacture of components by CMs that use our 3D printers. While these customers provide no direct revenue, they drive parts volume demand for our CMs and therefore, indirectly, our 3D printer demand. We have built these relationships by demonstrating the value that our differentiated technology can achieve and integrating our solutions into their operations, resulting in repeat sales to multiple customers within a short span of time. Our success in partnering with existing customers has also validated our differentiated technology for other potential customers. We believe that our successes with these efforts provide meaningful proof of our proprietary technology and will enable our strategy of rapid customer acquisition in the coming years. Fully Integrated turnkey solution that can be easily integrated into customer operations Our fully integrated metal AM solution can be integrated into customer operations with relative ease, facilitating adoption with new customers, as well as the installation of additional systems with existing customers. We typically dedicate one engineer for several weeks around the time of the installation to educate customers as to how to best use our systems and to identify how our 11 technology can most effectively add value to customer processes. After this point, our customers become largely self-supported, requiring only occasional support from our sales and engineering staff. This enables us to effectively reallocate our engineers and sales force to continue to engage with new potential customers, supporting our efforts to scale our operations rapidly. Deep moat of intellectual property protections We have a strong, multi-layered portfolio protecting our intellectual property (IP) rights, which reinforces our competitive advantage. As of December 31, 2024, we owned 63 issued patents of which 43 are issued U.S. patents, and 20 are issued foreign patents. We also have 51 publicly pending patent applications of which 47 are pending U.S. patent applications and four pending foreign patent applications. Our issued patents will expire at different times in the future, with the earliest expiring in 2035 and the latest expiring in 2047. Our currently pending patent applications will generally remain in effect for 20 years from the date of filing of the initial patent application of each. Our eight trademark types worldwide include six registered U.S. trademarks, 45 registered foreign trademarks, two pending U.S. trademark applications, and six pending foreign trademark applications. We also have one U.S. registered copyright. Our intellectual property is subject to a first lien security interest held by the Holder of our senior secured notes due 2026, as amended (the Secured Notes). Capital efficient business model We have an asset-light business model, which will allow us to scale our operations to meet expected customer demand. Our own manufacturing operations are primarily limited to final assembly, testing and shipment. Further, we believe our units are higher value and lower volume relative to other AM solutions providers, which reduces the burden on our supply chain as we expand. Our final assembly process does not require expensive clean rooms but instead occurs within an assembly facility. We believe that this will enable us to rapidly scale our business model to meet customer demand, without the risks associated with other manufacturing models that require heavy capital expenditures to increase production capacity. Our Product Platforms Since our founding in 2014, we have focused development on our primary solution, marketed as Sapphire. Sapphire is a fully integrated solution including the Flow design software and Assure quality control software. At the end of 2022, we launched our Sapphire XC 1MZ system, and at the end of 2021, we launched our Sapphire XC system, both of which enable production of larger parts at a lower cost. 12 Our software is fully integrated into the design, production and quality control platform with our Sapphire family of systems. We maintain legal title of our software systems for products sold under both our 3D printer sale transactions and recurring payment transactions. Flow Flow software powers the whole family of Sapphire AM printers. Our systems rely on a similar manufacturing process for all of our printer solutions. Flow is a highly advanced and proprietary software platform, which scans part designs for unique geometrical features. It uses advanced computational algorithms to prescribe specific manufacturing recipes and processes specific to the Sapphire production systems, e.g., to ensure that the 3D object is produced with the required specifications. Sapphire, Sapphire 1MZ, Sapphire XC and Sapphire XC 1MZ The Sapphire printer system is our first generation production machine. Sapphire uses L-PBF technology and supports a build module of 315 millimeter diameter by 400 millimeter tall, and volume of up to 31 liters. Sapphire XC is our second generation of printers and started shipping at the end of 2021. The acronym XC stands for extra capacity and as compared to Sapphire, has a larger build module of 600 millimeter diameter by 550 millimeter tall, and volume of up to 155 liters. Sapphire XC is based on the same fundamental design of our original Sapphire 3D printers. The Sapphire XC printer system is designed with the intent that all recipes and parts designed for the original Sapphire printers are fully compatible with the Sapphire XC printer systems, as the new system line is designed to carry over processes and metrologies. The Sapphire 1MZ and Sapphire XC 1MZ printer systems are our newest addition to our Sapphire family of printers line. The Sapphire 1MZ and Sapphire XC 1MZ systems have the same functionality as the Sapphire and Sapphire XC, respectively. However, the 1MZ printers are larger having a 1000 millimeter (one meter) height build module as compared to the 400 millimeter and 550 millimeter height build module for Sapphire and Sapphire XC, respectively. Our machines have the ability to make parts with thousands of composite structures made from various metals including aluminum, titanium, nickel-alloys, nickel super alloys, copper alloys, stainless steel and steel alloys. In principle, any metal that is cold-weldable is able to be used as a base layer in our machines. We currently have recipes to print from 14 different metals (e.g., 13 alloys) and add recipes for additional metals based on customer demand. Our team of materials and metallurgy experts qualify new materials on our Sapphire family of printers based on customer requirements and feedback. Flow Developer allows companies to develop parameters for their alloys. Assure Assure is an advanced quality control software platform that includes process metrologies to ensure repeatable, consistent part quality. The platform works with a myriad of complex sensors, which allow prompt control modulation of the laser systems of the Sapphire printer line, to calibrate production outcomes within prescribed tolerances. Flow Developer Flow Developer is available for users of Flow 7.0, the latest version of our print preparation software that turns traditional design files into print files. Developer grants editor-level access to print parameters, giving companies maximum flexibility and control when working with our additive manufacturing solution. With this access, users can import proven parameters they have developed, optimize default parameters for specific application needs, and develop parameter sets supporting new material development for novel solutions and specific applications. Intelligent Fusion Intelligent Fusion is the underlying manufacturing process that binds and facilitates all aspects of the Velo3D fully integrated solution, which includes our print preparation software (Flow), advanced metal 3D printers (Sapphire line), and quality assurance software (Assure). Intelligent Fusion unifies and manages all of the above, including the information flow, sensor data from approximately 1,000 sensors, and the advanced printing technology for precision control of the entire print. Rapid Production Solutions (RPS) Our Rapid Production Solutions is designed to meet the growing demand for scalable, high-quality production parts. RPS enables customers to build resilient supply chains for production parts across industries, including aerospace, defense, energy, and others. Customers Our customers range from small- and medium-sized enterprises to Fortune 500 companies in the space, aviation, defense, automotive, energy and industrial markets. Our largest customer, Space Exploration Technologies Corp. ("SpaceX"), accounted for 23.0% and 4.0% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Our customers include both OEMs, as well as CMs who provide service and parts on behalf of OEMs. Our 3D printer sales occur under purchase orders that are governed by our terms and conditions of sale. Our terms and conditions with our largest customer are consistent with all other customers and permit the customers to terminate our services at any time (subject to notice and certain other provisions). We only sell to production customers. Our machines are not resalable without consent and software licenses are not transferable to certain geographic markets to protect our IP. Research and Development The high-value metal parts and AM segments are undergoing technological advancements across hardware, software and materials. Specifically, our R&D team is focused on continuing advances in technology that include, but are not limited to: enhancements of the Sapphire family of systems, such as our 1MZ systems; 14 improvement of reliability and productivity of the Sapphire family of systems; expansion of functionality of Flow software; qualifying new materials; additional quality control features in Assure; and addition of recipes for new and for qualified metal alloys. We have historically invested a significant amount of our resources in R&D because we believe that superior technology is a key to maintaining a leading market position. In the year ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, our R&D expenses were approximately $17.1 million and $42.0 million, respectively. Sales and Marketing We sell our AM solutions directly, as well as through a network of multiple distribution partners. Together, these relationships span much of the world, including the United States, the EU, Australia, Japan, South Korea and Southeast Asia. For new customers, our success reflects our strategy of making an initial sale to customers for technology validation before increasing penetration through sales of additional units. Our marketing strategy is oriented around building deep and lasting relationships with leading global manufacturers. We seek to compete by maximizing the value we create for our customers. To that end, our engineers engage with customers to identify the specific parts and processes where our solutions can add the most immediate value. At the time of the installation, our engineers will typically engage with customers for several weeks to educate them on the system, after which point customers are typically able to operate the system without our direct engagement. Our sales team remains engaged with customers after initial validation of our technology with a goal of integrating our technology into other customer processes. Thus far, we believe this strategy has proven successful. In recent years, we have successfully demonstrated the utility of our technology across multiple target markets, including the highest performance application in the space, aviation, semiconductor, defense, automotive, energy and industrial end markets. We believe these successful deployments have seeded the market and will enable increased acquisition of new customers in those segments. We rely on our own sales team, as well as multiple distribution partners, including Taiyo Nippon Sanso (Japan), Avaco (South Korea), and SBO (Austria). These relationships have helped to extend our reach into overseas markets and essentially function as extensions of our sales team. We have entered into partnership agreements with each of our distribution partners, which grant the distribution partner the right to market our products in a specified territory on either an exclusive or nonexclusive basis, depending on the distribution partner; however, all sales contracts for our products are entered into between us and our customers. Certain of these distribution partners also provide maintenance services to customers in their specified territories. Going forward, we plan to expand our direct sales force and will consider establishing additional distribution partnerships as we continue to implement our strategy with new customers. Business Segments We operate in a single reporting segment. Our revenues are primarily derived from the sale of 3D printers. See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Segment Information in the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements for further detail. 15 Manufacturing and Suppliers We design, assemble, test and ship all of our products and rely on outside manufacturers for component and select subsystems. Production of our systems requires approximately 8 to 15 weeks depending on the Sapphire product within our family of systems. We employ several third-party vendors to supply our core hardware subsystems and components. Following receipt of these subsystems and components, we assemble and calibrate the system. We then conduct a series of process tests culminating in a final factory acceptance test. We have internal teams focused on technology development, engineering and manufacturing. The teams coordinate the design, construction, assembly, testing and shipment of our products. We currently rely on numerous external suppliers, which we believe have ample capacity to increase supply of our critical components. For the majority of these suppliers, we believe we can readily source components from competing suppliers on short notice. For several critical subsystems, we have developed multiple suppliers to ensure surety of supply. We manage our inventory based on sales and production forecasts and anticipated lead times for sourcing components and assembly. Intellectual Property Our leadership in the high-value metal parts AM segment depends largely on our differentiated technology, which we seek to protect through a multi-layered IP approach. Our IP protection enables us to prevent organizations and individuals from selling or using our systems, apparatuses, devices, and software, practicing our methods, or trading in our produced parts (e.g., 3D objects), as these are all protected by various forms of IP protection including by our patents and trademarks granted in various jurisdictions, by our copyrights, and by our trade secrets. We attempt to protect our IP rights, in various jurisdictions (e.g., United States and abroad), through a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets, nondisclosure and invention assignment agreements with our consultants and employees, and nondisclosure agreements with our contractors, vendors and other business partners. We pursue patent protection when we believe it is possible and consistent with our overall strategy for safeguarding IP. Our patent profile includes a broad portfolio across our systems, apparatuses, devices, methods (e.g., of production), software, and composition of matter (e.g., 3D objects). Metal parts produced using our system technology have a signature that is readily recognizable and traceable. As of December 31, 2024 we owned 63 issued patents of which 43 are issued U.S. patents, and 20 are issued foreign patents. We also have 51 publicly pending patent applications of which 47 are pending U.S. patent applications, four are pending foreign patent applications. Our issued patents will expire at different times in the future, with the earliest expiring in 2035 and the latest expiring in 2047. Our currently pending patent applications will generally remain in effect for 20 years from the date of filing of the initial patent application of each. Our trademarks include six registered U.S. trademarks, 45 registered foreign trademarks, two pending U.S. trademark applications, and six pending foreign trademark applications. We also have one U.S. registered copyright. Our intellectual property is subject to a first lien security interest held by the Holder of the Secured Notes. Human Capital Resources We have a strong team of employees who contribute to our success. As of December 31, 2024 and 2023, we had 105 and 237 full-time employees, respectively, the majority of them based at our headquarters and manufacturing facility in Fremont, California. We rely on consultants and outside contractors in roles and responsibilities that include engineering, operations and finance. To date, we have not experienced any work stoppages and consider our relationship with our employees to be in good standing. None of our employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement or are represented by a labor union. 16 Our Board of Directors oversees matters relating to managing our human capital resources. Our human capital resources objectives include identifying, recruiting, and hiring qualified talent. We then focus on training, developing, and retaining talent, while ensuring fair compensation and incentives for global employees. We focus heavily on ensuring compliance and workplace safety. We review our compensation and benefit policies and programs regularly through industry benchmarks. We believe we offer competitive benefits and total compensation packages, of which the principal purposes are to attract, retain and motivate our employees. Competition We compete with other suppliers of 3D printers, materials and software, as well as with suppliers of traditional metal manufacturing solutions. We compete with these suppliers, as well as channel partners, for customers, and for certain of our products. We also compete with businesses and service bureaus that use such equipment to produce models, prototypes, molds and end-user parts. Development of new technologies or techniques not encompassed by the patents that we own may result in additional future competition. Our competitors operate both globally and regionally, and many of them have well-recognized brands and product lines. Additionally, certain of our competitors are well established and may have greater financial resources than us. We believe principal competitive factors include technology capabilities, materials, process and application know-how, total cost of operation of solution, product reliability and the ability to provide a full range of products and services to meet customer needs. We believe that our future success depends on our ability to provide high-quality solutions, introduce new products and services to meet evolving customer needs, market opportunities, and extend our technologies to new applications. Accordingly, our ongoing R&D programs are intended to enable us to continue technology advancement and develop innovative new solutions for the marketplace. Government Regulations We are subject to various laws, regulations and permitting requirements of U.S. federal, state and local and foreign authorities. These include: regulations promulgated by environmental and health agencies, as described below under - Environmental Matters; the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration; the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and the anti-corruption laws of other countries; laws pertaining to the hiring, treatment, safety and discharge of employees; and import and trade restrictions and export control regulations, including the U.S. International Traffic in Arms Regulations and the U.S. Export Administration Regulations. We believe that we are in material compliance with all such laws, regulations and permitting requirements. Environmental Matters We are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and permitting requirements, including those governing the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into ground, air or water; noise emissions; the generation, storage, use, management and disposal of hazardous and other waste; the import, export and registration of chemicals; the cleanup of contaminated sites; and the health and safety of our employees. Based on information currently available to us, we do not expect environmental costs and contingencies to have a material adverse effect on our operations. The operation of our facility, however, entails risks in these areas. Significant expenditures could be required in the future to comply with environmental or health and safety laws, regulations or other requirements. Certain of these compliance requirements are imposed by our customers, who at times require us to be registered with U.S. health or safety regulatory agencies, whether on the federal or state level. 17 Under environmental laws and regulations, we are required to obtain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain operations. In the European marketplace, among others, electrical and electronic equipment is required to comply with the Directive on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment of the EU, which aims to prevent waste by encouraging reuse and recycling, and the EU Directive on Restriction of Use of Certain Hazardous Substances, which restricts the use of various hazardous substances in electrical and electronic products. Our products and certain components of such products put on the market in the EU (whether or not manufactured in the EU) are subject to these directives. Additionally, we are required to comply with certain laws, regulations and directives governing chemicals, including the U.S. Toxic Substances Control Act, Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH), the Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive (RoHS) and Classification, Labelling and Packaging Regulation (CLP) in the EU. These and similar laws and regulations require, among others, the registration, evaluation, authorization and labeling of certain chemicals that we use and ship. Corporate Information We were incorporated on September 11, 2020 as a special purpose acquisition company and a Cayman Islands exempted company under the name JAWS Spitfire Acquisition Corporation. On December 7, 2020, JAWS Spitfire completed its initial public offering. On September 29, 2021, JAWS Spitfire consummated the Merger with Legacy Velo3D pursuant to the Business Combination Agreement. In connection with the Merger, JAWS Spitfires jurisdiction of incorporation was changed from the Cayman Islands to the State of Delaware, and JAWS Spitfire changed its name to Velo3D, Inc. Our address is 2710 Lakeview Court, Fremont, CA 94538. Our telephone number is (408) 610-3915. Our website address is https://www.velo3d.com. Information contained on our website or connected thereto does not constitute part of, and is not incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report. Available Information We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). Our website is www.velo3d.com and our Investor Relations webpage is ir.velo3d.com. The SEC maintains a website, www.sec.gov, that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information that issuers file electronically with the SEC. Our electronic SEC filings are available to the public at the SECs website. We make available free of charge, on or through our Investor Relations webpage, our proxy statements on Schedule 14A, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC We use our investor relations website, our X handle (www.X.com/VELO3DMetal), LinkedIn profile (www.linkedin.com/company/velo3d) and YouTube (@Velo3d) as a means of disseminating or providing notification of, among other things, news or announcements regarding our business or financial performance, investor events, press releases, and earnings releases and as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. The content of our websites and information that we may post on or provide to online and social media channels, including those mentioned above, and information that can be accessed through our websites or these online and social media channels are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites or these online and social media channels are intended to be inactive textual references only. 18 Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our securities involves risks. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report, including the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report, before deciding whether to purchase any of our securities. Our business, results of operations, financial condition, and prospects could also be harmed by risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that we currently believe are not material. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, results of operations, financial condition, and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Unless otherwise indicated, references in these risk factors to our business being harmed will include harm to our business, reputation, brand, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. In such event, the market price of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Financial Position and Need for Additional Capital We are an early-stage company with a history of operating losses and may not maintain profitability in the future. We experienced loss from operations of $82.3 million and $133.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. We anticipate incurring operating losses and negative cash flow in the near-term as we continue to invest significantly in our business, in particular across our sales and marketing programs. These investments may not result in increased revenue or growth in our business. Servicing our indebtedness requires a significant amount of cash and, as a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. These obligations and expenditures may make it harder for us to achieve and maintain future profitability. Revenue growth and growth in our customer base may not be sustainable, and we may not achieve sufficient revenue to achieve or maintain profitability. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2024, we experienced less annual revenue growth than expected due to the impact of delayed shipments and customer order delays. While we have generated revenue in the past, it is difficult for us to predict our future operating results. We may incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including due to the other risks described in this Annual Report, and we may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications and delays and other unknown events. As a result, our losses may be larger than anticipated, we may incur significant losses for the foreseeable future, and we may not achieve profitability when expected, or at all, and even if we do, we may not be able to maintain or increase profitability. Furthermore, if our future growth and operating performance fail to meet investor or analyst expectations, or if we have future negative cash flow or losses resulting from our investment in acquiring customers or expanding our operations, this could make it difficult for them to evaluate our current business and our future prospects and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. As described in Note 1 Description of Business and Basis of PresentationGoing Concern, Financial Condition and Liquidity and Capital Resources in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report, we believe there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern for the twelve-month period following the filing date of this Annual Report. Our conclusion that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern may be viewed unfavorably by current and prospective investors, as well as by analysts and creditors. As a result, this conclusion may make it more difficult for us to raise the additional financing necessary to continue to operate our business and satisfy our obligations. In addition, this conclusion may make it more difficult for us to sell our products and meet our sales forecasts or retain employees, which may further impede our ability to raise additional financing. If we become unable to continue as a going concern, we may find it necessary to file a petition for reorganization under Title 11 of the U.S. Code in order to provide us additional time to identify an appropriate solution to our financial situation and implement a plan of reorganization aimed at improving our capital structure. 19 Our limited operating history and rapid growth makes evaluating our current business and future prospects difficult and may increase the investment risk. Much of our growth has occurred in recent periods. Our limited operating history may make it difficult to evaluate our current business and our future prospects, as we continue to grow our business. Our ability to forecast our future operating results is subject to a number of uncertainties, including our ability to plan for and model future growth. We have encountered, and will continue to encounter, risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly evolving industries as we continue to grow our business. If our assumptions regarding these uncertainties, which we use to plan our business, are incorrect or change in reaction to changes in our markets, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our operating and financial results could differ materially from our expectations, our business could suffer, and the trading price of our securities may decline. It is difficult to predict our future revenues and appropriately budget for our expenses, and we have limited insight into trends that may emerge and affect our business. If actual results differ from our estimates or we adjust our estimates in future periods, our operating results and financial position could be materially affected. We expect to rely on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our near-term revenue. We currently have purchase orders with a limited number of customers, from which we expect to generate most of our revenues in the near future. For the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, sales to the top three customers accounted for 47.0% and 24.5% of our revenue, respectively. Of the top three customers for the year ended December 31, 2024, all three customers were different from the top three customers for the comparable period in 2023. We continue to diversify our customer base. Revenue trends from our largest customer, SpaceX, have historically been driven by the timing of its major orders for 3D Printers and the timing of the shipments under those orders. We expect our largest customer to remain an important relationship going forward. However, the largest customer contribution as a percentage of our total revenue will depend on the growth of our customer base. As of December 31, 2024, over 50% of our customers have multiple Sapphire family of systems products. Our 3D printer sales occur under purchase orders that are governed by our terms and conditions of sale. Our terms and conditions with SpaceX are consistent with all other customers and permit the customer to terminate our services at any time (subject to notice and certain other provisions). Accordingly, the sudden loss of SpaceX or one or more of our other significant customers, the renegotiation of a significant customer contract, a substantial reduction in their orders, their failure to exercise customer options, their unwillingness to extend contractual deadlines if we are unable to meet production requirements, their inability to perform under their contracts or a significant deterioration in their financial condition could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to perform under the terms of these agreements, the customers could seek to terminate these agreements and/or pursue damages against us, including liquidated damages in certain instances, which could harm our business. Because we rely on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues, we depend on the creditworthiness of these customers. If the financial condition of our customers declines due to factors outside our control (e.g., reputational harm or otherwise), our credit risk could increase. Should one or more of our significant customers declare bankruptcy, be declared insolvent or otherwise be restricted by state or federal laws or regulation from continuing in some or all of their operations, this could adversely affect our ongoing revenues, the collectability of our accounts receivable and our net income. Further, some of our customers are early-stage, startup companies that are privately funded, have limited resources, and do not have a history of creditworthiness that we can audit to determine reliability. These customers may be more susceptible to negative impacts from economic downturns, recession, inflation, supply chain shortages or the outbreak of epidemic diseases than larger, more established businesses, and if they fail to raise enough capital, they may have to shut down operations. 20 We expect to require additional capital to fund our operations in the near-term, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We expect that we will need to engage in additional financings to fund our operations and satisfy our obligations in the near-term as well as to respond to business challenges and opportunities, including the need to repay our senior secured notes due 2026, as amended (the "Secured Notes"), provide working capital, develop new features or enhance our products, expand our manufacturing capacity, improve our operating infrastructure or acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, subject to our compliance with the covenants in the Secured Notes, we expect we will need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds, including seeking additional capital from public or private offerings of our equity or debt securities, electing to repay, restructure or refinance our existing indebtedness, or electing to borrow additional amounts under new credit lines or from other sources. We may also seek to raise additional capital, including from offerings of our equity or debt securities on an opportunistic basis when we believe there are suitable opportunities. Our recent and projected financial results, and the related conditions that raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, and general concerns among potential investors and creditors about our financial well-being may make taking such actions on commercially reasonable terms especially difficult. If we raise additional funds through future issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing that we may secure in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. Our ability to raise additional capital when needed may be adversely affected by external factors beyond our control, including changes in the political climate, geopolitical actions, changes in market interest rates or foreign exchange rates, market volatility in the trading prices for our common stock and other technology companies, a recession, depression, high inflation or other sustained adverse market event, and the outbreak of epidemic disease. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us in the near term, we will not be able to continue operations. If we are otherwise unable to obtain additional financing when we require it, our ability to respond to business challenges and opportunities could be significantly impaired, and our business may be adversely affected. We have historically invested in research and development efforts that further enhance our products. Such investments may affect our operating results and liquidity, and, if the return on these investments is lower or develops more slowly than we expect, our revenue and operating results may suffer. We have historically invested in research and development efforts that further enhance our products. These investments involve significant time, risks and uncertainties, including the risk that the expenses associated with these investments may affect our margins, operating results and liquidity and that such investments may not generate sufficient revenues to offset liabilities assumed and expenses associated with these new investments. The AM industry changes rapidly as a result of technological and product developments, which may render our solutions less effective. If we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments, if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our business, operating results and prospects may be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have in the past and may in the future experience significant delays in the design, production, launch, manufacture, shipment and installation of our additive manufacturing solutions, and we may be unable to successfully commercialize products on our planned timelines. There are significant technological and logistical challenges associated with producing, marketing, selling and delivering additive manufacturing systems such as ours that make high-value component parts for customers, and we may not be able to resolve all of the difficulties that arise in a timely or cost-effective manner, or at all. While we believe that we understand the engineering and process characteristics necessary to successfully design and produce additive manufacturing systems to make high-value metal parts for our 21 customers, our assumptions may prove to be incorrect, and we may be unable to consistently produce additive manufacturing products in an economical manner in commercial quantities. Certain additive manufacturing solutions are still under development. We have experienced, and may experience in the future, delays in the design, testing, manufacture and commercial release of new products, and any delay in the launch of our products could materially damage our brand, business, growth prospects, financial condition and operating results. Even if we successfully complete the design, testing and manufacture for one or all of our products under development, we may fail to develop a commercially successful product on the timeline we expect for a number of reasons, including: misalignment between the products and customer needs; lack of innovation of the product; failure of the product to perform in accordance with the customers industry standards; ineffective distribution and marketing; delay in obtaining any required regulatory approvals; unexpected production costs; or release of competitive products. We have also experienced, and may experience in the future, delay in the manufacture, shipment and installation of products we have launched. Our success in the market for the products we develop will depend largely on our ability to prove our products capabilities in a timely manner. Upon demonstration, our customers may not believe that our products and/or technology have the capabilities they were designed to have or that we believe they have. Furthermore, even if we do successfully demonstrate our products capabilities, potential customers may be more comfortable doing business with another larger and more established company or may take longer than expected to make the decision to order our products. Significant revenue from new product investments may not be achieved for a number of years, if at all. If the timing of our launch of new products and/or of our customers acceptance of such products is different than our assumptions, our revenue and results of operations may be adversely affected. In particular, we may fail to develop a commercially successful offering if we are unable to meet customer needs or industry standards, if we fail to meet customer price expectations or if our marketing and distribution strategy proves ineffective. If we are unable to establish such an offering, sales of our additive manufacturing solutions and our overall operating results could suffer. We may acquire or make investments in other businesses, patents, technologies, products or services. Our failure to do so successfully could disrupt our business and have an adverse impact on our financial condition. We may enter into agreements to acquire or invest in other companies. To the extent we seek to grow our business through acquisitions, we may not be able to successfully identify attractive acquisition opportunities or consummate any such acquisitions if we cannot reach an agreement on commercially favorable terms, if we lack sufficient resources to finance the transaction on our own and cannot obtain financing at a reasonable cost or if regulatory authorities prevent such transaction from being consummated. In addition, competition for acquisitions in the markets in which we operate during recent years has increased, and may continue to increase, which may result in an increase in the costs of acquisitions or cause us to refrain from making certain acquisitions. We may not be able to complete future acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. 22 If we do complete future acquisitions, we cannot assure that they will ultimately strengthen our competitive position or that they will be viewed positively by customers, financial markets or investors. Furthermore, future acquisitions could pose numerous additional risks to our operations, including: diversion of managements attention from their day-to-day responsibilities; unanticipated costs or liabilities associated with the acquisition; increases in our expenses; problems integrating the purchased business, products or technologies; challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other anticipated benefits; inability to maintain relationships with key customers, suppliers, vendors and other third parties on which the purchased business relies; the difficulty of incorporating acquired technology and rights into our platform and of maintaining quality and security standards consistent with our brand; difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures and policies during the transition and integration; challenges in integrating the new workforce and the potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired business; and use of substantial portions of our available cash or the incurrence of debt to consummate the acquisition. If we proceed with a particular acquisition, we may have to use cash, issue new equity securities with dilutive effects on existing stockholders, incur indebtedness, assume contingent liabilities or amortize assets or expenses in a manner that might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions will also require us to record certain acquisition-related costs and other items as current period expenses, which would have the effect of reducing our reported earnings in the period in which an acquisition is consummated. In addition, we could also face unknown liabilities or write-offs due to our acquisitions, which could result in a significant charge to our earnings in the period in which they occur. We will also be required to record goodwill or other long-lived asset impairment charges (if any) in the periods in which they occur, which could result in a significant charge to our earnings in any such period. Achieving the expected returns and synergies from future acquisitions will depend, in part, upon our ability to integrate the products and services, technology, administrative functions and personnel of these businesses into our product lines in an efficient and effective manner. We cannot assure that we will be able to do so, that our acquired businesses will perform at levels and on the timelines anticipated by our management or that we will be able to obtain these synergies. In addition, acquired technologies and IP may be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by our own or our competitors technological advances. Management resources may also be diverted from operating our existing businesses to certain acquisition integration challenges. If we are unable to successfully integrate acquired businesses, our anticipated revenues and profits may be lower. Our profit margins may also be lower, or diluted, following the acquisition of companies whose profit margins are less than those of our existing businesses. We have limited experience in making investments in other entities, and any such investments may not result in strategic benefits for our business or could expose us to other risks. From time to time, we may consider and may pursue strategic investments. These transactions could include, among other things, investments in, partnerships or joint ventures with other AM technology related companies, among other types of entities. These types 23 of investments involve significant challenges and risks, including that the investment may not advance our business strategy, that we may not realize a satisfactory return on our investment, that we may acquire unknown liabilities, or that managements attention may be diverted from our core business. These events could harm our operating results or financial condition. Any investments in other entities may also subject us to the operating and financial risks of such entities, and we will rely on the internal controls and financial reporting controls of such entities. We have made in the past, and may make in the future, minority investments in entities in which we do not have sole control, which present risks in addition to those that apply to other investments or acquisitions. We may not have the ability to control the policies, management or affairs of these entities, and generally we would not have that ability in any minority investment in an entity. The interests of persons who control the entities in which we may invest may differ from our interests, and they may cause such entities to take actions that are not in our best interest, and we may become involved in disputes with such persons. Our inability to control entities in which we make minority investments could negatively affect our ability to realize the strategic benefits of those investments. We cannot ensure that we will realize any strategic benefits from these investments in the near-term or at all. To the extent that the strategic benefits of any investment are not timely realized, or the investment otherwise underperforms, we may wish to dispose of the investment. Because our interests in entities will be highly illiquid and not traded in any public market, we may not be able to timely dispose of these interests or may have to sell at less than our carrying value. Further, should the value of these investments become impaired, we may be required to reduce the carrying value of these investments. Our inability to dispose of our interest in such an entity, or a reduction in the carrying value of such an entity on our books, would negatively affect our operating results. Changes in our transaction models and product mix may impact our gross margins and financial performance. Our financial performance may be affected by the mix of transaction models under which we sell during a given period. Different transaction models have different margins in the period in which the transaction occurs and in subsequent periods. Therefore our gross margins may fluctuate based on the mix of sale, sale and utilization fee (variable consideration) and operating lease transactions in a given period. If our product mix shifts too far into lower gross margin transactions in a given period and we are not able to sufficiently reduce the engineering, production and other costs associated with those transactions or substantially increase the sales of our higher gross margin transactions, our profitability could be reduced. Additionally, the introduction of new products or services may further heighten quarterly fluctuations in gross profit and gross profit margins due to manufacturing ramp-up and start-up costs as well as new product introduction pricing strategies. We may experience significant quarterly fluctuations in gross profit margins or operating income or loss due to the impact of the mix of products, channels or geographic areas in which we sell our products from period to period. Our business model is predicated, in part, on building a customer base that will generate a recurring stream of revenues through the use of our additive manufacturing system and service contracts. If that recurring stream of revenues does not develop as expected, or if our business model changes as the industry evolves, our operating results may be adversely affected. Our business model is dependent, in part, on our ability to maintain and increase sales of our additive manufacturing products and service contracts as they generate recurring revenues. Existing and future customers of our systems may not purchase our products or related service contracts at the same rate at which customers currently purchase those products and services. If demand for additive manufacturing products does not grow as expected, or if market adoption of additive manufacturing technology does not continue to develop, or develops more slowly than expected, our revenues may stagnate or decline, and our business may be adversely affected. The industrial manufacturing market, which today is dominated by conventional manufacturing processes that do not involve 3D printing technology, is undergoing a shift towards additive manufacturing. We may not be able to develop effective strategies to raise 24 awareness among potential customers of the benefits of additive manufacturing technologies or our products may not address the specific needs or provide the level of functionality required by potential customers to encourage the continuation of this shift towards additive manufacturing. If additive manufacturing technology does not continue to gain broader market acceptance as an alternative to conventional manufacturing processes, particularly with regard to high value parts, or if the marketplace adopts additive manufacturing technologies that differ from our technologies, we may not be able to increase or sustain the level of sales of our products, and our operating results would be adversely affected as a result. If we fail to meet our customers price expectations, demand for our products and product lines could be negatively impacted and our business and results of operations could suffer. Demand for our product lines is sensitive to price. We believe our competitive pricing has been an important factor in our results to date. Therefore, changes in our pricing strategies can have a significant impact on our business and ability to generate revenue. Many factors, including our new product launches, our production and personnel costs and our competitors pricing and marketing strategies, can significantly impact our pricing strategies. If we fail to meet our customers price expectations in any given period, demand for our products and product lines could be negatively impacted and our business and results of operations could suffer. We use, and plan to continue using, different pricing models for different products. For example, we lease our 3D printers to certain customers and we also use a sale and utilization fee (variable consideration) model with certain other customers. Our sale and utilization fee model is still relatively new to some of our customers and may not be attractive to them, especially in regions where the model is less common. If customers resist this or any other new pricing models we introduce, our revenue may be adversely affected, and we may need to restructure the way in which we charge customers for our products. Declines in the prices of our products and services, or in our volume of sales, together with our relatively inflexible cost structure, may adversely affect our financial results. Our business is subject to price competition. Such price competition may adversely affect our results of operation, especially during periods of decreased demand. Decreased demand also adversely impacts the volume of our additive manufacturing systems sales. If our business is not able to offset price reductions resulting from these pressures, or decreased volume of sales due to contractions in the market, by improved operating efficiencies and reduced expenditures, then our operating results will be adversely affected. Certain of our operating costs are fixed and cannot readily be reduced, which diminishes the positive impact of our restructuring programs on our operating results. To the extent the demand for our products slows, or the additive manufacturing market contracts, we may be faced with excess manufacturing capacity and related costs that cannot readily be reduced, which will adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Defects in our additive manufacturing system or in enhancements to our existing additive manufacturing systems that give rise to part failures for our customers, resulting in product liability or warranty or other claims that could result in material expenses, diversion of management time and attention and damage to our reputation. Our additive manufacturing solutions are complex and may contain undetected defects or errors when first introduced or as enhancements are released that, despite testing, are not discovered until after an additive manufacturing system has been used. This could result in delayed market acceptance of those additive manufacturing systems or claims from customers or others, which may result in litigation, increased end user warranty, support and repair or replacement costs, damage to our reputation and business, or significant costs and diversion of support and engineering personnel to correct the defect or error. We may from time to time become subject to warranty or product liability claims related to product quality issues that could lead us to incur significant expenses. We attempt to include provisions in our agreements and purchase orders with customers that are designed to limit our exposure to potential liability for damages arising from defects or errors in our products. However, it is possible that these limitations may not be effective as a result of unfavorable judicial decisions or laws enacted in the future. 25 The sale and support of our products entails the risk of product liability claims. Any product liability claim brought against us, regardless of our merit, could result in material expense, diversion of management time and attention, damage to our business and reputation and brand, and cause us to fail to retain existing customers or to fail to attract new customers. The additive manufacturing industry in which we operate is characterized by rapid technological change, which requires us to continue to develop new products and innovations to meet constantly evolving customer demands and which could adversely affect market adoption of our products. Our revenues are derived from the sale of additive manufacturing systems, parts and services. We have encountered and will continue to encounter challenges experienced by growing companies in a market subject to rapid innovation and technological change. While we intend to invest substantial resources to remain on the forefront of technological development, continuing advances in additive manufacturing technology, changes in customer requirements and preferences and the emergence of new standards, regulations and certifications could adversely affect adoption of our products either generally or for particular applications. Our ability to compete in the additive manufacturing market depends, in large part, on our success in developing and introducing new additive manufacturing systems and technology, in improving our existing products and technology and qualifying new materials which our systems can support. We believe that we must continuously enhance and expand the functionality and features of our products and technologies in order to remain competitive. However, we may not be able to: develop cost effective new products and technologies that address the increasingly complex needs of prospective customers; enhance our existing products and technologies; respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and certifications on a cost-effective and timely basis; adequately protect our IP as we develop new products and technologies; identify the appropriate technology or product to which to devote our resources; or ensure the availability of cash resources to fund R&D. Even if we successfully introduce new additive manufacturing products and technologies and enhance our existing products and technologies, it is possible that these will eventually supplant our existing products or that our competitors will develop new products and technologies that will replace our own. As a result, any of our products may be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by our or our competitors technological advances, leading to a loss in market share, decline in revenue and adverse effects to our business and prospects. The additive manufacturing industry is competitive. We expect to face increasing competition in many aspects of our business, which could cause our operating results to suffer. The additive manufacturing industry in which we operate is fragmented and competitive. We compete for customers with a wide variety of producers of additive manufacturing and/or 3D printing equipment that creates 3D objects and end-use parts, as well as with providers of materials and services for this equipment. Some of our existing and potential competitors are researching, designing, developing and marketing other types of products and services that may render our existing or future products obsolete, uneconomical or less competitive. Existing and potential competitors may also have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and sales, manufacturing, distribution and other resources than we do, including name recognition, as well as experience and expertise in IP rights and operating within certain international markets, any of which may enable them to compete effectively against us. For example, a number of companies that have substantial resources have announced that they are beginning production of 3D printing systems, which will further enhance the competition we face. We may lose market share to, or fail to gain market share from, producers of products that can be substituted for our products, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 26 Future competition may arise from the development of allied or related techniques for equipment, materials and services that are not encompassed by our patents, from the issuance of patents to other companies that may inhibit our ability to develop certain products and from improvements to existing technologies. We intend to continue to follow a strategy of continuing product development and distribution network expansion to enhance our competitive position to the extent practicable. However, we cannot assure that we will be able to maintain our current position or continue to compete successfully against current and future sources of competition. If we do not keep pace with technological change and introduce new products and technologies, demand for our products may decline, and our operating results may suffer. Our existing and planned global operations subject us to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our business is subject to risks associated with selling machines and other products in non-United States locations. Our products and services, and product outputs from CMs who use our 3D printer systems, are distributed in more than 25 countries around the world. Accordingly, we face significant operational risks from doing business internationally. For current and potential international customers whose contracts are denominated in U.S. dollars, the relative change in local currency values creates relative fluctuations in our product pricing. These changes in international end-user costs may result in lost orders and reduce the competitiveness of our products in certain foreign markets. As we realize our strategy to expand internationally, our exposure to currency risks may increase. Other risks and uncertainties we face from our global operations include: limited protection for the enforcement of contract and IP rights in certain countries where we may sell our products or work with suppliers or other third parties; potentially longer sales and payment cycles and potentially greater difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; costs and difficulties of customizing products for foreign countries; challenges in providing solutions across a significant distance, in different languages and among different cultures; laws and business practices favoring local competition; being subject to a wide variety of complex foreign laws, treaties and regulations and adjusting to any unexpected changes in such laws, treaties and regulations; compliance with U.S. laws affecting activities of U.S. companies abroad, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), and compliance with anti-corruption laws in other countries, such as the UK Bribery Act (Bribery Act); tariffs, trade barriers and other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell or develop our products in certain foreign markets; operating in countries with a higher incidence of corruption and fraudulent business practices; changes in regulatory requirements, including export controls, tariffs and embargoes, other trade restrictions, competition, corporate practices and data privacy concerns; potential adverse tax consequences arising from global operations; rapid changes in government, economic and political policies and conditions; and 27 political or civil unrest or instability, terrorism or epidemics and other similar outbreaks or events. In addition, additive manufacturing has been identified by the U.S. government as an emerging technology and is currently being further evaluated for national security impacts. We expect additional regulatory changes to be implemented that will result in increased and/or new export controls related to 3D printing technologies, components, and related materials and software. These changes, if implemented, may result in our being required to obtain additional approvals and/or licenses to sell 3D printers in the global market. Our failure to effectively manage the risks and uncertainties associated with our global operations could limit the future growth of our business and adversely affect our business and operating results. There is uncertainty regarding U.S. tariffs and support for existing treaty and trade relationships, and implementation of new legislative or regulatory policies by the U.S. government could impose additional costs on the Company, result in delayed timelines, or otherwise negatively impact the Company, which could have a material adverse impact on the Companys business. In early February 2025, the United States announced a 25% broad-based tariff on goods exported out of Canada into the United States, other than energy products, which would be subject to a 10% tariff. In response, the Canadian government announced that it would impose a 25% tariff on $155 billion of goods imported from the U.S. The United States also announced a 25% tariff on goods imported from Mexico and a 10% tariff on goods imported from China. Representatives of the U.S. government have also publicly stated that they are considering imposing tariffs on goods imported from other countries. The tariffs were enacted on March 4, 2025, however, subsequently paused until April 2, 2025 pending further negotiations. The situation remains fluid, and the duration and outcome of these tariff actions are uncertain. As a result, we are unable to predict the ultimate result and duration of any tariff actions by the U.S. government, or countermeasures that may be taken by other nations. It remains unclear what additional actions, if any, will be taken by the U.S. or other governments with respect to international trade agreements, the imposition of tariffs on goods imported into the U.S., tax policy related to international commerce, increased export control, sanctions and investment restrictions, import or use of foreign communications equipment, or other trade matters. Although the ultimate scope and timing of any such tariffs is indeterminable, if implemented, they could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, there is a risk that the tariffs imposed by the United States on other countries will trigger a broader global trade war which could have a material adverse effect on the U.S. and global economies. We are dependent on management and key personnel, and our business would suffer if we fail to retain our key personnel and attract additional highly skilled employees. Our success depends on the specialized skills of our management team and key operating personnel. This may present particular challenges as we operate in a highly specialized industry sector, which may make replacement of our management team and key operating personnel difficult. A loss of our managers or key employees, or their failure to satisfactorily perform their responsibilities, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our success has been dependent, and will continue to depend, on our ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly qualified personnel for all areas of our organization, particularly R&D, recycling technology, operations and sales. Trained and experienced personnel are in high demand and may be in short supply. Many of the companies that we compete with for experienced employees have greater resources than us and may be able to offer more attractive terms of employment. In addition, we invest significant time and expense in training employees, which increases their value to competitors that may seek to recruit them. We may not be able to attract, develop and maintain the skilled workforce necessary to operate our business, and labor expenses may increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of qualified personnel, which will negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Each member of senior management as well as our key employees may terminate employment without notice and without cause or good reason. The members of our senior management are not subject to non-competition agreements. Accordingly, the adverse effect resulting from the loss of certain members of senior management could be compounded by our inability to prevent them from competing with us. 28 If we fail to grow our business as anticipated, our net sales, gross margin and operating margin will be adversely affected. If we grow as anticipated but fail to manage our growth and expand our operations accordingly, our business may be harmed and our results of operation may suffer. Throughout our history, we had focused our business on generating rapid growth through the increase in system sales across its customer base, and we are attempting to continue to grow our business substantially. To this end, we have made, and expect to continue to make investments in our business, including investments in our infrastructure, technology, marketing and sales efforts. If our business does not generate the level of revenue required to support our investment, our net sales and profitability will be adversely affected. We may not manage our growth effectively. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2024, we experienced less annual revenue growth than expected due to the impact of delayed shipments and customer order delays, resulting in an overall decrease in system sales and backlog in the fourth quarter of 2024.As a result, we determined that our focus on revenue growth had come at the expense of our cash flow and profitability and our commitment to the highest level of customer service and, in October 2023, we made a strategic decision to realign our operations to pivot from emphasizing revenue growth to optimizing our free cash flow, maximizing customer success, reducing expenditures, and improving our operational efficiency. We are undertaking expense reduction and cash savings initiatives as part of a company-wide restructuring and strategic realignment plan to help conserve working capital. Our ability to effectively manage our anticipated growth and expansion of our operations will also require us to enhance our operational, financial and management controls and infrastructure, human resources policies and reporting systems. This expansion will place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. To manage the growth of our operations and personnel, we must establish appropriate and scalable operational and financial systems, procedures and controls and establish and maintain a qualified finance, administrative and operations staff. We may be unable to hire, train, retain and manage the necessary personnel or to identify, manage and exploit potential strategic relationships and market opportunities, which will negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may be unable to realize the level of the anticipated benefits that we expect from restructuring our operations, which may adversely impact our business and results of operations. In August and October 2024, we announced a reduction in force to streamline our business operations, reduce costs and create further operating efficiencies, which combined impacted approximately 45% of our workforce. In addition, we have closed one facility and continue the process of closing down others. In connection with these actions, we have incurred and may continue to incur restructuring costs in the near term, including cash expenditures related to severance payments and other benefits. These actions may result in unintended consequences, including employee attrition beyond our intended reduction in force, damage to our corporate culture and decreased employee morale among our remaining employees, diversion of management attention, adverse effects to our reputation as an employer, loss of continuity, institutional knowledge and expertise, and potential failure or delays to meet operational and growth targets. Further, our business may ultimately not be more efficient or effective and we may be unable to achieve anticipated operating enhancements or cost reductions, which would adversely affect our business, competitive position, operating results and financial condition. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and we may identify additional material weaknesses in the future or otherwise fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, which may result in material misstatements of our consolidated financial statements or cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations or cause our access to the capital markets to be impaired and have a material adverse effect on our business. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The material weaknesses are as follows: 29 We did not design and maintain an effective control environment commensurate with our financial reporting requirements. Specifically, we did not maintain a sufficient complement of personnel with an appropriate degree of internal controls and accounting knowledge, experience, and training commensurate with our accounting and financial reporting requirements. Additionally, the lack of a sufficient complement of personnel resulted in an inability to consistently establish appropriate authorities and responsibilities in pursuit of our financial reporting objectives, as demonstrated by, among other things, insufficient segregation of duties in our finance and accounting functions. This material weakness contributed to the following additional material weaknesses. We did not design and maintain effective controls over the segregation of duties related to journal entries and account reconciliations. Specifically, certain personnel have the ability to both (i) create and post journal entries within our general ledger system and (ii) prepare and review account reconciliations. We did not design and maintain effective controls over the accounting and disclosure for debt and equity instruments. Specifically, we did not design and maintain effective controls over the accounting for the issuance and extinguishment of convertible note arrangements, warrants and common stock. We did not design and maintain effective controls over the accounting for inventory and related accounts. Specifically, we did not design and maintain effective controls over verifying the existence of inventory, the accuracy of purchases, manufacturing costs, and write-offs and the financial statement presentation of inventory and related accounts. We did not design and maintain effective controls over the accounting for contract assets and liabilities. Specifically, we did not design and maintain effective controls over the accuracy and the financial statement presentation of contract assets and liabilities, including variable consideration. We did not design and maintain effective controls over financial statement preparation, presentation and disclosure commensurate with our financial reporting requirements. Specifically, we did not design and maintain effective controls over the appropriate classification and presentation of accounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. These material weaknesses resulted in adjustments to accounts receivable, inventory, other current assets, current and non-current contract liabilities, accrued expenses and other current liabilities which were recorded prior to the issuance of the consolidated financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2020 and 2021 and as of and for the interim periods ended September 30, 2021 and December 31, 2021. These material weaknesses also resulted in the revision of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2022 and as of and for the interim periods ended March 31, 2022, June 30, 2022, September 30, 2022, March 31, 2023, June 30, 2023, and September 30, 2023. Also, these material weaknesses resulted in adjustments to debt current portion and long-term debt, other income, additional paid in capital, gain on fair value of warrants, interest expense, revenue and contract assets, and loss on debt extinguishment which were recorded prior to the issuance of the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2023. Additionally, these material weaknesses could result in a misstatement of substantially all of our accounts or disclosures that would result in a material misstatement to the annual or interim consolidated financial statements that would not be prevented or detected. We did not design and maintain effective controls over certain information technology (IT) general controls for information systems that are relevant to the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Specifically, we did not design and maintain effective: o user access controls to ensure appropriate segregation of duties and that adequately restrict user and privileged access to financial applications, programs, and data to appropriate company personnel; and o program change management controls to ensure that information technology program and data changes affecting certain financial IT applications and underlying accounting records are identified, tested, authorized and implemented appropriately. 30 These IT deficiencies did not result in a misstatement to the consolidated financial statements, however, the deficiencies, when aggregated, could impact maintaining effective segregation of duties, as well as the effectiveness of IT dependent controls (such as automated controls that address the risk of material misstatement to one or more assertions, along with the IT controls and underlying data that support the effectiveness of system-generated data and reports) that could result in misstatements potentially impacting all consolidated financial statement accounts and disclosures that would not be prevented or detected. Accordingly, management has determined these deficiencies in the aggregate constitute a material weakness. Although we intend to take measures to remediate these material weaknesses, there can be no assurance that the material weaknesses will be remediated on a timely basis or at all, or that additional material weaknesses will not be identified or occur in the future, which could result in material misstatements of our interim or annual consolidated financial statements. If we are unable to remediate the material weaknesses or additional material weaknesses are identified in the future, our ability to record, process and report financial information accurately, and to prepare consolidated financial statements within the time periods specified by the rules and forms of the SEC, could be adversely affected which, in turn, may adversely affect our reputation and business and the market price of our securities. In particular, if our consolidated financial statements are not accurate, investors may not have a complete understanding of our operations. Likewise, if our consolidated financial statements are not filed on a timely basis, we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the stock exchange on which our securities are listed, the SEC or other regulatory authorities. In either case, this could result in a material adverse effect on our business. Failure to timely file will cause us to be ineligible to utilize short form registration statements on Form S-3, which may impair our ability to obtain capital in a timely fashion to execute our business strategies or issue shares to effect an acquisition. Some of our arrangements for additive manufacturing solutions contain customer-specific provisions that may impact the period in which we recognize the related revenues under GAAP. Certain customers that purchase additive manufacturing solutions from us require specific, customized factors relating to their intended use of the solution or the installation of the product in the customers facilities. These specific, customized factors are occasionally required by our customers to be included in our commercial agreements relating to the purchases. As a result, our responsiveness to our customers specific requirements has the potential to impact the period in which we recognize the revenue relating to that additive manufacturing system sale. Similarly, some of our customers must build or prepare facilities to install a subset of our additive manufacturing solutions, and the completion of such projects can be unpredictable, which can impact the period in which we recognize the revenue relating to that additive manufacturing solution sale. We rely on our information technology systems to manage numerous aspects of our business and a disruption of these systems could adversely affect our business. We rely on our information technology systems to manage numerous aspects of our business, including to efficiently purchase products from our suppliers, provide procurement and logistic services, ship products to our customers, manage our accounting and financial functions, including our internal controls, and maintain our R&D data. Our information technology systems are an essential component of our business and any disruption could significantly limit our ability to manage and operate our business efficiently. A failure of our information technology systems to perform properly could disrupt our supply chain, product development and customer experience, which may lead to increased overhead costs and decreased sales and have an adverse effect on our reputation and our financial condition. Although we take steps and incur significant costs to secure our information technology systems, including our computer systems, intranet and internet sites, email and other telecommunications and data networks, our security measures may not be effective and our systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption. The failure of any such systems or the failure of such systems to scale as our business grows could adversely affect our results of operations. Disruption to our information technology systems could result from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, cyber-attack or other security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, acts of war, terrorism and usage errors by our employees. 31 We have engaged with third-party auditors to identify risk factors based on the NIST SP 800-171 framework (which provides recommended requirements for protecting the confidentiality of controlled unclassified information) that affect data security within our internal network and external products. These audits include compliance reviews and penetration tests where applicable. A prioritized list of remediations to strengthen our security posture are in progress, and there are risks associated with unaddressed vulnerabilities in the meantime including risk of data loss, malware, and ransomware. We have taken steps to protect customer data within our products by applying strong encryption to files both in transit and at rest. Our reputation and financial condition could be adversely affected if, as a result of a significant cyber-event or otherwise: our operations are disrupted or shut down; our or our customers or employees confidential, proprietary information is stolen or disclosed; we incur costs or are required to pay fines in connection with stolen customer, employee or other confidential information; we must dedicate significant resources to system repairs or increase cyber security protection; or we otherwise incur significant litigation or other costs. If our computer systems are damaged or cease to function properly, or, if we do not replace or upgrade certain systems, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them and may experience an interruption of our normal business activities or loss of critical data. Any such disruption could adversely affect our reputation and financial condition. We also rely on information technology systems maintained by third parties, including third-party cloud computing services and the computer systems of our suppliers for both our internal operations and our customer-facing infrastructure related to our additive manufacturing solutions. These systems are also vulnerable to the types of interruption and damage described above but we have less ability to take measures to protect against such disruptions or to resolve them if they were to occur. Information technology problems faced by third parties on which we rely could adversely impact our business and financial condition as well as negatively impact our brand reputation. Our current levels of insurance may not be adequate for our potential liabilities. We maintain insurance to cover our potential exposure for most claims and losses, including potential product and non-product related claims, lawsuits and administrative proceedings seeking damages or other remedies arising out of our commercial operations. However, our insurance coverage is subject to various exclusions, self-retentions and deductibles. We may be faced with types of liabilities that are not covered under our insurance policies, such as environmental contamination or terrorist attacks, or that exceed our policy limits. Even a partially uninsured claim of significant size, if successful, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance coverage on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and our existing policies may be cancelled or otherwise terminated by the insurer. Maintaining adequate insurance and successfully accessing insurance coverage that may be due for a claim can require a significant amount of our managements time, and we may be forced to spend a substantial amount of money in that process. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The tax regimes we are subject to or operate under, including income and non-income taxes, are unsettled and may be subject to significant change. Changes in tax laws, regulations, or rulings, or changes in interpretations of existing laws and regulations, could materially affect our financial position and results of operations. For example, the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act) made broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code, including changes to U.S. federal tax rates, additional limitations on the deductibility of interest, both positive and negative changes to the utilization of future net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards, allowing for the 32 expensing of certain capital expenditures, and putting into effect the migration from a worldwide system of taxation to a more territorial system. Future guidance from the IRS with respect to the Tax Act may affect us, and certain aspects of the Tax Act could be repealed or modified in future legislation. The Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the CARES Act) has already modified certain provisions of the Tax Act. The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (the IRA), enacted on August 16, 2022, further amended the U.S. tax code, imposing a 15% minimum tax on adjusted financial statement income of certain corporations as well as an excise tax on the repurchase or redemption of stock by certain corporations, beginning in the 2023 tax year. In addition, it is uncertain if and to what extent various states will conform to the Tax Act, the CARES Act, the IRA or any newly enacted federal tax legislation. The issuance of additional regulatory or accounting guidance related to the Tax Act could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate in the period issued. As we continue to expand internationally, we will be subject to other jurisdictions around the world with increasingly complex tax laws, the application of which can be uncertain. The amount of taxes we pay in these jurisdictions could increase substantially as a result of changes in the applicable tax principles, including increased tax rates, new tax laws or revised interpretations of existing tax laws and precedents, which could have an adverse impact on our liquidity and results of operations. In addition, the authorities in several jurisdictions could review our tax returns and impose additional tax, interest and penalties, which could have an impact on us and on our results of operations. In addition, many countries in Europe and a number of other countries and organizations, have recently proposed or recommended changes to existing tax laws or have enacted new laws that could significantly increase our tax obligations in the countries where we do or intend to do business or require us to change the manner in which we operate our business. As we expand the scale of our international business activities, these types of changes to the taxation of our activities could increase our worldwide effective tax rate, increase the amount of taxes imposed on our business, and harm our financial position. Such changes also may apply retroactively to our historical operations and result in taxes greater than the amounts estimated and recorded in our consolidated financial statements. Some members of our management have limited experience in operating a public company. Some of our executive officers have limited experience in the management of a publicly traded company. Our management team may not successfully or effectively manage the significant public company regulatory oversight and reporting obligations under federal securities laws. Our limited experience in dealing with the increasingly complex laws pertaining to public companies could be a significant disadvantage in that it is likely that an increasing amount of their time may be devoted to these activities, which will result in less time being devoted to the management and growth of the company. We may not have adequate personnel with the appropriate level of knowledge, experience and training in the accounting policies, practices or internal control over financial reporting required of public companies. The development and implementation of the standards and controls and the hiring of experienced personnel necessary to achieve the level of accounting standards required of a public company may require costs greater than expected. Market conditions, economic uncertainty or downturns could adversely affect our business and operating results. In recent years, the United States and other significant markets have experienced cyclical downturns and worldwide economic conditions remain uncertain, including as a result of outbreaks of epidemic diseases (including COVID-19 and variants), supply chain disruptions, the war in Ukraine and the war in Israel, instability in the U.S. and global banking systems, rising fuel prices, increasing interest rates or foreign exchange rates, changes in U.S. presidential administrations and government policies and priorities and, as discussed in more detail below, high inflation and the possibility of a recession. Economic uncertainty and associated macroeconomic conditions make it extremely difficult for our customers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and could cause our customers to slow spending on our products, which could delay and lengthen sales cycles. A significant downturn in economic activity, or general spending on additive manufacturing systems, may cause our current or potential customers to react by reducing their capital and operating expenditures in general or by specifically reducing their spending on additive manufacturing systems and related technologies. Moreover, competitors may respond to challenging market conditions by lowering prices and attempting to lure away our customers. 33 We cannot predict the timing, strength, or duration of any economic slowdown or any subsequent recovery generally, or in any industry. If the conditions in the general economy and the markets in which we operate worsen from present levels, our business, financial condition, and operating results could be adversely affected. For example, recent tariff actions have resulted in market uncertainty and volatility. Continued market uncertainty or volatility, or any broader economic challenges resulting from adverse developments in internal trade policies, could adversely affect the price of our stock and our ability to raise additional capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We may be adversely affected by the effects of inflation or possible stagflation. Inflation or possible stagflation in the United States and other regions has the potential to adversely affect our liquidity, business, financial condition and operating results. For example, our current and potential customers may choose to limit their spending on and budgets for our additive manufacturing systems as a response to decreased spending by their own customers and consumers. The existence of inflation in certain economies has resulted in, and may continue to result in, higher interest rates and foreign exchange rates and capital costs, increased costs of labor, weakening exchange rates and other similar effects. Although we may take measures to mitigate the impact of this inflation, if these measures are not effective, our business, financial condition, operating results and liquidity may be materially adversely affected. Even if such measures are effective, there could be a difference between the timing of when these beneficial actions impact our operating results and when the cost of inflation is incurred. Inflation and any economic challenges may also adversely impact spending patterns by our customers. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices as well as interpretations thereof may cause adverse, unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and affect our results of operations. The accounting rules and regulations that we must comply with are complex and subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the FASB), the SEC and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. Recent actions and public comments from the FASB and the SEC have focused on the integrity of financial reporting and internal controls. In addition, many companies accounting policies and treatment are being subjected to heightened scrutiny by regulators and the public. Further, accounting rules and regulations as well as their interpretations are continually changing in ways that could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. We cannot predict the impact of future changes to accounting principles or interpretations thereof or our accounting policies on our consolidated financial statements going forward, which could have a significant effect on our reported financial results and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of the change. Risks Related to Third Parties We could be subject to personal injury, property damage, product liability, warranty and other claims involving allegedly defective products that we supply. The products we supply are sometimes used in potentially hazardous or critical applications, such as the assembled parts of an aircraft, that could result in death, personal injury, property damage, loss of production, punitive damages and consequential damages. While we have not experienced any such claims to date, actual or claimed defects in the products we supply could result in our being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting potentially large claims. We attempt to include legal provisions in our agreements and purchase orders with customers that are designed to limit our exposure to potential liability for damages arising from defects or errors in our products. However, it is possible that these limitations may not be effective as a result of unfavorable judicial decisions or laws enacted in the future. Any such lawsuit, regardless of merit, could result in material expense, diversion of management time and efforts and damage to our reputation, and could cause us to fail to retain or attract customers, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 34 We depend on independent contractors and third parties to provide key services in our product development and operations, and any disruption of their services, or an increase in cost of these services, could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on subcontractors to provide cost effective and efficient services in supply chain functions, including sourcing certain subcomponents and assemblies, and in product development activities. Our operations and operating results may be negatively impacted if we experience problems with our subcontractors that impact the delivery of product to our customers. These problems may include: delays in software or hardware development timelines, prolonged inability to obtain components with competitive performance and cost attributes; inability to achieve adequate yields or timely delivery; inability to meet customer timelines or demands, disruption or defects in assembly, test or shipping services; or delays in stabilizing manufacturing processes or ramping up volume for new products. If our third-party supply chain providers were to reduce or discontinue services for us or their operations are disrupted as a result of a fire, earthquake, act of terrorism, political unrest, governmental uncertainty, war, disease, or other natural disaster or catastrophic event, weak economic conditions or any other reason, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may rely heavily on future collaborative and supply chain partners. We have entered into, and may enter into, strategic collaborations and partnerships to develop and commercialize our current and future R&D programs with other companies to accomplish one or more of the following: obtain capital, equipment and facilities; obtain expertise in relevant markets; obtain access to components; obtain sales and marketing services or support; and/or obtain support services and other downstream supply chain support. We may not be successful in establishing or maintaining suitable collaborations and partnerships, and we may not be able to negotiate collaboration or partnership agreements having terms satisfactory to us, or at all. Failure to make or maintain these arrangements or a delay or failure in a collaborative partners performance under any such arrangements could harm our business and financial condition. If our suppliers become unavailable or inadequate, our customer relationships, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We acquire certain of our materials, which are critical to the ongoing operation and future growth of our business, from several third parties. We face risks from financial difficulties or other uncertainties experienced by our suppliers, distributors or other third parties on which we rely. We do not have long-term agreements with any of these suppliers that obligate them to continue to sell components, subsystems, systems or products to us. Our reliance on these suppliers involves significant risks and uncertainties, including whether the suppliers will provide an adequate supply of required components, subsystems or systems of sufficient quality will increase prices for the components, subsystems or systems and will perform their obligations on a timely basis. In addition, certain suppliers have long lead times, which we cannot control. If third parties are unable to supply us with required materials or components or otherwise assist us in operating our business, our business could be harmed. In addition, compliance with the SECs conflict minerals regulations may increase our costs and adversely impact the supply-chain for our products. While most manufacturing equipment and materials for our products are available from multiple suppliers, certain of those items are only available from limited sources. Should any of these suppliers become unavailable or inadequate, or impose terms 35 unacceptable to us, such as increased pricing terms, we could be required to spend a significant amount of time and expense to develop alternate sources of supply, and we may not be successful in doing so on terms acceptable to us, or at all. As a result, the loss of a limited source supplier could adversely affect our relationship with our customers, as well as our results of operations and financial condition. Our facility as well as our suppliers and our customers facilities are vulnerable to disruption due to natural or other disasters, strikes and other events beyond our control. A major earthquake, fire, tsunami, hurricane, cyclone or other disaster, such as a pandemic, major flood, seasonal storms, nuclear event or terrorist attack affecting our facility or the area in which it is located, or affecting those of our suppliers or customers, could significantly disrupt our or their operations and delay or prevent product shipment or installation during the time required to repair, rebuild or replace our or their damaged manufacturing facilities. Moreover, extreme weather and other natural disasters may become more intense or more frequent. Any resulting delays from these events could be lengthy and costly. If any of our suppliers or customers facilities are negatively impacted by such a disaster, production, shipment and installation of our 3D printing machines could be delayed, which can impact the period in which we recognize the revenue related to that 3D printing machine sale. Additionally, customers may delay purchases of our products until operations return to normal. Even if we are able to respond quickly to a disaster, the continued effects of the disaster could create uncertainty in our business operations. In addition, concerns about terrorism, the effects of a terrorist attack, political turmoil, labor strikes, war (including the Ukrainian - Russia and the Israel - Hamas conflicts) or the outbreak of epidemic diseases (including the outbreak of COVID-19 and variants) could have a negative effect on our operations and sales. Risks Related to Operations We operate primarily at one facility location, and any disruption at our facility could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our principal offices are located in Fremont, California. Substantially all of our R&D activities, customer and technical support, management and administrative operations, and our final assembly and testing operations are conducted at the facility in Fremont, California. Our inventory of component supplies, subassemblies and finished goods are held at our Fremont facility and third-party warehouses. We take precautions to safeguard our facility, including acquiring insurance, employing back-up generators, adopting health and safety protocols and utilizing off-site storage of computer data. However, vandalism, terrorism or a natural or other disaster, such as an earthquake, fire or flood, could damage or destroy our manufacturing equipment or our inventory of component supplies or finished goods, cause substantial delays in our operations, result in the loss of key information and cause us to incur additional expenses. Recent prolonged power outages due to California wildfires may cause substantial delays in our operations and the impact of these wildfires and other natural disasters may be exacerbated in the future as a result of climate change. Our insurance may not cover our losses in any particular case. In addition, regardless of the level of insurance coverage, damage to our facilities may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Maintenance, expansion and refurbishment of our facilities, the construction of new facilities and the development and implementation of new manufacturing processes involve significant risks. Our existing facilities and any of our future facilities may require regular or periodic maintenance, upgrading, expansion, refurbishment or improvement. Any unexpected operational or mechanical failure, including failure associated with breakdowns and forced outages, could reduce our facilities production capacity below expected levels, which would reduce our production capabilities and ultimately our revenues. Unanticipated capital expenditures associated with maintaining, upgrading, expanding, repairing, refurbishing or improving our facilities may also reduce our profitability. Our facilities also may be subject to unanticipated damage as a result of natural disasters, terrorist attacks or other events. If we make any major modifications to our facilities, such modifications likely would result in substantial additional capital expenditures and could prolong the time necessary to bring the facility online. We also may choose to refurbish or upgrade our 36 facilities based on our assessment that such activity will provide adequate financial returns. However, such activities require time for development and capital expenditures before commencement of commercial operations, and key assumptions underpinning a decision to make such an investment may prove incorrect, including assumptions regarding construction costs and timing, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Finally, we may not be successful or efficient in developing or implementing new production processes. Innovation in production processes involves significant expense and carries inherent risks, including difficulties in designing and developing new process technologies, development and production timing delays, and product defects. Disruptions in the production process can also result from errors, defects in materials, delays in obtaining or revising operating permits and licenses, returns of product from customers, interruption in our supply of materials or resources, and disruptions at our facilities due to accidents, maintenance issues, or unsafe working conditions, all of which could affect the timing of production ramps. Production issues can lead to increased costs and may affect our ability to meet product demand, which could adversely impact our business and results from operations. Risks Related to Compliance Matters We are subject to U.S. and other anti-corruption laws, trade controls, economic sanctions and similar laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to civil, criminal and administrative penalties and harm our reputation. Doing business on a worldwide basis requires us to comply with the laws and regulations of the U.S. government and various foreign jurisdictions. These laws and regulations place restrictions on our operations, trade practices, partners and investments. In particular, our operations are subject to U.S. and foreign anti-corruption and trade control laws and regulations, such as the FCPA and the Bribery Act, export controls and economic sanctions programs, including those administered by the U.S. Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC), the State Departments Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (DDTC) and the Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) of the Department of Commerce. As a result of doing business in foreign countries and with foreign customers, we are exposed to a heightened risk of violating anti-corruption and trade control laws and sanctions regulations. In February 2025, President Donald J. Trump issued an executive order directing the U.S. Department of Justice to pause enforcement of the FCPA and to issue new enforcement guidelines that take into consideration U.S. national security and the competitiveness of U.S. companies abroad. It is unclear how this presidential directive may affect our industry as a whole or our business in particular. Notwithstanding President Trumps recent executive order to suspend enforcement of the FCPA, as part of our business, we may deal with state-owned business enterprises, the employees of which are considered foreign officials for purposes of the FCPAs prohibition on providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purposes of obtaining or retaining business or securing any improper business advantage. In addition, the provisions of the Bribery Act extend beyond bribery of foreign public officials and also apply to transactions with individuals that a government does not employ. Some of the international locations in which we operate lack a developed legal system and have higher than normal levels of corruption. Our continued expansion outside the U.S., primarily in Europe, South-East Asia and Oceania, and our development of new partnerships worldwide, could increase the risk of FCPA, OFAC or Bribery Act violations in the future. As an exporter, we must comply with various laws and regulations relating to the export of products and technology from the U.S. and other countries having jurisdiction over our operations. In the United States, these laws include the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) administered by the DDTC, the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) administered by the BIS and trade sanctions against embargoed countries and destinations administered by OFAC. The EAR governs products, parts, technology and software which present military or weapons proliferation concerns, so-called dual use items, and ITAR governs military items listed on the United States Munitions List. Prior to shipping certain items, we must obtain an export license or verify that license exemptions are available. Any failures to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines, adverse publicity and restrictions on our ability to export our products, and repeat failures could carry more significant penalties. 37 Violations of anti-corruption and trade control laws and sanctions regulations are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment from government contracts and revocations or restrictions of licenses, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment and could harm our reputation, create negative shareholder sentiment and affect the value of our securities. We have established policies and procedures designed to assist our compliance with applicable U.S. and international anti-corruption and trade control laws and regulations, including the FCPA, the Bribery Act and trade controls and sanctions programs administered by OFAC, the DDTC and BIS, and have trained our employees to comply with these laws and regulations. However, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, consultants, agents or other associated persons will not take actions in violation of our policies and these laws and regulations. Additionally, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will effectively prevent us from violating these regulations in every transaction in which we may engage or provide a defense to any alleged violation. In particular, we may be held liable for the actions that our joint venture partners take inside or outside of the United States, even though our partners may not be subject to these laws. Such a violation, even if our policies prohibit it, could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, various state and municipal governments, universities and other investors maintain prohibitions or restrictions on investments in companies that do business with sanctioned countries, persons and entities, which could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations related to our operations and the use of our additive manufacturing systems and consumable materials, which could subject us to compliance costs and/or potential liability in the event of non-compliance. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations governing our operations, including, but not limited to, emissions into the air and water and the use, handling, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances. A certain risk of environmental liability is inherent in our production activities. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, the generation, use, storage, registration, handling and disposal of chemicals and waste materials, the presence of specified substances in electrical products, the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air or water, the cleanup of contaminated sites, including any contamination that results from spills due to our failure to properly dispose of chemicals and other waste materials and the health and safety of our employees. Under these laws, regulations and requirements, we also could be subject to liability for improper disposal of chemicals and waste materials, including those resulting from the use of our systems and accompanying materials by end-users. Accidents or other incidents that occur at our facilities or involve our personnel or operations could result in claims for damages against us. Compliance with extensive environmental, health and safety laws could require material expenditures, changes in our operations or site remediation. In addition, we use hazardous materials in our business, and we must comply with environmental laws and regulations associated therewith. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials or noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations could be time consuming and costly and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In the event we are found to be financially responsible, as a result of environmental or other laws or by court order, for environmental damages alleged to have been caused by us or occurring on our premises, we could be required to pay substantial monetary damages or undertake expensive remedial obligations. If our operations fail to comply with such laws or regulations, we may be subject to fines and other civil, administrative or criminal sanctions, including the revocation of permits and licenses necessary to continue our business activities. In addition, we may be required to pay damages or civil judgments in respect of third-party claims, including those relating to personal injury (including exposure to hazardous substances that we generate, use, store, handle, transport, manufacture or dispose of), property damage or contribution claims. Some environmental laws allow for strict, joint and several liabilities for remediation costs, regardless of fault. We may be identified as a potentially responsible party under such laws. The amount of any costs, including fines or damages payments that we might incur under such circumstances could substantially exceed any insurance we have to cover such losses. Any of these events, alone or in combination, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could adversely affect our reputation. The export of our products internationally from our production facilities subjects us to environmental laws and regulations concerning the import and export of chemicals and hazardous substances such as the United States Toxic Substances Control Act and the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemical Substances. These laws and regulations require the testing and 38 registration of some chemicals that we ship along with, or that form a part of, our systems and other products. If we fail to comply with these or similar laws and regulations, we may be required to make significant expenditures to reformulate the chemicals that we use in our products and materials or incur costs to register such chemicals to gain and/or regain compliance. Additionally, we could be subject to significant fines or other civil and criminal penalties should we not achieve such compliance. The cost of complying with current and future environmental, health and safety laws applicable to our operations, or the liabilities arising from past releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances, may result in future expenditures. Any of these developments, alone or in combination, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Aspects of our business are subject to privacy, data use and data security regulations, which could increase our costs. We collect personally identifiable information from our employees, prospects, and our customers. Privacy and security laws and regulations may limit the use and disclosure of certain information and require us to adopt certain cybersecurity and data handling practices that may affect our ability to effectively market our services to current, past or prospective customers. We must comply with privacy laws in the United States, Europe and elsewhere, including the General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR) in the European Union (EU), which became effective May 25, 2018, and the California Privacy Rights Act, which became effective on January 1, 2023. Further, in connection with its withdrawal from the EU, the United Kingdom has implemented the GDPR as of January 1, 2021 (as it existed on December 31, 2020 but subject to certain UK-specific amendments). These laws create new individual privacy rights and impose increased obligations, including disclosure obligations, on companies handling personal data. In many jurisdictions, consumers must be notified in the event of a data security breach, and such notification requirements continue to increase in scope and cost. Privacy and security laws and regulations may limit the use and disclosure of certain information and require us to adopt certain cybersecurity and data handling practices that may affect our ability to effectively market our services to current, past or prospective customers. While we have invested in, and intend to continue to invest in, resources to comply with these standards, we may not be successful in doing so, and any such failure could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and reputation. As privacy, data use and data security laws are interpreted and applied, compliance costs may increase, particularly in the context of ensuring that adequate data protection and data transfer mechanisms are in place. In recent years, there has been increasing regulatory enforcement and litigation activity in this area in the United States and in various other countries in which we operate. Risks Related to Intellectual Property Our business relies on technological and other innovations embodied in various forms of proprietary information and other intellectual property ("IP") related information. Our failure to protect our IP rights could potentially harm our competitive advantages to an extent (e.g., with respect to the use, manufacturing, lease, sale, or other commercialization of our processes, technologies and products), which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may be required to make significant capital investments into the R&D of proprietary information and other IP as we develop, improve and scale our processes, technologies and products, and failure to fund and make these investments, or underperformance of the technology funded by these investments, could severely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. From time to time, we collaborate with partners on certain R&D activities and the success of such R&D activities is aided by the cooperation of such partners. In addition, our failure to adequately protect our IP rights could result in the reduction or loss of our competitive advantage. We may be unable to prevent third parties from using our proprietary information and other IP without our authorization or from independently developing proprietary information and other IP that is similar to ours, particularly in those countries where the laws do not protect our proprietary rights to the same degree as in the U.S. or those countries where we do not have IP rights protection. The use of our proprietary information and other IP by others could reduce or eliminate competitive advantages that we have developed, potentially causing us to lose sales, licensing opportunities, actual or potential customers, or otherwise harm our business. If it 39 becomes necessary for us to litigate to protect these IP rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and costly, could result in counterclaims challenging our IP (including validity or enforceability) or accusing us of infringement, and we may not prevail. Our patent applications and issued patents may be practiced by third parties without our knowledge. Our competitors may also attempt to design around our patents or copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information and other IP. Moreover, our competitors may already hold or have applied for patents in the U.S. or abroad that, if enforced, could possibly prevail over our patent rights or otherwise limit our ability to manufacture, sell or otherwise commercialize one or more of our products in the U.S. or abroad. With respect to our pending patent applications, we may not be successful in securing issued patents, or the claims of such patents may be narrowed, any of which may limit our ability to protect inventions that these applications were intended to cover, which could harm our ability to prevent others from exploiting our technologies and commercializing products similar to our products. In addition, the expiration of a patent can result in increased competition with consequent erosion of profit margins. Our confidentiality agreements could be breached or may not provide meaningful protection for at least a portion of our trade secrets or proprietary manufacturing expertise. Adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and manufacturing expertise. Violations by others of our confidentiality agreements and the loss of employees who have specialized knowledge and expertise could harm our competitive position resulting from the exclusive nature of such knowledge and expertise and cause our sales and operating results to decline as a result of increased competition. In addition, others may obtain knowledge of our trade secrets through independent development or other access by legal means. The applicable governmental authorities may not approve our pending service mark and trademark applications. A failure to obtain trademark registrations in the U.S. and in other countries could limit our ability to obtain and retain our trademarks in those jurisdictions. Moreover, third parties may seek to oppose our applications or otherwise challenge the resulting registrations. In the event that our trademarks are not approved or are successfully challenged by third parties, we could be forced to rebrand our products, which could result in loss of brand recognition and could require us to devote significant resources to rebranding and advertising and marketing new brands. We could be sued by third parties who, unbeknown to us and to government agencies allowing for registration of our trademark, previously used our registered trademark in the market before we did. The failure of any of our patents, trademarks, trade names, trade secrets, other IP rights, IP right assignments, or confidentiality agreements to protect our proprietary information and other IP, including our processes, systems, apparatuses, devices, software, composition of matter (e.g., 3D objects), our other proprietary manufacturing expertise, and any other of our technology and know-how, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Third-party lawsuits and assertions to which we are subject alleging our infringement of patents, trade secrets or other IP rights may have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition. Third parties may own issued patents and pending patent applications that exist in fields relevant to additive manufacturing or any other technology related to our products. Some of these third parties may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. There may be third-party patents or patent applications with claims related to additive manufacturing or any other technology related to our products. Because patent applications can take many years to issue as patents, there may be currently pending patent applications which may later result in issued patents that our technologies may potentially infringe in the future. In addition, third parties may obtain patents in the future and claim that our technologies infringe upon these obtained patents. Any third-party lawsuits or other assertion to which we are subject alleging our infringement of patents, trade secrets or any other IP rights may have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition. We may incur substantial costs enforcing and defending our IP rights. We may incur substantial expense and costs in protecting, enforcing and defending our IP rights against third parties. IP disputes may be costly and can be substantially disruptive to our business operations by diverting attention and energies of management and key technical personnel and by increasing our costs of doing business. Third-party IP claims asserted against us could subject us to significant liabilities, require us to enter into royalty and licensing arrangements on unfavorable terms, prevent us from assembling or 40 licensing certain of our products, subject us to injunctions restricting our sale of products, cause severe disruptions to our operations or the marketplaces in which we compete or require us to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers, including contractual provisions under various license arrangements. In addition, we may incur significant costs in acquiring the necessary third-party IP rights for use in our products. Any and all of these could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. If we are unable to adequately protect or enforce our IP rights, such information may be used by others to compete against us. We have devoted substantial resources to the development of our technology and related IP rights. Our success and future revenue growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect the various facets of our IP. We rely on a combination of registered and unregistered IP and protect our rights using patents, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality agreements, and assignment of invention agreements and other methods. Despite our efforts to protect our IP and proprietary rights, it is possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, use or disclose our technologies, inventions, processes, improvements, or any other IP. We cannot assure that any of our existing or future patents or other IP rights will not be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, or will otherwise provide us with meaningful protection. Our pending patent applications may not be granted, and we may not be able to obtain foreign patents or pending applications corresponding to our U.S. patents. Even if foreign patents are granted, effective enforcement in foreign countries may not be available. Our trade secrets, know-how and other unregistered proprietary rights are a key aspect of our IP portfolio. While we take reasonable steps to protect our proprietary information and IP in trade secrets and other forms of confidential information protection, and enter into confidentiality agreements and invention assignment agreements intended to protect such rights, such agreements can be difficult and costly to enforce or may not provide adequate remedies if violated, and we may have inadvertently not have entered into such agreements with all relevant parties, or some of the agreements may prove invalid in all jurisdictions. Such agreements may be breached, and trade secrets or confidential information may be willfully or unintentionally disclosed, including by employees who may leave our company and join our competitors, or our competitors or other parties may learn of the information in some other way. The disclosure to, or independent development by, a competitor of our proprietary information and IP including trade secrets, know-how or other technology related information not protected by a patent or other IP system could materially reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage that we may have over such competitor. If our patents and other forms of IP protection do not adequately protect our technology, our competitors may be able to offer products similar to ours. Our competitors may also be able to develop similar technology independently, reverse engineer our technology, or design around our patents and other forms of IP protection. Any of the foregoing events would lead to increased competition and reduce our revenue or gross margin, which would adversely affect our operating results. If we attempt enforcement of our IP rights, we may be subject or party to claims, negotiations or complex, protracted litigation. IP disputes and litigation, regardless of merit, can be substantially costly and disruptive to our business operations, e.g., by diverting attention and energies of management and key technical personnel and by increasing our costs of doing business. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business and financial condition. As part of any settlement or other compromise to avoid complex, protracted litigation, we may agree not to pursue future claims against a third party, including related to alleged infringement of our IP rights. Part of any settlement or other compromise with another party may resolve a potentially costly dispute but may also have future repercussions on our ability to defend and protect our IP rights, which in turn could adversely affect our business. Our additive manufacturing software contains third-party open-source software components, and failure to comply with the terms of the underlying open-source software licenses could restrict our ability to sell our products. Our additive manufacturing software contains components that are licensed under so-called open-source, free, or other similar licenses. Open-source software is made available to the general public on an as-is basis under the terms of a non-negotiable 41 license. We currently combine our proprietary software with open-source software, but not in a manner that we believe requires the release of the source code of our proprietary software to the public. We do not plan to integrate our proprietary software with open-source software in ways that would require the release of our proprietary software's source code to the public; however, our use and distribution of open-source software may entail greater risks than use of third-party commercial software. Open-source licensors generally do not provide warranties or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the code. In addition, if we combine our proprietary software with open-source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain open-source licenses, be required to release to the public or remove the source code of our proprietary software. We may also face claims alleging noncompliance with open-source license terms or infringement or misappropriation of proprietary software. These claims could result in litigation, require us to purchase a costly license, or remove the software. In addition, if the license terms for open-source software that we use change, we may be forced to re-engineer our solutions, incur additional costs or discontinue the sale of our offerings if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis. Although we monitor our use of open-source software to avoid subjecting our offerings to unintended conditions, there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a way that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our offerings. We cannot guarantee that we have incorporated open-source software in our software in a manner that will not subject us to liability or in a manner that is consistent with our current policies and procedures. Risks Related to Our Notes The terms of the Notes restrict our current and future operations. Upon an event of default, we may not be able to make any accelerated payments under the Notes or our other permitted indebtedness. As of December 31, 2024, we had approximately $5.0 million aggregate principal amount of the Secured Notes outstanding. In addition, we have granted the holders of the Secured Notes the right to purchase up to an additional $35.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our senior secured convertible notes due 2026 (the Additional Secured Convertible Notes) so long as the notice to exercise such option is provided no later than the August 14, 2025. We refer to the Secured Notes and the Secured Convertible Notes collectively as the Notes. The Secured Notes contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interest. In particular, the Secured Notes contain customary affirmative and negative covenants (including covenants that limit our ability to incur debt, make investments, transfer assets, engage in certain transactions with affiliates and merge with other companies, in each case, other than those permitted by the Notes) and events of default. Our ability to meet the financial tests under the Notes can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may be unable to meet them. A breach of the covenants or restrictions under the Notes or under the agreements governing any of our other permitted indebtedness could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. Such a default may allow holders of the Notes or the holders or lenders of our other permitted indebtedness, as appropriate, to accelerate the related indebtedness, which may result in the acceleration of other indebtedness to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, such lenders or holders could terminate commitments to lend money, if any. Furthermore, if we were unable to repay the Notes or other permitted indebtedness, then due and payable, secured lenders could proceed against the assets, if any, securing such indebtedness. In the event such lenders or holders accelerate the repayment of the Notes or our other permitted borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. A default would also significantly diminish the market price of our common stock and our public warrants. As a result of these restrictions, we may be limited in how we conduct and grow our business, or unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. These restrictions may affect our ability to grow in accordance with our strategy. 42 Conversion of any Secured Convertible Notes may dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders or may otherwise depress the price of our common stock. In January and February 2025, we issued Senior Secured Convertible Promissory Notes for the aggregate principal amount of $15 million. If we issue any Additional Secured Convertible Notes, the conversion of such Notes will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders to the extent we deliver shares upon conversion of such Notes. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, if we issue any Additional Secured Convertible Notes, the existence of such Notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of such Notes could be used to satisfy short positions, or anticipated conversion of such Notes into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Common Stock and Our Public Warrants Our Chief Executive Officer has the ability to control or significantly influence all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval. As of December 24, 2024, an entity controlled by Arun Jeldi, our Chief Executive Officer and a member of our Board, owns approximately 95% of our outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, Mr. Jeldi is able to control or significantly influence all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, as well as our management and affairs. For example, Mr. Jeldi would control or significantly influence the election of directors and approval of any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentration of voting power could delay or prevent an acquisition of the Company on terms that other stockholders may desire. Substamtial sales of our common stock could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Substantial sales of our common stock could cause the price of our common stock to decline. We have entered, or have agreed to enter into, certain registration rights agreements that provide for the registration of the resale of substantially all of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock, as well as shares of common stock underlying certain promissory notes. Following the filing and effectiveness of registration statements covering such resales, such shares of common stock may be sold by the selling stockholders in the public market (subject to Rule 144 control securities restrictions). If the selling stockholders sell, or the market perceives that the selling stockholders intend to sell for various reasons, substantial amounts of the shares of our common stock in the public market, the price of our common stock will likely decline. Additionally, such conditions may make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem reasonable or appropriate. Warrant holders may only be able to exercise their public warrants on a cashless basis under certain circumstances, and if such warrant holders do so, they will receive fewer shares of common stock from such exercise than if they were to exercise such warrants for cash. The warrant agreement governing the public warrants and the private placement warrants provides that in the following circumstances holders of the public warrants who seek to exercise their warrants will not be permitted to do for cash and will, instead, be required to do so on a cashless basis in accordance with Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Act: (i) if the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants are not registered under the Securities Act in accordance with the terms of the warrant agreement; (ii) if we have so elected and the shares of common stock are at the time of any exercise of a warrant are not listed on a national securities exchange such that they satisfy the definition of covered securities under Section 18(b)(1) of the Securities Act; and (iii) if we have so elected and we call the public warrants for redemption. If warrant holders exercise their public warrants on a cashless basis, they would pay the warrant exercise price by surrendering all of the warrants for that number of common stock equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (x) the product of the number of common stock underlying the warrants, multiplied by the excess of the fair market value of our common stock (as defined in the next sentence) over the exercise price of the warrants by (y) the fair market value. The fair market value is the average reported last sale price of the common stock for the 10 trading days ending on the third trading day prior to the date on which the notice of exercise is received by the warrant agent or on which the notice of 43 redemption is sent to the holders of warrants, as applicable. As a result, warrant holders would receive fewer shares of common stock from such exercise than if they were to exercise such warrants for cash. We are an emerging growth company and a smaller reporting company within the meaning of the Securities Act, and if we take advantage of certain exemptions from disclosure requirements available to emerging growth companies or smaller reporting companies, this could make our securities less attractive to investors and may make it more difficult to compare our performance with other public companies. We are an emerging growth company within the meaning of the Securities Act, as modified by the JOBS Act, and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. As a result, our stockholders may not have access to certain information they may deem important. We could be an emerging growth company for up to five years, although circumstances could cause us to lose that status earlier, including if the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of any June 30 before that time, in which case we would no longer be an emerging growth company as of the following December 31. We cannot predict whether investors will find our securities less attractive because we rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our securities less attractive as a result of our reliance on these exemptions, the trading prices of our securities may be lower than they otherwise would be, there may be a less active trading market for our securities and the trading prices of our securities may be more volatile. Further, Section 102(b)(1) of the JOBS Act exempts emerging growth companies from being required to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards until private companies (that is, those that have not had a Securities Act registration statement declared effective or do not have a class of securities registered under the Exchange Act) are required to comply with the new or revised financial accounting standards. The JOBS Act provides that a company can elect to opt out of the extended transition period and comply with the requirements that apply to non-emerging growth companies but any such an election to opt out is irrevocable. We have elected not to opt out of such extended transition period which means that when a standard is issued or revised and it has different application dates for public or private companies, we, as an emerging growth company, can adopt the new or revised standard at the time private companies adopt the new or revised standard. This may make comparison of our consolidated financial statements with another public company which is neither an emerging growth company nor an emerging growth company which has opted out of using the extended transition period difficult or impossible because of the potential differences in accounting standards used. Additionally, we are a smaller reporting company as defined in Item 10(f)(1) of Regulation S-K. Smaller reporting companies may take advantage of certain reduced disclosure obligations, including, among other things, providing only two years of audited consolidated financial statements. We will remain a smaller reporting company until the last day of the fiscal year in which (i) the market value of our common stock held by nonaffiliates exceeds $250 million as of the prior June 30 or (ii) our annual revenues exceeded $100 million during such completed fiscal year and the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the prior June 30. To the extent we take advantage of such reduced disclosure obligations, it may also make comparison of our consolidated financial statements with other public companies difficult or impossible. The public warrants and the private placement warrants are accounted for as liabilities and the changes in value of our warrants could have a material effect on our financial results. On April 12, 2021 the SEC released a public statement highlighting the potential accounting implications of certain terms of warrants issued by Special Purpose Acquisition Companies (SPACs) (the Public Statement). The terms described in the Public Statement are common in SPACs and are similar to the terms contained in the warrant agreement governing the public warrants and the private placement warrants. In response to the Public Statement, we reevaluated the accounting treatment of our public warrants and private placement warrants and determined to classify the warrants as derivative liabilities measured at fair value, with changes in fair value each period reported in earnings. As a result, included on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2023 contained were 44 derivative liabilities related to embedded features contained within these warrants. ASC Topic 815, provides for the remeasurement of the fair value of such derivatives at each balance sheet date, with a resulting non-cash gain or loss related to the change in the fair value being recognized in earnings in the statement of operations. As a result of the recurring fair value measurement, our consolidated financial statements and results of operations may fluctuate quarterly based on factors which are outside of our control. Due to the recurring fair value measurement, we expect that we will recognize non-cash gains or losses on the public warrants and the private placement warrants each reporting period and that the amount of such gains or losses could be material. The price of our common stock may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock and our public warrants has fluctuated, and is likely to continue to fluctuate due to a variety of factors, including: the period over which we anticipate our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to fund our operating expenses and capital expenditure requirements and our ability to continue as a going concern; our ability to service and comply with our indebtedness; changes in the industries in which we and our customers operate; variations in our operating performance and the performance of our competitors in general; actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results; publication of research reports by securities analysts about our or our competitors or our industry; the publics reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; our failure or the failure of our competitors to meet securities analysts projections or guidance that our or our competitors may give to the market; changes in our financial, operating or other metrics, regardless of whether we consider those metrics as reflective of the current state or long-term prospects of our business, and how those results compare to securities analyst expectations, including whether those results fail to meet, exceed, or significantly exceed securities analyst expectations; additions and departures of key personnel; changes in laws and regulations affecting our business; commencement of, or involvement in, litigation involving us; changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt including in connection with the exercise by certain affiliated institutional investors of their right to purchase the Additional Secured Convertible Notes; the volume of shares of our common stock available for public sale; and general economic and political conditions such as recessions, interest rates, fuel prices, inflation, foreign currency fluctuations, international tariffs, social, political and economic risks and acts of war or terrorism (including, for example, the war in Israel, and the war in Ukraine and the economic sanctions related thereto). 45 These market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock and our public warrants regardless of our operating performance. Future sales of our common stock either by us or our stockholders could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception in the market that either we or the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. We had outstanding 210,232,762 shares of common stock on March 25, 2025. We have filed a registration statement (the Resale Shelf Registration Statement) which registers the offer and sale from time to time by certain selling stockholders of up to 4,600,827 shares of our common stock. To the extent shares are sold into the market by our stockholders pursuant to the Resale Shelf Registration Statement, under Rule 144 under the Securities Act or otherwise, particularly in substantial quantities, the market price of our common stock could decline. In addition, we have filed the Shelf Registration Statement, which permits us to sell from time-to-time up to $300.0 million of additional shares of our common stock or other securities in one or more offerings. In particular, we may offer and sell up to $75.0 million shares of our common stock from time to time pursuant to the ATM Sales Agreement that we have entered into with Needham. As of the filing date of this Annual Report, we have sold approximately $24.6 million shares of our common stock pursuant to the ATM Sales Agreement. We are not currently eligible to use Form S-3 or make sales under the ATM Sales Agreement as (i) our common stock is not currently listed on a national securities exchange registered under the Exchange Act; and (ii) the aggregate market value of our voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates is below $75 million. If in the future we are again able to make sales under the ATM Sales Agreement, depending on market liquidity at the time, sales of our common stock pursuant to the ATM Sales Agreement, or other sales of our common stock or other securities under the Shelf Registration Statement, may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. To the extent any of our outstanding warrants are exercised, it will increase the number of shares eligible for future resale in the public market and result in dilution to our stockholders. As of December 31, 2024, we have 5,504,118 outstanding warrants to purchase an equal number of shares of common stock. To the extent any of these warrants are exercised, additional shares of our common stock will be issued, which will result in dilution to the holders of our common stock and increase the number of shares eligible for resale in the public market. Sales of substantial numbers of such shares in the public market or the fact that such warrants may be exercised could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. However, there is no guarantee that the public warrants will ever be in the money prior to their expiration, and as such, the public warrants may expire worthless. We may amend the terms of the public warrants and private placement warrants in a manner that may be adverse to holders of public warrants with the approval by the holders of at least 65% of the then outstanding public warrants. As a result, the exercise price of their public warrants could be increased, the exercise period could be shortened and the number of our common stock purchasable upon exercise of a public warrant could be decreased, all without their approval. Our public warrants and private placement warrants were issued in registered form under a warrant agreement between Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as warrant agent, and us. The warrant agreement provides that the terms of the public warrants may be amended without the consent of any holder to cure any ambiguity or correct any defective provision, but requires the approval by the holders of at least 65% of the then outstanding public warrants to make any change that adversely affects the interests of the registered holders of public warrants. Accordingly, we may amend the terms of the public warrants in a manner adverse to a holder if holders of at least 65% of the then outstanding public warrants approve of such amendment. Although our ability to amend the terms of the public warrants with the consent of at least 65% of the then outstanding public warrants is unlimited, examples of 46 such amendments could be amendments to, among other things, increase the exercise price of the warrants, convert the warrants into cash, shorten the exercise period or decrease the number of shares of our common stock purchasable upon exercise of a warrant. We may redeem the unexpired public warrants prior to their exercise at a time that is disadvantageous to them, thereby making their public warrants worthless. We have the ability to redeem outstanding public warrants at any time prior to their expiration, at a price of $0.01 per warrant, provided that the last reported sales price of our common stock equals or exceeds $18.00 per share (as adjusted for share subdivisions, share dividends, rights issuances, subdivisions, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) for any 20 trading days within a 30-trading-day period ending on the third trading day prior to the date we send the notice of redemption to the warrant holders. If and when the public warrants become redeemable by us, we may exercise our redemption right even if we are unable to register or qualify the underlying securities for sale under all applicable state securities laws. Redemption of the outstanding public warrants could force holders to: (i) exercise their warrants and pay the exercise price therefor at a time when it may be disadvantageous for them to do so; (ii) sell their warrants at the then-current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold their warrants; or (iii) accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the outstanding warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of their warrants. In addition, we may redeem the public warrants at any time prior to their expiration at a price of $0.10 per warrant upon a minimum of 30 days prior written notice of redemption provided that holders will be able to exercise their warrants prior to redemption for a number of shares of our common stock determined based on the redemption date and the fair market value of our common stock. The value received upon exercise of the public warrants (1) may be less than the value the holders would have received if they had exercised their warrants at a later time where the underlying share price is higher and (2) may not compensate the holders for the value of the warrants, including because the number of shares of common stock received is capped at 0.365 shares of common stock per warrant (subject to adjustment) irrespective of the remaining life of the warrants. None of the private placement warrants will be redeemable by us, subject to certain circumstances, so long as they are held by the Sponsor or its permitted transferees. A market for our securities may not continue, which would adversely affect the liquidity and price of our securities. Our common stock is currently quoted on the OTC Pink, an inter-dealer electronic quotation and trading system for equity securities. Quotation of our common stock on OTC Pink may limit the liquidity and price of our common stock more than if our common stock were quoted or listed on a national securities exchange. Some investors may perceive our common stock to be less attractive because it is traded in the over-the-counter market. In addition, as an OTC Pink company, we do not attract the extensive analyst coverage that accompanies companies listed on national securities exchanges. Further, institutional and other investors may have investment guidelines that restrict or prohibit investing in securities traded on OTC Pink. These factors may have an adverse impact on the trading and price of our common stock. There can be no assurance that a more active trading market for our common stock will develop or be sustained if it does develop. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control. Reports published by analysts, including projections in those reports that differ from our actual results, could adversely affect the price and trading volume of our common stock. Securities research analysts may establish and publish their own periodic projections for us. These projections may vary widely and may not accurately predict the results we actually achieve. Our share price may decline if our actual results do not match the projections of these securities research analysts. Similarly, if one or more of the analysts who write reports on us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our share price could decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, our share price or trading volume could decline. While we expect research analyst coverage of our company, if no analysts commence coverage of us, the market price and volume for our shares of common stock could be adversely affected. 47 We are subject to changing law and regulations regarding regulatory matters, corporate governance and public disclosure will continue to increase our costs and the risk of non-compliance. We are subject to rules and regulations by various governing bodies, including, for example, the SEC, which are charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded, and to new and evolving regulatory measures under applicable law. Our efforts to comply with new and changing laws and regulations have resulted in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention. Moreover, because these laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance becomes available. This evolution may result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and additional costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to our disclosure and governance practices. If we fail to address and comply with these regulations and any subsequent changes, we may be subject to penalty and our business may be harmed. Delaware law and our Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws contain certain provisions, including anti-takeover provisions, that limit the ability of stockholders to take certain actions and could delay or discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable. Our Certificate of Incorporation, our Amended and Restated Bylaws and the Delaware General Corporation Law (the "DGCL"), contain provisions that could have the effect of rendering more difficult, delaying, or preventing an acquisition deemed undesirable by the Board and therefore depress the trading price of our common stock. These provisions also could make it difficult for stockholders to take certain actions, including electing directors who are not nominated by the current members of the Board or taking other corporate actions, including effecting changes in our management. Among other things, our Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws include provisions regarding: the ability of the Board to issue shares of preferred stock, including blank check preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer; the limitation of the liability of, and the indemnification of, our directors and officers; a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of stockholders after such date and could delay the ability of stockholders to force consideration of a stockholder proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by a majority of the entire Board, which could delay the ability of stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of board of directors and stockholder meetings; the ability of the Board to amend the bylaws, which may allow the Board to take additional actions to prevent an unsolicited takeover and inhibit the ability of an acquirer to amend the bylaws to facilitate an unsolicited takeover attempt; and advance notice procedures with which stockholders must comply to nominate candidates to the Board or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders meeting, which could preclude stockholders from bringing matters before annual or special meetings of stockholders and delay changes in the Board, and also may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirers own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. These provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in the Board or management. 48 Our Certificate of Incorporation and our Amended and Restated Bylaws designate a state or federal court located within the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, stockholders, employees or agents. Our Certificate of Incorporation and our Amended and Restated Bylaws provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware shall be the sole and exclusive forum for state law claims for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any director, officer or other employee of our company to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL or our Certificate of Incorporation or our Amended and Restated Bylaws, (iv) any action to interpret, apply, enforce or determine the validity of our Certificate of Incorporation or our Amended and Restated Bylaws or (v) any action asserting a claim against us governed by the internal affairs doctrine. The forgoing provisions will not apply to any claims arising under the Exchange Act or the Securities Act and, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the federal district courts of the United States will be the sole and exclusive forum for resolving any action asserting a claim arising under the Securities Act. These provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws may limit a stockholders ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or any of our directors, officers, or other employees, which may discourage lawsuits with respect to such claims. While Delaware courts have determined these types of provisions to be facially valid, there is uncertainty as to whether a court would enforce such provisions, and the enforceability of similar provisions in other companies charter documents has been challenged in legal proceedings. It is possible that a court could find these types of provisions to be inapplicable or unenforceable, and if a court were to find the provisions contained in our Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. The warrant agreement governing the public warrants and the private placement warrants designates the courts of the State of New York or the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by holders of our public warrants, which could limit the ability of warrant holders to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with our company. The warrant agreement governing the public warrants and the private placement warrants provides that, subject to applicable law, (i) any action, proceeding or claim against us arising out of or relating in any way to the warrant agreement, including under the Securities Act, will be brought and enforced in the courts of the State of New York or the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York and (ii) that we irrevocably submit to such jurisdiction, which jurisdiction will be the exclusive forum for any such action, proceeding or claim. We will waive any objection to such exclusive jurisdiction and that such courts represent an inconvenient forum. Notwithstanding the foregoing, these provisions of the warrant agreement do not apply to suits brought to enforce any liability or duty created by the Exchange Act or any other claim for which the federal district courts of the United States are the sole and exclusive forum. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in any of our public warrants will be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to the forum provisions in our warrant agreement. If any action, the subject matter of which is within the scope of the forum provisions of the warrant agreement, is filed in a court other than a court of the State of New York or the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York (a foreign action) in the name of any holder of our public warrants, such holder will be deemed to have consented to (x) the personal jurisdiction of the state and federal courts located in the State of New York in connection with any action brought in any such court to enforce the forum provisions (an enforcement action) and (y) having service of process made upon such warrant holder in any such enforcement action by service upon such warrant holders counsel in the foreign action as agent for such warrant holder. 49 This choice-of-forum provision may limit a warrant holders ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with our company, which may discourage such lawsuits. Alternatively, if a court were to find this provision of our warrant agreement inapplicable or unenforceable with respect to one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and result in a diversion of the time and resources of our management and Board of Directors. Our business and operations could be negatively affected if we become subject to any securities litigation or shareholder activism, which could cause us to incur significant expense, hinder execution of business and growth strategy and impact our stock price. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a companys securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Shareholder activism, which could take many forms or arise in a variety of situations, has been increasing recently. Volatility in the stock price of our common stock or other reasons may in the future cause it to become the target of securities litigation or shareholder activism. Securities litigation and shareholder activism, including potential proxy contests, could result in substantial costs and divert managements and Board of Directors attention and resources from our business. Additionally, such securities litigation and shareholder activism could give rise to perceived uncertainties as to our future, adversely affect our relationships with service providers and make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel. Also, we may be required to incur significant legal fees and other expenses related to any securities litigation and activist shareholder matters. Further, our stock price could be subject to significant fluctuation or otherwise be adversely affected by the events, risks and uncertainties of any securities litigation and shareholder activism. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. Item 1C. Cybersecurity. We recognize the critical importance of maintaining the trust and confidence of all our stakeholders. Our Board is actively involved in oversight of our risk management program, and cybersecurity represents an important component of our overall approach to risk management. Our cybersecurity policies, standards, processes, and practices are fully integrated into our risk management program and are based on recognized frameworks established by the National Institute of Standards and Technology, the International Organization for Standardization and other applicable industry standards. In general, we seek to address cybersecurity risks through a comprehensive, cross-functional approach that is focused on preserving the confidentiality, security and availability of the information that we collect and store by identifying, preventing and mitigating cybersecurity threats and effectively responding to cybersecurity incidents when they occur. Risk Management and Strategy As one of the critical elements of our overall risk management approach, our cybersecurity program is focused on the following key areas: Governance:The Boards oversight of cybersecurity risk management is supported by the Audit Committee of the Board, which receives, at a minimum, quarterly reports and presentations from our risk management function, our Information Technology department and other members of management. The Board and Audit Committee also receive prompt and timely information regarding material cybersecurity incidents as described below. Collaborative Approach: We have implemented a comprehensive, cross-functional approach to identifying, preventing, and mitigating cybersecurity threats and incidents, while also executing