Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section and other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this Form 10-K) contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on the current beliefs and expectations of our management with respect to future events and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Such statements can be identified by the use of words such as future, anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, intends, plans, predicts, will, would, could, continue, can, may and similar terms. Actual results could differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements, and reported results should not be considered an indication of future performance. Certain factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors of this Form 10-K, which are incorporated herein by reference. We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that may arise after the date of the forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law. PART I Item 1. Business We deliver information technology (IT) solutions and services to help healthcare organizations around the world achieve optimal clinical, financial and operational results. Our solutions and services are sold to: Physician practices and specialty groups Retail pharmacies Hospitals Pharmacy benefit managers Governments and militaries Insurance companies Health systems Employer wellness clinics Health plans Post-acute organizations Life-sciences companies Consumers Retail clinics Lab companies Surgery centers Urgent care facilities Our portfolio, which we believe offers some of the most comprehensive solutions in our industry today, helps clients advance the quality and efficiency of healthcare by providing electronic health records (EHR), financial management, population health management, precision medicine and consumer solutions. Built on an open integrated platform, our solutions enable users to streamline workflows, leverage functionality from other software vendors and exchange data. The Allscripts Developer Program focuses on nurturing partnerships with other developers to help clients optimize the value of their Allscripts investment. Recent Business Developments On October 13, 2020, Allscripts announced a definitive agreement to sell its CarePort Health business (CarePort) to WellSky Corp., in exchange for $1.35 billion. CarePort solutions assist hundreds of hospitals and thousands of post-acute care providers to efficiently coordinate and transition patients through different settings of care. The transaction closed on December 31, 2020. Prior to the sale, CarePort was part of the Data, Analytics and Care Coordination reportable segment. 3 On July 30, 2020, we announced a definitive agreement to sell the EPSi TM business (EPSi), a leading provider of financial decision support and planning tools for hospitals and health systems, to Strata Decision Technology, in exchange for $365 million. The transaction closed on October 15, 2020. Prior to the sale, EPSi was part of the Unallocated category as it did not meet the requirements to be a reportable segment nor the criteria to be aggregated into our two reportable segments. As a result of each sale, and s ince both businesses were part of the same strategic initiative, were sold within the same period and the combined sale of EPSi and CarePort represents a strategic shift that had a major effect on our operations and financial results, these businesses are now reported together as discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018. On July 13, 2020, Allscripts and Microsoft jointly announced the extension of their long-standing strategic alliance to enable the expanded development and delivery of cloud-based health IT solutions. The five-year extension will support Allscripts cloud-based Sunrise TM electronic health record, making Microsoft the cloud provider for the solution and opening up co-innovation opportunities to help transform healthcare with smarter, more scalable technology. On January 13, 2020, we announced that we extended our engagement with our largest customer, Northwell Health, which is New Yorks largest health system. Our managed service business supports the organizations infrastructure as well as our solutions and third-party applications. We also provide comprehensive service desk support and application management services, as well as project delivery, strategic and leadership-planning activities. Corporate Information Founded in 1986, Allscripts is incorporated in Delaware with principal executive offices located at 222 Merchandise Mart Plaza, Suite 2024, Chicago, Illinois 60654. Our principal website is www.allscripts.com. The contents of this website are not incorporated into this filing. Furthermore, our references to the URLs for this website are intended to be inactive textual references only. Solutions Our portfolio addresses a range of healthcare industry needs, with the goal of enabling smarter care delivered with greater precision, for healthier communities. Across care settings, our solutions enable clinical, financial and operational efficiencies while helping patients deepen their engagement in their own care. Our principal solutions consist of the following: Electronic Health Records Allscripts offers a suite of EHRs for hospitals and health systems, as well as community and physician practices. Built on an open platform with advanced clinical decision support, our EHRs provide analysis and insights. Our EHR solutions deliver a single patient record, workflows and consolidated analytics. Our innovative solutions help deliver improved patient care and outcomes. Our EHR solutions consist of the following: Sunrise is a comprehensive platform of health for hospitals and health systems. Sunrise TM supports hospitals and health systems by delivering a single patient record that supports inpatient and outpatient care and provides advanced decision guidance and supportive workflows for clinicians. Sunrise provides mobile support for clinicians, delivering the power of innovative healthcare IT where they are. The Sunrise TM platform of health includes: Acute care Oncology care Ambulatory care Rehabilitation care Emergency care Financial management solutions Mobility solutions Enterprise-wide registration and scheduling solutions Pharmacy Health information management and abstracting solutions Radiology and enterprise wide viewer Allscripts Go (integrated patient ride-share, transportation solution) Surgical care Charge Logic (charge optimization for outpatient facilities) Tissue management Supply chain and point-of-use supply solutions Anesthesia information management Clinical performance management analytics Laboratory information management Surgical analytics, surgeon access and OR optimization solutions Blood bank solutions Patient Flow (patient throughput solution and census logic analytics) Wound care Infusion analytics Paragon is an integrated clinical, financial and administrative EHR solution tailored for community hospitals and health systems. The solution supports the full scope of care delivery and business processes, from patient access management and accounting through clinical assessment, documentation and treatment. 4 Allscripts TouchWorks EHR is an EHR solution for larger single and multispecialty practices and is built on an open platform that brings data sources together. This open platform feature, along with the ability to customize workflows, enables clinical staff to effectively coordinate and deliver both primary and specialized care. Functionality is also offered on mobile devices. Allscripts Professional EHR is an EHR solution for small- to mid-size physician practices. Allscripts Professional EHR TM works in accountable care organizations (ACOs), patient-centered medical homes and Federally Qualified Health Centers. The solutions mobile offering, Allscripts Professional EHR TM Mobile, provides on-the-go access to Allscripts Professional EHR TM , driving greater efficiency and improved patient care. Practice Fusion is a cloud-based EHR and is an intuitive and easy-to-use solution for clinicians in small and independent practices. The solution helps drive operational efficiencies with smart charting that adapts to each practices specific needs and enables patients to receive medications more quickly. Practice Fusion also reduces administrative burdens by helping staff simplify front-office tasks and improve billing efficiency. BOSSnet is an electronic document management solution that digitizes paper for our EHR customers and serves as a digital health record solution for emerging markets with low digital maturity. The solution currently has a large customer base in Australia and is now expanding across other geographies. Payer and Life Sciences Veradigm is the Allscripts payer and life science business unit which is an integrated data systems and services business that combines data-driven clinical insights with actionable tools that reside in clinical workflow. Veradigm TM provides solutions to their client base which help key healthcare stakeholders improve the quality, efficiency and value of healthcare delivery - including biopharma, health plans, healthcare providers, health technology partners, and most importantly, the patients they serve. Consumer Solutions FollowMyHealth is a comprehensive patient engagement platform with options for telehealth and remote patient monitoring. This patient engagement platform serves as the foundation for emerging consumer health initiatives, including automated secure messaging. Financial Management Allscripts financial solutions support revenue cycle, claims management, budgeting and analytic functions for healthcare organizations. These tools can help change clinician behavior to improve patient flow, increase quality, advance outcomes, optimize referral networks, decrease leakage and reduce costs. Plus, our solutions allow our clients to extract the data needed to support new reimbursement models. Offerings include: Sunrise Financial Manager Sunrise Abstracting STAR Allscripts Revenue Cycle Management Services Population Health Management Allscripts provides robust, community-connected population health solutions that enable and deliver care coordination, connectivity, data aggregation and analytics. Allscripts care coordination solutions include Allscripts Care Director, dbMotion and chronic care management services. Our connectivity and data aggregation solutions include the dbMotion Solution and dbMotion Community powered by OnePartner. Allscripts Clinical Performance Management enables healthcare organizations to measure performance and outcomes, analyze utilization, manage risk, reduce cost and improve quality across the continuum of care. Services In addition to our solutions, Allscripts offers customizable professional and managed service offerings. From hosting, consulting, optimization and managed IT services to revenue cycle services for practices, Allscripts partners with clients to meet their goals. 5 Our Strategy Our strategy is built upon our vision of enabling smarter care at virtually every point of the healthcare continuum. Given the breadth of our portfolio and global client base, we are well positioned to connect providers to patients and payers across all healthcare settings. Smarter care is a strategic imperative for healthcare organizations globally and requires a balance between managing cost while maintaining the highest quality of care. Our solutions are positioned to facilitate the transformation in healthcare delivery by connecting communities, driving interoperability, providing data analytics, delivering consumer engagement features and assisting clients manage the evolution toward value-based care. These key strategic areas all help healthcare providers better manage populations of patients, especially those with costly chronic conditions, such as diabetes, asthma and heart disease, to help bring down the cost of care and improve patient outcomes. Connecting communities Our care coordination solutions improve safety and quality as a patient transitions from one care setting to another. To do so, care coordination solutions help build assessments, monitor results, track outcomes and make modifications in a patients care plan. Healthcare is a group effort and having full visibility into a patients care plan is critical. Access to comprehensive patient information is key, and our community solutions help create an organized, longitudinal patient record spanning all points of care. Interoperability We provide clients a wide array of interoperability tools to support their need and desire to connect to numerous stakeholders in the industry, including other healthcare providers, labs, imaging facilities, public health entities and patients, as well as other third-party technology providers. Allscripts open platform is proven, scalable and user-friendly, and connects both clinical and financial data across every setting. We also offer Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) based on the Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources. With this platform, clients can connect to any certified application or device, which saves time and money and gives clients full access to a variety of innovative solutions. Data analytics Allscripts understands that healthcare organizations need to analyze dependencies, trends and patterns so that they can develop business and clinical intelligence. Our analytics offerings help organizations better manage their patient populations by using clean data for better decisions at the point of care. Insights and analytics serve as the foundation for informed analysis and effective planning. Consumer engagement Our patient engagement software helps healthcare organizations achieve better outcomes, reduce emergency room visits and decrease hospitalizations. Our solutions also integrate with health IT offerings across an organization, regardless of a providers chosen vendor. With a patient engagement platform, individuals and their families have the opportunity to become active members of their care team, which improves results. Payer and life sciences Through Veradigm, we are positioned to help clients manage the evolution toward value-based care, facilitate patient medication access and affordability and provide new, efficient operating models for generating the real-world evidence necessary to accelerate the development of new therapies and to enhance the value of existing ones. Material Government Regulations Our business operations are worldwide and are subject to various federal, state, local, and foreign laws, and our products and services are governed by a number of rules and regulations. Although there is no assurance that existing or future government laws, rules and other regulations applicable to our operations, products or services will not have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, results of operations and competitive position, we do not currently anticipate materially increased expenditures in response to government regulations or future material impacts to our results or competitiveness. Nonetheless, as discussed below, healthcare laws and global trade regulations have materially impacted and could continue to materially impact our business and operations. For a discussion of the risks associated with government regulations that may materially impact us, please see the section entitled "Risk Factors" in Item 1A. Healthcare IT Industry The healthcare IT industry in which we operate is highly regulated, and the services we provide are subject to a complex set of healthcare laws and regulations, including, among others, the 21st Century Cures Act (the Cures Act), the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act (MACRA), the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH), the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), regulations issued by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), a number of fraud and abuse laws, including the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and the False Claims Act, and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (as amended, the PPACA), as discussed below. In addition, the healthcare IT industry is subject to changing political, legislative, regulatory and other industry standards, which create both significant opportunities as well as certain challenges. These include: HITECH: In 2009, the United States federal government enacted HITECH, which authorized the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC) to establish the functionality that EHR products must meet in order for our technologies to be considered certified and for our customers to qualify for participation in various government incentive programs. 6 Provider Reimbursement : In recent years, there have been significant changes to provider payment models by the United States federal government, moving toward a value-based care model similar to those being adopted by commercial payers and state governments. This leads to increasing pressure on healthcare organizations to reduce costs and increase demonstration of quality care, replacing fee-for-service models in part by expanding advanced payment models. Such changes to provider payment models could further encourage the adoption of healthcare IT as a means of improving quality of patient care through increased efficiency, care coordination, and improved access to complete medical documentation. o The passage of MACRA in 2015 codified the creation of new payment models, such as Accountable Care Organizations and the Quality Payment Program, that have significantly expanded and will continue to significantly expand the number of ambulatory healthcare professionals delivering care under payment programs that are driven by quality measurement. In 2016, CMS issued preliminary regulations for the Quality Payment Program (QPP), and many of our clients are also involved with the Comprehensive Primary Care Plus program, which is working toward similar goals by emphasizing the role of the primary care provider. Other important drivers of healthcare IT adoption in the primary care space are the Patient Centered Medical Home program, a voluntary program in which many of our clients participate that has a strong emphasis on quality measurement and patient engagement. Even where some of these programs will likely be adjusted in part by HHS under the new Biden Administration, significant levels of reimbursements will still require providers to capture, communicate, measure and share outcomes through technology solutions such as ours, given that those requirements are bound in federal statute. PPACA: PPACA, which was signed into law in 2010, has impacted us and our clients. While at this time repeal of the law is unlikely, particularly under the new Biden Administration, legal challenges continue to advance through the justice system, including an impending ruling from the Supreme Court. Many components of the law, including those which have had a positive effect on our business by requiring the expanded use of health IT products, are expected to remain in effect, as they are not subject to repeal or modification under any currently pending legislation. Certain provisions of PPACA, such as those mandating reductions in reimbursement for certain types of providers or decreasing the number of covered lives in the United States or the depth of insurance coverage available to patients, may have a negative effect on our sales by reducing the resources available to our current and prospective clients to purchase our products. Cures Act : In late 2016, Congress passed the Cures Act, a sweeping piece of legislation attempting to modernize many areas of the healthcare industry. Sections of the law addressing interoperability also codified the concept of information blocking, requiring a new regulatory structure to respond to concerns that actors in the healthcare industry intentionally block the exchange of information between various stakeholders. The Cures Act authorized penalties for any such action for health IT developers and health information exchange entities, as well as virtually every type of provider organization that Allscripts serves. We will respond to the requirements of the final associated regulation on Interoperability, Information Exchange and Certification released by ONC in March 2020 as thoroughly as possible. The ONC regulation, which involves complex and specific requirements, requires that we evaluate changes to business processes related to requests for the access, exchange or use of Electronic Health Information. Our Company has been and remains committed to open and efficient information exchange and we will continue to support clients in their efforts to exchange health data and meet all new associated certification requirements. Privacy and Health Data: Allscripts is subject to numerous privacy and security laws and regulations, including HIPAA and the FTC Act. HIPAA : HIPAA and its implementing regulations contain substantial restrictions and requirements with respect to the use and disclosure of individuals protected health information. As part of the operation of our business, Allscripts, and our subcontractors may have access to, or our clients may provide to us, individually identifiable health information related to the treatment, payment and operations of providers practices. In the United States, government and industry legislation and rulemaking, especially HIPAA, HITECH and standards and requirements published by industry groups such as the Joint Commission, require the use of standard transactions, standard identifiers, security and other standards and requirements for the transmission of certain electronic health information. HIPAA applies to Covered Entities, such as certain healthcare providers, health plans, and healthcare clearinghouses, as well as business associates that performed functions on behalf of or provided services to Covered Entities. We consider ourselves a Covered Entity due to our acting as a healthcare clearinghouse through our provision of Allscripts Payerpath due to its filing of electronic healthcare claims on behalf of healthcare providers that are subject to HIPAA and HITECH. In addition, as a result of our dealings with certain clients and others in the healthcare industry that may be considered Covered Entities under or otherwise subject to the requirements of HIPAA, we are, in some circumstances, considered a business associate under HIPAA. As a business associate, we are subject to the HIPAA requirements relating to the privacy and security of protected health information. Among other things, HIPAA requires business associates to (i) maintain physical, technical and administrative safeguards to prevent protected health information from misuse, (ii) report 7 security incidents and other inappropriate uses or disclosures of the information, including to individuals and governmental authorities, and (iii) assist Covered Entities from which we obtain health information with certain of their duties under HIPAA. We have policies and procedures that we believe comply with federal and state confidentiality requirements for the handling of protected health information (PHI) that we receive and with our obligations under Business Associate Agreements . The principal effects of HIPAA are, first, to require that our systems be capable of being operated by us and our clients in a manner that is compliant with the Transaction, Security and Privacy Standards mandated by HIPAA, and second, to comply with HIPAA when it directly applies to us. We have policies and safeguards in place intended to protect health information as required by HIPAA and have processes in place to assist us in complying with applicable laws and regulations regarding the protection of this data and responding to any security incidents. The Office of Civil Rights has proposed updates and changes to HIPAA-related regulations, and Allscripts plans to adjust our processes and procedures as necessary, as new rules are finalized. o FTC Act : Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act (the FTC Act) prohibits unfair methods of competition and unfair or deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce. The FTC Act, and the rules promulgated thereunder, may be applicable to health information that is held in a capacity that does not implicate HIPAA. Therefore, for certain activities and applications, we employ processes designed to comply with the FTC Act. o 42 CFR Part 2: The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration is also expected to promulgate regulations amending requirements and restrictions related specifically to the storage and exchange of behavioral health- and substance use disorder-related patient data, working to ease integration between such sensitive health data and the patients larger health record. Similarly, we will adjust policies and procedures as required by any final regulation as released. Fraud and Abuse Laws: The healthcare industry is subject to laws and regulations on fraud and abuse that, among other things, prohibit the direct or indirect payment or receipt of any remuneration for patient referrals, or for the purchase or order, or arranging for or recommending referrals or purchases, of any item or service paid for in whole or in part by these federal or state healthcare programs. Federal enforcement personnel have substantial funding, powers and remedies to pursue suspected or perceived fraud and abuse. Moreover, both federal and state laws forbid bribery and similar behavior. Federal Anti-Kickback Statute: The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits any person or entity from offering, paying, soliciting or receiving anything of value, directly or indirectly, for the referral of patients covered by Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs or the leasing, purchasing, ordering or arranging for or recommending the lease, purchase or order of any item, good, facility or services covered by these programs. Courts have interpreted the law to provide that a financial arrangement may violate this law if any one of the purposes of an arrangement is to encourage patient referrals or other federal healthcare program business, regardless of whether there are other legitimate purposes for the arrangement. There are several limited exclusions known as safe harbors that may protect some arrangements from enforcement penalties. Penalties for federal Anti-Kickback Statute violations can be severe, and include imprisonment, criminal fines, civil money penalties with triple damages (when the False Claims Act is implicated) and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs. Many states have adopted laws similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, some of which apply to the referral of patients for healthcare items or services reimbursed by any source, not only the Medicare and Medicaid programs. HHS finalized changes to the latest regulations stemming from the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and Stark Law in late 2020, continuing to make further allowances for exclusions associated with the purchase of health information technology. o False Claims Act: The federal False Claims Act prohibits anyone from, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, for payment to federal programs (including Medicare and Medicaid) claims for items or services that are false or fraudulent. Although we do not submit claims directly to payors, Allscripts could be held liable under the False Claims Act if we are deemed to cause the submission of false or fraudulent claims by, for example, providing inaccurate billing or coding information to customers through our revenue cycle/claims management services, or if our EHR products are found to have caused providers to have inaccurately attested to incentive or reimbursement program criteria. 8 We believe that these and other changes in laws and regulations, along with increasing pressure from private payers to move providers to quality-based payment programs and market opportunities to maximize the data that is increasingly being created and captured through the care process, will continue to drive adoption of healthcare IT products and services such as ours. With the incoming Biden Administration, we anticipate continued pressure through a variety of administrative and regulatory levers to increase interoperability in the industry across a variety of stakeholders, including implementing regulations that require robust, sophisticated health technology. For example, although many large physician groups have already purchased EHR technology, we expect those groups may choose to replace their older EHR technology to comply with future Quality Payment Program and Accountable Care Organization requirements and to add new features and functionality. Further, opportunities for healthcare provider organizations to expand their care coordination efforts in order to successfully comply with new payment programs or to add software specific to the precision medicine expansion, as outlined in the Cures Act, could lead to additional demand for our solutions . Global Trade As a global company, the import and export of our products and services are subject to laws and regulations including international treaties, U.S. export controls and sanctions laws, customs regulations, and local trade rules around the world. Such laws, rules and regulations may delay the introduction of some of our products or impact our competitiveness through restricting our ability to do business in certain places or with certain entities and individuals, or requiring compliance with disparate local laws concerning transfer and disclosure of health data and laws concerning controlled technology or source code. The consequences of any failure to comply with domestic and foreign trade regulations could limit our ability to conduct business globally. Business Organization We derive our revenues primarily from sales of our proprietary software (either as a direct license sale or under a subscription delivery model), which also serves as the basis for our recurring service contracts for software support and maintenance and certain transaction-related services. In addition, we provide various other client services, including installation, and managed services such as outsourcing, private cloud hosting and revenue cycle management. During 2020, we realigned our reporting structure to organize the Company around strategic business units to maximize delivery of client commitments, operational effectiveness and competitiveness. Refer to Note 19, Business Segments, to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10-K for detailed discussion about these changes. Our two reportable segments are as follows: The Core Clinical and Financial Solutions reportable segment derives its revenue from the sale of software applications for patient engagement, integrated clinical and financial management solutions, which primarily include EHR-related software, financial and practice management software, related installation, support and maintenance, outsourcing, private cloud hosting and revenue cycle management. The Data, Analytics and Care Coordination reportable segment derives its revenue from the sale of practice reimbursement and payer and life sciences solutions, which are mainly targeted at physician practices, payers, life sciences companies and other key healthcare stakeholders. These solutions enable clients to transition, analyze and coordinate care and improve the quality, efficiency and value of healthcare delivery across the entire care community. The results of operations related to CarePort, which was sold on December 31, 2020, is presented throughout our financial statements as discontinued operations. Prior to the sale, CarePort was included in the Data, Analytics and Care Coordination reportable segment. Refer to Note 18, Discontinued Operations to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10-K. Clients Our clients in the Core Clinical and Financial Solutions segment include physician practices and hospitals, which include some of the most prestigious medical groups and hospitals in the United States and internationally and often serve as reference sources for prospective clients that are interested in purchasing our solutions. Our clients in the Data, Analytics and Care Coordination segment include coordinated community care organizations, health plans and payors, life science companies and physician practices. For the year ended December 31, 2020, we had one client that accounted for 12% of our revenue. No other single client accounted for more than 10% of our revenue in the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018. Research and Development Rapid innovation characterizes the healthcare IT industry. We believe our ability to compete successfully depends heavily on our ability to ensure a continual and timely flow of competitive products, services and technologies to the markets in which we operate. 9 Because of this, we continue to invest into our research and development efforts with a focus on growth opportunities . These efforts include developing new solutions as well as new features and enhancements to our existing solutions, which we believe will ensure that our solutions comply with continually evolving regulatory requirements and create additional opportunities to connect our systems to the healthcare community. Competition The markets for our solutions and services are highly competitive and are characterized by rapidly evolving technology and solution standards and user needs, as well as frequent introduction of new solutions and services. Some of our competitors may be more established, benefit from greater name recognition, and have substantially greater financial, technical, and marketing resources than we do. We compete primarily with numerous types of organizations, including developers of revenue cycle and practice management software and services, large system integrators, IT service providers, ambulatory and acute care EHR solutions, population health management and value-based care technologies, analytics systems, care management solutions and post-acute solutions. We generally compete on the basis of several factors, including breadth and depth of services (including our open architecture and the level of solution integration across care settings), integrated platform, regulatory compliance, reputation, reliability, accuracy, security, client service, total cost of ownership, innovation and industry acceptance, expertise and experience. We believe we compete favorably on these metrics and are one of the leading companies offering a suite of healthcare IT solutions. Moreover, we expect that competition will continue to increase as a result of consolidation in both the IT and healthcare industries. If one or more of our competitors or potential competitors were to merge or partner with another of our competitors, the change in the competitive landscape could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. Our principal existing competitors in these markets include, but are not limited to (in alphabetical order) AdvancedMD, athenahealth Inc., Availity, Cerner Corporation, Change Healthcare, CPSI (Computer Programs and Systems Inc.), CureMD Healthcare, eClinicalWorks, Enli Health Intelligence, Epic Systems Corporation, Evolent Health, Greenway Medical Technologies, Harris Healthcare, Healthagen, Health Catalyst, IBM Watson Health, Inovalon, IQVIA, Kareo, The Lash Group, Inc., MEDHOST, Inc., Meditech (Medical Information Technology, Inc.), Nextgen, nThrive, Optum, Philips Healthcare, Premier Inc., Science 37, T-System, The TriZetto Group, Inc. (a division of Cognizant Technology Solutions, Inc.), Waystar and Wellsoft Corporation. Backlog We had a contract backlog of $4.1 billion as of both December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Contract backlog represents the value of bookings and support and maintenance contracts that have not yet been recognized as revenue. Bookings reflect the value of executed contracts for software, hardware, other client services, private-cloud hosting, outsourcing and subscription-based services. Total contract backlog can fluctuate between periods based on the level of revenue and bookings as well as the timing and mix of renewal activity and periodic revalidations. We estimate that approximately 35% of our aggregate contract backlog as of December 31, 2020 will be recognized as revenue during 2021. Intellectual Property We rely on a combination of trademark, copyright, trade secret and patent laws in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. We also enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements with our employees, consultants and other third parties and control access to software, documentation and other proprietary information. Many of our products include intellectual property obtained from third parties. For example: Many of our products are built on technology provided by Microsoft Corporation, such as the Microsoft SQL Server information platform, the Microsoft .NET Framework and the Microsoft Azure cloud platform. We license content from companies such as OptumInsight, 3M Health Information Systems, Wolters Kluwer Health, Elsevier, IMO and Clinical Architecture, which we incorporate or use in certain solutions. It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of our products and services. While we have generally been able to obtain licenses on commercially reasonable terms in the past, there is no guarantee that we can obtain such licenses in the future on reasonable terms or at all. Because of continuous healthcare IT innovation, current extensive patent coverage and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is possible that certain components of our solutions may unknowingly infringe upon an existing patent or other intellectual property rights of others. Occasionally, we have been notified that we may be infringing certain patent or other intellectual property rights of third parties. While the outcome of any litigation or dispute is uncertain, we do not believe that the resolution any of these infringement notices will have a material adverse impact on our business. 10 Geographic Information Historically, the majority of our clients and revenue have been associated with North America, where we have clients in the United States and Canada. While we remain focused on the North American market, which we expect will continue to drive our revenue in the future, we believe that there are opportunities for us globally as other countries face similar challenges of controlling healthcare costs while improving the quality and efficiency of healthcare delivery. As a result, we have increased our efforts to selectively expand the sales of many of our solutions outside of North America, primarily in the United Kingdom, the Middle East, Asia and Australia. Human Capital We track and report internally on key talent metrics including workforce demographics, talent pipeline, diversity data and engagement of our employees. As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately 8,400 employees, including approximately 58.9% in the United States, 36.4% in India, 1.4% in Canada, 1.3% in Israel, and 2.0% in other international countries. We also engage contractors and consultants. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement or are represented by a labor union. Our employees are a significant asset and we recognize that attracting, motivating and retaining talent at all levels is vital to continuing our success. We aim to create an inclusive, respectful and open work environment and culture comprising talented employees of diverse backgrounds, in which our employees can grow and advance their careers, with the overall goal of developing, expanding and retaining our workforce to support our business. We strive to sustain a work environment in which each employees perspective, background, skills and abilities are valued in support of our mission to create solutions that enable smarter care for healthier patients, populations and communities. We invest in our employees through high-quality benefits and various health and wellness initiatives, and offer competitive compensation packages. The health and safety of our employees is key to our success. For Allscripts, many of our employees are client facing and participate in the day to day operations of hospitals and medical centers. In response to the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, we moved quickly to make informed decisions to support the health and safety of our employees. We responded with the following actions: (i) immediately transitioning employees in all of our global offices to a remote work environment, with essential (IT/Systems) employees working staggered shifts to maintain social distance; (ii) implementing a COVID-19 self-reporting process that allowed us to quickly provide assistance to COVID-19-impacted employees and their families; (iii) updating our corporate intranet to prominently inform employees of COVID-19 protocol and remind them to incorporate new hygiene habits into their days; (iv) partnering with our Managed Services sites to ensure our front-line employees were part of their vaccination programs; (v) providing letters to our employees that regularly visit clients and interact with site staff and patients to support their ability to obtain timely vaccinations; and (vi) reminding employees of the CMD (Clean, Mask, Distance) protocols in every communication from our Chief Executive Officer. Fostering inclusivity and equity in our workforce is also vital to our success. Allscripts Cabinet, comprised of our Chief Executive Officers direct staff, is made up of five men and five women. Globally, our population of employees at the level of Director and above is 66% male and 34% female. We have established Allscripts Women Engagement, which assists women in managing their careers and driving professional development, all while creating professional development opportunities for women to excel in their careers and in our Company. We have a nine block leadership development process in place that helps us to identify our high potential talent each year. This gives us a view to succession planning for promotions in the organization. Our strategy incorporates thoughtful review around ensuring we have a lens of diversity on identifying high potential talent in the organization. With a focus on development, we were able to fill 59% of our management openings through internal promotion during 2020, with a fill rate of 71% during the last half of the year. Also during 2020, we launched a Champions Network of employees at all levels across our global team that will be working together to enhance our diversity and inclusion initiatives and to ensure that our goals, vision and mission result in a workplace that celebrates each unique individual. We regularly solicit feedback through surveys and other mechanisms to gain insights into workplace engagement, what motivates employees to do their best work and overall employee satisfaction. Employees are provided opportunities to raise suggestions and collaborate with leadership to implement actions for ongoing improvements. We use the results of the surveys to influence our people strategy and policies. In 2020, our employee experience framework utilized several listening opportunities to hear and learn from employees. The three primary tools used are: a bi-annual company-wide Engagement survey, Lifecycle surveys (new hire and exit surveys) and Learning & Development surveys. Our Engagement Survey puts emphasis on measuring confidence in leadership, perceived care for employees, consistency in how policies are applied, and effectiveness of communication efforts. Our Chief Executive Officer reviews overall Company results with employees and leaders at all levels and engages in actions that are aimed at removing barriers to engagement. Based on employee feedback and continued action around our 2019 Employee Survey, selected activities were added for 2020, including: our Chief Executive Officer communicating on a weekly basis to all employees, creating new Resource Groups with employee engagement, and quarterly All Hands meetings to review the current state of the business and answer employee questions. 11 Information about our Executive Officers The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of February 26, 2021, based on information furnished by each of them: Name Age Position Paul Black 62 Chief Executive Officer Richard Poulton 55 President and Chief Financial Officer Lisa Khorey 54 Executive Vice President, Chief Client Delivery Officer Tejal Vakharia 48 Senior Vice President and General Counsel Paul Black has served as our Chief Executive Officer since December 2012 and is also a member of our Board of Directors (our Board). Mr. Black also served as our President from December 2012 to September 2015. Prior to joining Allscripts, Mr. Black served as Operating Executive of Genstar Capital, LLC, a private equity firm, and Senior Advisor at New Mountain Finance Corporation, an investment management company. From 1994 to 2007, Mr. Black served in various executive positions (including Chief Operating Officer from 2005 to 2007) at Cerner Corporation, a healthcare IT company. Mr. Black has also served as a director and Chairman (2010-2012) of Truman Medical Centers from 2001-2017. He serves on the board of the Harry S. Truman Presidential Library and the University of Kansas Health System Advancement Board. Richard Poulton has served concurrently as both our President and Chief Financial Officer since March 2020. Mr. Poulton has served as our President since October 2015. Furthermore, Mr. Poulton served as our Chief Financial Officer from October 2012 to March 2016 and as an Executive Vice President from October 2012 to September 2015. From 2006 to 2012, Mr. Poulton served in various positions at AAR Corp., a provider of products and services to commercial aviation and the government and defense industries. His most recent role at AAR Corp. was Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. Mr. Poulton also spent more than ten years at UAL Corporation in a variety of financial and business development roles, including Senior Vice President of Business Development as well as President and Chief Financial Officer of its client-focused Loyalty Services subsidiary. Lisa Khorey has served as our Executive Vice President, Chief Client Delivery Officer since November 2016. Prior to joining Allscripts, Ms. Khorey was the executive director of Ernst & Youngs National Provider Practice, specializing in analytics. Previously, Ms. Khorey held a variety of technical and executive leadership roles at University of Pittsburgh Medical Center. Tejal Vakharia has served as our Senior Vice President and General Counsel since June 2020. Prior to that, Ms. Vakharia was the Senior Vice President and Chief Compliance Counsel for Allscripts. Prior to joining Allscripts in 2011, she held business, compliance and legal leadership positions at General Electric and Abbott Laboratories, and was an attorney at the multinational law firms of Foley & Lardner and Dentons. Available Information Copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), are filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). We are subject to the informational requirements of the Exchange Act and we file or furnish reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Such reports and information are available free of charge at our website at investor.allscripts.com as soon as reasonably practicable following our filing of any of these reports with, or furnishing any of these reports to, the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC ( http://www.sec.gov ). 12 Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition, operating results and stock price can be materially and adversely affected by a number of factors, whether currently known or unknown, including, but not limited to, those described below. Any one or more of such factors, some of which are outside of our control, could directly or indirectly cause our actual financial condition and operating results to vary materially from our past or anticipated future financial condition or operating results. Because of the following factors, as well as other factors affecting our financial condition and operating results, past financial performance should not be considered a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement made by us in this Form 10-K or elsewhere. The following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10-K. Risks Related to COVID-19 The novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic has adversely impacted and could continue to adversely impact the business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows of us and our clients. The COVID-19 pandemic and efforts to control its spread have had a significant, ongoing impact on our operations and the operations of our healthcare clients. The magnitude and duration of the disruption and resulting decline in business activity will largely depend on future developments which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. Because our hospital and other health care provider clients have understandably prioritized their resources toward the COVID-19 outbreak, we expect that our business will continue to be adversely affected, including by negatively impacting the demand and timing for implementing our solutions and the timing of payment for our solutions. For example, the COVID-19 pandemic negatively impacted revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020, as we saw delays in deals with upfront software revenue and professional services implementations across our inpatient and outpatient base. We also experienced lower revenue from our clients as patient volumes were lower for most of our clients. We are unable to predict the continuing magnitude of any such effect. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, certain industry events that we sponsor or at which we present and certain client events have been canceled, postponed or moved to virtual-only experiences, and we have instituted a work-from-home policy for most of our employees and have significantly restricted employee travel, which has restricted our sales, marketing and other important business activities. In addition, concerns over the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic have caused extreme volatility in financial and other capital markets which has adversely impacted and may continue to adversely impact our stock price and our ability to access capital markets. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will continue to impact our results of operations and financial condition will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the duration and severity of the pandemic, resurgences or additional waves of outbreaks of the virus in various jurisdictions (including new strains or mutations of the virus), the impact of the pandemic on economic activity, the actions taken by health authorities and policy makers to contain its impacts on public health and the global economy, and the availability and effectiveness of vaccines. The COVID-19 pandemic may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described below, such as those relating to our products and services, sales cycles and implementation schedules, the retention of key employees, financial performance and debt obligations. Risks Related to Our Industry Markets for our products and services are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change, and we may be unable to compete effectively in these markets. The markets for our products and services are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapidly evolving technology, solution standards and user needs and the frequent introduction of new products and services. Some of our competitors may be more established, benefit from greater name recognition and have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us. Moreover, we expect that competition will continue to increase as a result of potential incentives provided by government programs and as a result of consolidation in both the IT and healthcare industries. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including: breadth and depth of services, including our open architecture and the level of product integration across care settings; integrated platform; regulatory compliance; reputation; reliability, accuracy and security; client service; 13 total cost of ownership; innovation; and industry acceptance, expertise and experience. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that the competitive pressures that we face will not materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. Consolidation in the healthcare industry could adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. Many healthcare provider organizations are consolidating to create integrated healthcare delivery systems with greater market power. As provider networks and managed care organizations consolidate, thus decreasing the number of market participants, competition to provide products and services like ours will become more intense, and the importance of establishing and maintaining relationships with key industry participants will increase. These industry participants may try to use their market power to negotiate price reductions for our products and services. Further, consolidation of management and billing services through integrated delivery systems may decrease demand for our products. Such consolidation may also lead integrated delivery systems to require newly acquired physician practices to replace their current Allscripts EHR product with that already in use in the larger enterprise. Any of these factors could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. We are subject to a number of existing laws, regulations and industry initiatives, and we are susceptible to a changing regulatory environment. As a participant in the healthcare industry, our operations and relationships, and those of our clients, are regulated by a number of foreign, federal, state and local governmental entities. The impact of this regulation on us is direct, to the extent we are ourselves subject to these laws and regulations, and is also indirect, both in terms of the level of government reimbursement available to our clients and in that, in a number of situations, even if we are not directly regulated by specific healthcare laws and regulations, our products must be capable of being used by our clients in a manner that complies with those laws and regulations. The ability of our clients to comply with laws and regulations while using our solutions could affect the marketability of our products or our compliance with our client contracts, or even expose us to direct liability under the theory that we had assisted our clients in a violation of healthcare laws or regulations. Because our business relationships with physicians, hospitals and other provider clients are unique and the healthcare IT industry as a whole is relatively young, the application of many state and federal regulations to our business operations and to our clients is uncertain. It is possible that a review of our business practices or those of our clients by courts or regulatory authorities could result in a determination that could adversely affect us. See the risk factor entitled The failure by Practice Fusion to comply with the terms of its settlement agreements with the U.S. Department of Justice (the DOJ) could have a material and adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and, even if Practice Fusion complies with those settlement agreements, the costs and burdens of compliance could be significant, and we may face additional investigations and proceedings from other governmental entities or third parties related to the same or similar conduct underlying the agreements with the DOJ. Furthermore, as we expand our business globally, we become subject to comparable laws and regulations in each non-United States jurisdiction in which we operate, which creates additional risks. See the risk factor entitled Our business is subject to the risks of global operations below for more information. Specific risks include, but are not limited to: Healthcare Fraud. Federal and state governments continue to enhance regulation of and increase their scrutiny over practices involving healthcare fraud perpetrated by healthcare providers and professionals whose services are reimbursed by Medicare, Medicaid and other government healthcare programs. Any determination by a regulatory, prosecutorial or judicial authority that any of our activities involving our clients, vendors or channel partners violate any of these laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, require us to change or terminate some portions of our business, require us to refund a portion of our license or service fees or disqualify us from providing services to clients doing business with government programs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Even an unsuccessful challenge by regulatory or prosecutorial authorities of our activities could result in adverse publicity, require a costly response from us and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Patient Information. Our business is subject to rules, particularly HIPAA and HITECH, and contractual obligations relating to the privacy and security of protected health information (PHI) that we and our subcontractors may have access to as part of the operation of our business. These rules and obligations have increased the cost of compliance and could subject us to additional enforcement actions and contractual liability, which could further increase our costs and adversely affect the way in which we do business. The penalties for a violation of HIPAA or HITECH are significant and could have an adverse impact upon our business, financial condition and operating results, if such penalties ever were imposed. If we or our subcontractors do not follow procedures and policies for the handling of PHI, or if those procedures and policies are not sufficient to prevent the unauthorized disclosure of PHI, we could be subject to civil and/or criminal liability, fines and lawsuits, termination of our client contracts or our operations could be shut down. Moreover, because all HIPAA standards and HITECH implementing regulations and guidance are subject to 14 change or interpretation, we cannot predict the full future impact of HIPAA, HITECH or their implementing regulations on our business and operations. Additionally, certain state privacy laws are not preempted by HIPAA and HITECH and may impose independent obligations upon our clients or us. Additional legislation governing the acquisition, storage and transmission or other dissemination of health record information and other personal information, including social security numbers and other identifiers, continues to be proposed and come into force at the state level. There can be no assurance that changes to state or federal laws will not materially restrict the ability of providers to submit information from patient records using our products and services. Electronic Prescribing. The use of our software by physicians to perform a variety of functions, including electronic prescribing, which refers to the electronic routing of prescriptions to pharmacies and the ensuing dispensation, is governed by state and federal law, including fraud and abuse laws. States have differing prescription format requirements, which we have programmed into our software. There is significant variation in the laws and regulations governing prescription activity, as federal law and the laws of many states permit the electronic transmission of certain controlled prescription orders, while the laws of several states neither specifically permit nor specifically prohibit the practice. Restrictions exist at the federal level on the use of electronic prescribing for controlled substances and certain other drugs. However, some states (most notably New York) have passed complementary laws governing the use of electronic prescribing tools in the use of prescribing opioids and other controlled substances, and we expect this to continue to be addressed with regulations in other states. In general, regulations in this area impose certain requirements which can be burdensome and evolve regularly and may adversely affect our business model. Aspects of our clinical products are affected by such regulation because of our need to include features or functions in our products to meet certain regulatory requirements, as well as the need of our clients to comply, and we expect this will continue for the foreseeable future. Electronic Health Records. A number of important federal and state laws governing the use and content of EHRs may affect the design of such technology. As a company that provides EHRs to a variety of providers of healthcare, our systems and services must be designed in a manner that facilitates our clients compliance with these laws. We cannot predict the content or effect of possible changes to these laws or new federal and state laws that might govern these systems and services. We may also be subject to future legislation and regulations concerning the development and marketing of healthcare software systems or requirements related to product functionality. These could increase the cost and time necessary to market new services and could affect us in other respects not presently foreseeable. Furthermore, several of our products are certified by an Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology-approved certifying body as meeting the standards for functionality, interoperability and security under HITECH. Our failure to maintain this certification or otherwise meet industry standards could adversely impact our business. HITECH identified the meaningful use of interoperable electronic health records throughout the United States health care delivery system as a critical national goal. By using certified EHR technology and submitting information on the quality of care and other measures to the Secretary of Health & Human Services, eligible healthcare professionals and hospitals have been able to qualify for an additional Medicare and Medicaid payment for the Meaningful Use of certified EHR technology that meets specified objectives under the EHR Incentive program. If our clients do not receive or lose expected incentive payments, this could harm their willingness to purchase future products or upgrades, and therefore could have an adverse effect on our future revenues. Claims Transmission. Our system electronically transmits medical claims by physicians to patients payers for approval and reimbursement. In addition, we offer revenue cycle management services that include the manual and electronic processing and submission of medical claims by physicians to patients payers for approval and reimbursement. Federal law provides that it is both a civil and a criminal violation for any person to submit, or cause to be submitted, a claim to any payer, including, without limitation, Medicare, Medicaid and all private health plans and managed care plans, seeking payment for any services or products that overbills or bills for items that have not been provided to the patient. We have in place policies and procedures that we believe assure that all claims that are transmitted by our system and through our services are accurate and complete, provided that the information given to us by our clients is also accurate and complete. If, however, we or our subcontractors do not follow those procedures and policies, or they are not sufficient to prevent inaccurate claims from being submitted, we could be subject to liability. Furthermore, to the extent that there is an information security breach, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. See If our security is breached, we could be subject to liability, and clients could be deterred from using our products and services. Medical Devices. Certain computer software products are regulated as medical devices under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. The Cures Act, passed in December 2016, clarified the definition of a medical device to exclude health information technology such as EHRs; however, the legislation did leave the opportunity for that designation to be revisited if determined to be necessary by changing industry and technological dynamics. Accordingly, the Food and Drug Administration (the FDA) may become increasingly active in regulating computer software intended for use in healthcare settings. Depending on the product, we could be required to notify the FDA and demonstrate substantial equivalence to other products on the market before marketing such products or obtain FDA approval by demonstrating safety and effectiveness before marketing a product. Depending on the intended use of a device, the FDA could require us to obtain extensive data from clinical studies to demonstrate safety or effectiveness or substantial equivalence. If the FDA requires this data, we could be required to obtain approval of an investigational device exemption 15 before undertaking clinical trials. Clinical trials can take extended periods of time to complete. We cannot provide assurances that the FDA would approve or clear a device after the completion of such trials. In addition, these products would be subject to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Acts general controls. The FDA can impose extensive requirements governing pre- and post-market conditions such as approval, labeling and manufacturing, as well as governing product design controls and quality assurance processes. Failure to comply with FDA requirements can result in criminal and civil fines and penalties, product seizure, injunction and civil monetary policieseach of which could have an adverse effect on our business. Increased government involvement in healthcare could materially and adversely impact our business. United States healthcare system reform at both the federal and state level could increase government involvement in healthcare, reconfigure reimbursement rates and otherwise change the business environment of our clients and the other entities with which we have a business relationship. We cannot predict whether or when future healthcare reform initiatives at the federal or state level or other initiatives affecting our business will be proposed, enacted or implemented or what impact those initiatives may have on our business, financial condition or operating results. Our clients and the other entities with which we have a business relationship could react to these initiatives and the uncertainty surrounding these proposals by curtailing or deferring investments, including those for our products and services. Additionally, government regulation could alter the clinical workflow of physicians, hospitals and other healthcare participants, thereby limiting the utility of our products and services to existing and potential clients and curtailing broad acceptance of our products and services. Further examples of government involvement could include requiring the standardization of technology relating to EHRs, providing clients with incentives to adopt EHR solutions or developing a low-cost government-sponsored EHR solution, or increased enforcement activity targeting healthcare fraud and abuse. Changes in interoperability and other regulatory standards applicable to our software could require us to incur substantial additional development costs. Our clients and the industry leaders enacting regulatory requirements are concerned with, and often require, that our software solutions be interoperable with other third-party health IT suppliers. Market forces or governmental authorities have created and could continue to create software interoperability standards that could apply to our solutions, and if our applicable products or services are not consistent with those standards, we could be forced to incur substantial additional development costs and delays may result in connection therewith. If our applicable products or services are not consistent with these varying and evolving standards or do not support our clients in their efforts to meet new certification requirements, our market position and sales could be adversely affected, and we may have to invest significantly in changes to our software solutions, which could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. Risks Related to Our Company We could fail to maintain and expand our business with our existing clients or effectively transition our clients to newer products. For the year ended December 31, 2020, we had one client that accounted for 12% of our revenue. Our business model depends on our success with maintaining our existing clients, particularly our significant clients, and selling new and incremental products and services to these existing clients. In addition, our success with certain clients requires our achieving interoperability between our new products and our legacy products to provide a single solution that connects healthcare providers across care settings. Certain of our clinical solutions clients initially purchase one or a limited number of our products and services. These clients may choose not to expand their use of, or purchase, additional modules. Also, as we deploy new applications and features for our existing solutions or introduce new solutions and services, our current clients could choose not to purchase these new offerings. If we fail to generate additional business from our current clients, our revenue could grow at a slower rate or even decrease. In addition, the transition of our existing clients to current versions of our products presents certain risks, including the risk of data loss or corruption or delays in completion. If such events occur, our client relationships and reputation could be damaged. Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. Our products or services could fail to perform properly due to errors or similar problems. Complex technology, such as ours, often contains defects or errors, some of which may remain undetected for a period of time. It is possible that such errors may be found after the introduction of new products or services or enhancements to existing products or services. We continually introduce new solutions and enhancements to our solutions and, despite testing by us, it is possible that errors may occur in our software or offerings. If we detect any errors before we introduce a solution, we may have to delay deployment for an extended period of time while we address the problem. If we do not discover errors that affect our new or current solutions or enhancements until after they are deployed, we would need to provide enhancements to correct such errors. Errors in our products or services could result in: product-related liabilities, fraud and abuse or patient safety issues; unexpected expenses and liability and diversion of resources to remedy errors; 16 harm to our reputation; lost sales; delays in commercial releases; delays in or loss of market acceptance of our solutions; license termination or renegotiations; and privacy and/or security vulnerabilities. Furthermore, our clients may use our products or services together with products or services from other companies or those that they have developed internally. As a result, when problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. Even when our products or services do not cause these problems, the existence of these errors may cause us to incur significant costs, divert the attention of our technical personnel from our other solution development efforts, impact our reputation and cause significant issues with our client relationships. We could be subject to liability as a result of information security breaches, and clients could be deterred from using our products and services. Our business relies on the secure electronic transmission, storage and hosting of sensitive information, including PHI, financial information and other sensitive information relating to our clients, company and workforce. As a result, we face risk of deliberate or unintentional incidents involving unauthorized access to our computer systems or data that could result in the misappropriation or loss of assets or the disclosure of sensitive information, the corruption of data, or other disruption of our business operations. We believe that companies in our industry may continue to be targeted by such events with increasing frequency due to the value of healthcare-related data. Any future denial-of-service, ransomware or other Internet-based attacks may range from mere vandalism of our electronic systems to systematic theft of sensitive information and intellectual property. For example, in 2018 we were subject to a ransomware attack that impacted two of our data centers, resulting in outages that left certain of our solutions offline for our clients. In addition, we recently became aware that a third party obtained unauthorized access to personally identifiable information stored in our computer systems. The means of such access has been removed and we are otherwise responding to the incident. While we are still evaluating any potential impact and have no indication the information was distributed or used, we cannot be certain that this or any future breach or incident will not materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, or operating results. We have devoted and continue to devote significant resources to protecting and maintaining the confidentiality of this information, including designing and implementing security and privacy programs and controls, training our workforce and implementing new technology. We have no guarantee that these programs and controls will be adequate to prevent all possible security threats. Any compromise of our electronic systems, including the unauthorized access, use or disclosure of sensitive information or a significant disruption of our computing assets and networks, could adversely affect our reputation or our ability to fulfill contractual obligations, could require us to devote significant financial and other resources to mitigate such problems, and could increase our future cyber security costs, including through organizational changes, deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, further training of employees, and engaging third party experts and consultants. Moreover, unauthorized access, use or disclosure of such sensitive information, including any resulting from the incidents described above, could result in civil or criminal liability or regulatory action, including potential fines and penalties. In addition, any real or perceived compromise of our security or disclosure of sensitive information may deter clients from using or purchasing our products and services in the future, which could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. We use third-party contractors to store, transmit and host sensitive information for our clients. While we have contractual or other mechanisms in place with these third-party contractors that require them to have appropriate security programs and controls in place and, frequently, to indemnify us for security-related breaches, any compromise or failure of these contractors privacy and security practices could adversely affect our reputation, require us to devote financial and other resources to mitigate these breaches, or subject us to litigation from our clients or shareholders, as well as actions by regulatory agencies. Companies, including Allscripts, and governmental agencies have experienced high profile incidents involving data security breaches by entities that transmit and store sensitive information. Lawsuits resulting from these and other similar security breaches have sought very significant monetary damages. While we maintain insurance coverage that, subject to policy terms and conditions and subject to a significant self-insured retention, is designed to address certain aspects of security-related risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise in our business, and we cannot provide assurance that this coverage will prove to be adequate or will continue to be available on acceptable terms. The failure by Practice Fusion to comply with the terms of its settlement agreements with the U.S. Department of Justice (the DOJ) could have a material and adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and, even if Practice Fusion complies with those settlement agreements, the costs and burdens of compliance could be significant, and we may face additional investigations and proceedings from other governmental entities or third parties related to the same or similar conduct underlying the agreements with the DOJ. 17 On January 27, 2020, we announced that our subsidiary Practice Fusion entered into a series of agreements to resolve an investigation conducted by the DOJ and the U.S. Attorney for the District of Vermont. See the risk factor entitled We have acquired and expect to acquire new companies, investments or technologies, which are subject to significant risks. Practice Fusion has entered a three-year deferred prosecution agreement with the U.S. Attorney for the District of Vermont (Deferred Prosecution Agreement) and a civil settlement agreement with the DOJ (Civil Settlement Agreement), and has entered into separate civil settlement agreements with the Medicaid programs for each U.S. state, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico (State Settlement Agreements and, together with the Deferred Prosecution Agreement and the Civil Settlement Agreement, the Settlement Agreements). Under the Deferred Prosecution Agreement, Practice Fusion consented to the filing of a two count criminal information: one felony count of violating the Anti-Kickback Statute and one felony count of conspiracy to violate the Anti-Kickback Statute. The Deferred Prosecution Agreement required Practice Fusion to pay a criminal fine of $25.3 million and a forfeiture payment of $959,700, both of which have been paid in full, and for the Company and Practice Fusion to regularly review and certify compliance with the Deferred Prosecution Agreement. Practice Fusion also agreed to implement Additional Civil Compliance Terms, which include the appointment of an Oversight Organization and the implementation of compliance measures set forth in a Compliance Addendum, each as described further in the Deferred Prosecution Agreement. The Oversight Organization Mandate requires Practice Fusion to retain an Oversight Organization selected by the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Vermont for three years. The Oversight Organization is required to take steps to provide reasonable assurance that Practice Fusion establishes and maintains compliance systems, controls and processes reasonably designed, implemented and operated to ensure Practice Fusions compliance with the terms of the Deferred Prosecution Agreement, including the Compliance Addendum, as well as reducing the risk of any recurrence of misconduct as described in the information and statement of facts. The Compliance Addendum also required Practice Fusion to, within 90 days of the execution of the Deferred Prosecution Agreement, implement and maintain a Sponsored Clinical Decision Support (CDS) Compliance Program that sets procedures and systems to review all current or future Sponsored CDSs on the Practice Fusion electronic health records system. Practice Fusion is subject to the Compliance Addendum for a three-year period from the effective date of the Deferred Prosecution Agreement. Practice Fusion also entered into the Civil Settlement Agreement to resolve allegations by the DOJ that false claims were submitted to governmental healthcare programs. The Civil Settlement Agreement required Practice Fusion to pay a civil settlement of $118.6 million, which included $5.2 million designated for the state Medicaid program expenditures and has been paid in full. In addition, Practice Fusion entered into the State Settlement Agreements to resolve Medicaid claims under state law analogues to the federal False Claims Act. The financial terms of the State Settlement Agreements are substantially similar to those set forth in the Civil Settlement Agreement. See Note 22, Contingencies, to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10-K for additional information. Compliance with the terms of the Settlement Agreements has imposed and could continue to impose significant costs and burdens on us. If we fail to comply with any such Settlement Agreement, the DOJ may impose substantial monetary penalties, exclude Practice Fusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs, and/or criminally prosecute Practice Fusion, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Other government investigations or legal or regulatory proceedings, including investigations or proceedings brought by private litigants or shareholders, federal agencies, private insurers and states attorneys general, may follow as a consequence of our entry into the Settlement Agreement or the existing government investigation of our EIS Business, which could result in criminal liability, the imposition of damages or non-monetary relief, significant compliance, litigation or settlement costs, other losses, or a diversion of managements attention from other business concerns and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may also be subject to negative publicity related to these matters that could harm our reputation, reduce demand for our solutions and services, result in employee attrition and negatively impact our stock price. We have acquired and expect to acquire new companies, investments or technologies, which are subject to significant risks. We have recently made investments in, or acquisitions of, businesses, joint ventures, new services and technologies, and other intellectual property rights. We expect that we will continue to make such investments and acquisitions in the future. Our investments and acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: the potential failure to achieve the expected benefits of the investment or acquisition, including the inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition or investment costs, or the inability to achieve expected synergies or cost savings; unanticipated expenses related to acquired businesses or technologies; the diversion of financial, managerial and other resources from existing operations; the risks of entering into new markets in which we have little or no experience or where competitors may have stronger positions; unanticipated regulatory and other compliance risks related to acquired companies or technologies; 18 potential write-offs or amortization of acquired assets or investments; the potential loss of key employees, clients or partners of an acquired business; delays in client purchases due to uncertainty related to any acquisition; potential unknown liabilities associated with an investment or acquisition; and the tax effects of any such acquisitions. In addition, prior to their acquisition by us, the Enterprise Information Solutions business acquired from McKesson Corporation (the EIS Business) received a request for documents and information from the U.S. Attorneys Office pursuant to a civil investigative demand (a CID). The CID relates to the certification of the respective businesss software under the U.S. Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technologys electronic health record certification program and related business practices. In August 2018, an additional CID sought similar information related to a separate EIS Business solution. If either CID leads to a claim or legal proceeding against us or our businesses that results in the imposition of damages, non-monetary relief, significant compliance, litigation or settlement costs or any other losses, in each case for which we are not indemnified by the seller of the acquired business, or are otherwise unable to recover against the seller, such damages, relief, costs or losses could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. Additionally, prior to their acquisition by us, Practice Fusion received a request for documents and information from the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Vermont pursuant to a CID. Subsequent to their acquisition by us, Practice Fusion received additional requests for documents and information pursuant to additional CIDs and HIPAA subpoenas. These requests related to the certification of Practice Fusions software under the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Electronic Health Record Incentive Program, compliance with the Anti-Kickback Statute, and related business practices. On January 27, 2020, Practice Fusion entered into a series of agreements to resolve these investigations. See risk factor entitled The failure by Practice Fusion to comply with the terms of its settlement agreements with the DOJ could have a material and adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and, even if Practice Fusion complies with those settlement agreements, the costs and burdens of compliance could be significant, and we may face additional investigations and proceedings from other governmental entities or third parties related to the same or similar conduct underlying the agreements with the DOJ. Furthermore, the success of our acquisitions will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate our existing businesses with those of the acquired businesses, including the integration of employees, products and technologies. These integrations are inherently complex, costly and time-consuming processes and involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to, unanticipated expenses and the diversion of financial, managerial and other resources from both our existing operations and those of the acquired businesses. The integration of foreign acquisitions presents additional challenges associated with integrating operations across different cultures and languages, as well as currency and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. If we fail to properly evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments, or if we fail to successfully integrate acquired businesses, we may not be able to achieve projected results or support the amount of consideration paid for such acquired businesses or investments, which could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. Finally, if we finance acquisitions or investments by issuing equity or convertible or other debt securities or loans, our existing stockholders may be diluted, or we could face constraints related to the terms of and repayment obligations related to the incurrence of indebtedness. This could materially and adversely impact our stock price. The realignment of our sales, services and support organizations could adversely affect client relationships and affect our future growth. We periodically make adjustments to our sales, services and support organizations in response to market opportunities, management changes, product introductions and other internal and external considerations. These changes could result in a temporary lack of focus and reduced productivity. In addition, these adjustments could result in our clients experiencing a change in our employees with whom they interact. Any of these changes could adversely impact individual client relationships, client retention, and sales of products and services to existing clients. It is also possible that these changes could adversely affect our ability to sell our products and services to new clients. Any such events could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. Our clients may not accept our products and services or may delay decisions whether to purchase our products and services. Our business model depends on our ability to sell our products and services. Acceptance of our products and services may require our clients to adopt different behavior patterns and new methods of conducting business and exchanging information. We cannot provide assurance that our clients will integrate our products and services into their workflow or that participants in the healthcare market will accept our products and services as a replacement for traditional methods of conducting healthcare transactions. Achieving market acceptance for our products and services will require substantial sales and marketing efforts and the expenditure of significant financial and other resources to create awareness and demand by participants in the healthcare industry. If we fail to achieve broad acceptance of our products and services by physicians, hospitals and other healthcare industry participants, or if we fail 19 to position our services as a preferred method for information management and healthcare delivery, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely impacted. It is difficult to predict the sales cycle and implementation schedule for our products and services. The duration of the sales cycle and implementation schedule for our products and services depends on a number of factors, including the nature and size of the potential client and the extent of the commitment being made by the potential client, all of which may be difficult to predict. Our sales and marketing efforts with respect to hospitals and large health organizations generally involve a lengthy sales cycle due to these organizations complex decision-making processes. Additionally, in light of increased government involvement in healthcare and related changes in the operating environment for healthcare organizations, our current and potential clients may react by reducing or deferring investments, including their purchases of our solutions or services. If clients take longer than we expect to decide whether to purchase our solutions, our selling expenses could increase and our revenues could decrease, which could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. If clients take longer than we expect to implement our solutions, our recognition of related revenue would be delayed, which could also materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. The implementation of large and complex contracts requires us to devote sufficient personnel, systems, equipment, technology and other resources necessary to ensure a timely and successful implementation. In addition, due to the amount of resources dedicated to implement large and complex contracts, our ability to successfully bid for and implement other new customer contracts may be adversely affected. If we fail to implement large and complex contracts successfully and in a timely manner, or if as a result of resource constraints, we fail to properly implement other new customer contracts, we may face significant challenges that will adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our future success depends upon our ability to grow, and if we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may incur unexpected expenses and be unable to meet our clients requirements. We will need to expand our operations if we successfully achieve market acceptance for our products and services. We cannot be certain that our systems, procedures, controls and existing space will be adequate to support expansion of our operations. Our future operating results will depend on the ability of our officers and employees to manage changing business conditions and to effectively maintain and improve our technical, administrative, financial control and reporting systems. We may not be able to expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate these increases. Difficulties in managing any future growth, including as a result of integrating any prior or future acquisition with our existing businesses, could cause us to incur unexpected expenses, render us unable to meet our clients requirements, and consequently could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. We are working to expand our operations in markets outside of the United States. There can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful. We have limited experience in marketing, selling, implementing and supporting our products and services abroad. Expansion of our global sales and operations may require us to divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel and could result in significant expense to us, which could materially and adversely impact our operating results. We may be unable to successfully introduce new products or services or fail to keep pace with advances in technology. The successful implementation of our business model depends on our ability to adapt to evolving technologies and increasingly aggressive industry standards and introduce new products and services accordingly. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to introduce new products on schedule, or at all, or that such products will achieve market acceptance. Moreover, competitors may develop competitive products that could adversely affect our operating results. Any failure by us to introduce planned products or other new products or to introduce these products on schedule could have an adverse effect on our revenue growth and operating results. If we cannot adapt to changing technologies, our products and services may become obsolete and our business could suffer. Because the markets in which we operate are characterized by rapid technological change, we may be unable to anticipate changes in our current and potential clients or users requirements that could make our existing technology obsolete. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to enhance our existing products and services, develop new technology that addresses the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our prospective clients and users, license leading technologies and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices, all on a timely and cost-effective basis. The development of our proprietary technology entails significant technical and business risks. We may not be successful in using new technologies effectively or adapting our proprietary technology to evolving client or user requirements or emerging industry standards. Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. Our business depends in part on our ability to establish and maintain additional strategic relationships. To be successful, we must continue to maintain our existing strategic relationships and establish additional strategic relationships with leaders in a number of the markets in which we operate. This is critical to our success because we believe that these relationships contribute to our ability to: 20 extend the reach of our products and services to a larger number of physicians and hospitals and to other participants in the healthcare industry; develop and deploy new products and services; further enhance our brand; and generate additional revenue and cash flows. Entering into strategic relationships is complicated because strategic partners may decide to compete with us in some or all of the markets in which we operate. In addition, we may not be able to maintain or establish relationships with key participants in the healthcare industry if we conduct business with their competitors. We depend, in part, on our strategic partners ability to generate increased acceptance and use of our products and services. If we lose any of these strategic relationships or fail to establish additional relationships, or if our strategic relationships fail to benefit us as expected, this could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. We may be unable to protect, and we may incur significant costs in enforcing, our intellectual property rights. Our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, and other intellectual property rights are important assets to us. Various events outside of our control pose a threat to our intellectual property rights, as well as to our products, services, and technologies. For instance, any of our current or future intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. Any of our pending or future patent applications, whether or not being currently challenged, may not be issued with the scope of the claims we seek, if at all. We have taken efforts to protect our proprietary rights, including a combination of license agreements, confidentiality policies and procedures, confidentiality provisions in employment agreements, confidentiality agreements with third parties, and technical security measures, as well as our reliance on copyright, patent, trademark, trade secret and unfair competition laws. These efforts may not be sufficient or effective. For example, the secrecy of our trade secrets or other confidential information could be compromised by our employees or by third parties, which could cause us to lose the competitive advantage resulting from those trade secrets or that confidential information. Unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer portions of our products or otherwise infringe upon, misappropriate or use our intellectual property. We may not be able to discover or determine the extent of any unauthorized use of our proprietary rights. We may also conclude that, in some instances, the benefits of protecting our intellectual property rights may be outweighed by the expense. In addition, our platforms incorporate open source software components that are licensed to us under various public domain licenses. Open source license terms are often ambiguous, and there is little or no legal precedent governing the interpretation of many of the terms of certain of these licenses. Therefore, the potential impact of such terms on our business is somewhat unknown. Further, some enterprises may be reluctant or unwilling to use cloud-based services, because they have concerns regarding the risks associated with the security and reliability, among other things, of the technology delivery model associated with these services. If enterprises do not perceive the benefits of our services, then the market for these services may not expand as much or develop as quickly as we expect, either of which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, or operating results. Legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain and evolving. The laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the United States, and effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are distributed. Any impairment of our intellectual property rights, or our failure to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, could give our competitors access to our technology and could materially and adversely impact our business and operating results. Any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could also divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel and result in significant additional expense to us, which could materially and adversely impact our operating results. Finally, we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights, including with respect to legal proceedings, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. We could be impacted by unfavorable results of legal proceedings and claims, such as being found to have infringed on a third partys intellectual property rights. We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that have not yet been fully resolved, including the CIDs and those discussed under Note 22, Contingencies, to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10-K, and additional claims may arise in the future. For example, companies in our industry, including many of our competitors, have been subject to litigation based on allegations of patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. In particular, patent holding companies often engage in litigation seeking to monetize patents that they have purchased or otherwise obtained. As the number of competitors, patents and patent holding companies in our industry increases, the functionality of our products and services expands, and as we enter into new geographies and markets, the number of intellectual 21 property rights-related actions against us has increased and is likely to continue to increase. We are vigorously defending against these actions in a number of jurisdictions. If we are found to infringe one or more patents or other intellectual property rights, regardless of whether we can develop non-infringing technology, we may be required to pay substantial damages or royalties to a third party, and we may be subject to a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain products or services. Furthermore, certain of our agreements require us to indemnify our clients and third-party service providers for third party intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase the costs to us of an adverse ruling on such claims and could adversely impact our relationships with our clients and third party service providers. In certain cases, we may consider the desirability of entering into licensing agreements, although no assurance can be given that such licenses can be obtained on acceptable terms or that litigation will not occur. These license agreements may also significantly increase our operating expenses. Regardless of the merit of particular claims, legal proceedings may be expensive, time-consuming, disruptive to our operations and distracting to our management. If one or more legal matters were resolved against or settled by us in a reporting period for amounts in excess of managements expectations, our consolidated financial statements for that reporting period could be materially and adversely impacted. Such an outcome could result in significant compensatory, punitive or other monetary damages; disgorgement of revenue or profits; remedial corporate measures; or other injunctive or equitable relief against us, any of which could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. We maintain insurance coverage that may apply in the event we are involved in a legal proceeding or claim. This coverage may not continue to be available on acceptable terms, may not be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more claims against us, and may include larger self-insured retentions or exclusions for certain products or services. In addition, the insurer might disclaim coverage as to any future claim. This could increase the magnitude of the impact of one or more legal proceedings or claims being resolved against or settled by us. Our exposure to risks associated with various claims, including the use of intellectual property, may be increased as a result of acquisitions of other companies. For example, we may have a lower level of visibility into the development process with respect to intellectual property, or the care taken to safeguard against infringement risks, with respect to the acquired company or its technology. In addition, third parties may make infringement or related claims after we have acquired companies that had not been asserted prior to the acquisition. Our success depends on the continued service and availability of key personnel. Much of our future performance depends on the continued availability and service of our key personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer and our President, the other members of our senior management team, and our other highly qualified personnel, as well as being able to hire additional highly qualified personnel who have a deep understanding of our industry. Competition in our industry for such personnel, especially with respect to sales and technical personnel, is intense. We are required to expend significant resources on identifying, hiring, developing, motivating and retaining such personnel throughout our organization. Many of the companies with whom we compete for such personnel have greater resources than us and may be able to offer more attractive terms of employment. Our investment in training and developing our employees makes them more attractive to our clients and competitors, who may then seek to recruit them. Furthermore, our compensation arrangements, such as our equity award programs, may not always be successful in attracting new employees and retaining and motivating our existing employees. Our failure to attract new highly qualified personnel, or our failure to retain and motivate our existing key personnel, could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. Our independent content and service providers may fail to perform adequately or comply with laws, regulations or contractual covenants. We depend on independent content and service providers for communications and information services and for some of the benefits we provide through our software applications and services, including the maintenance of managed care pharmacy guidelines, drug interaction reviews, the routing of transaction data to third-party payers and the hosting of our applications. Our ability to rely on these services could be impaired as a result of the failure of such providers to comply with applicable laws, regulations and contractual covenants or as a result of events affecting such providers, such as power loss, telecommunication failures, software or hardware errors, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems, fire, flood and natural disasters. Any such failure or event could adversely affect our relationships with our clients and damage our reputation. This could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. We may have no means of replacing content or services on a timely basis or at all if they are inadequate or in the event of a service interruption or failure. We also rely on independent content providers for the majority of the clinical, educational and other healthcare information that we provide. In addition, we depend on our content providers to deliver high quality content from reliable sources and to continually upgrade their content in response to demand and evolving healthcare industry trends. If these parties fail to develop and maintain high quality, attractive content, the value of our brand and our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely impacted. We may be liable for use of content we provide. 22 We provide content for use by healthcare providers in treating patients. Third-party content suppliers provide certain of this content. If this content is incorrect or incomplete, adverse consequences, including death, may occur and give rise to product liability and other claims against us. In addition, certain of our solutions provide applications that relate to patient clinical information, and a court or government agency may take the position that our delivery of health information directly, including through licensed practitioners, or delivery of information by a third party site that a consumer accesses through our websites, exposes us to personal injury liability, or other liability for wrongful delivery or handling of healthcare services or erroneous health information. While we maintain insurance coverage in an amount that we believe is sufficient for our business, we cannot provide assurance that this coverage will prove to be adequate or will continue to be available on acceptable terms, if at all. A claim that is brought against us that is uninsured or under-insured could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. Even unsuccessful claims could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and other resources. Changes to the healthcare regulatory landscape could force us to reduce our prices. We may be subject to pricing pressures with respect to our future sales arising from various sources, including practices of managed care organizations, group purchasing arrangements made through government programs such as the Regional Extension Centers, and government action affecting reimbursement levels related to physicians, hospitals, home health professionals or any combination thereof under Medicare, Medicaid and other government health programs. Our clients and the other entities with which we have a business relationship are affected by changes in statutes, regulations and limitations in governmental spending for Medicare, Medicaid and other programs. Recent government actions and future legislative and administrative changes could limit government spending for the Medicare and Medicaid programs, limit payments to hospitals and other providers, increase emphasis on competition, impose price controls, initiate new and expanded value-based reimbursement programs and create other programs that potentially could have an adverse effect on our clients and the other entities with which we have a business relationship. If our pricing experiences significant downward pressure, our business will be less profitable and our financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Our failure to license and integrate third-party technologies could harm our business. We depend upon licenses for some of the technology used in our solutions from third-party vendors and intend to continue licensing technologies from third parties. These technologies may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Most of these licenses can be renewed only by mutual consent and may be terminated if we breach the terms of the license and fail to cure the breach within a specified period of time. Our inability to obtain, maintain or comply with any of these licenses could delay development until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed and integrated, which would harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Most of our third-party licenses are non-exclusive, and our competitors may obtain the right to use any of the technology covered by these licenses and use the technology to compete directly with us. Our use of third-party technologies exposes us to increased risks, including, but not limited to, risks associated with the integration of new technology into our solutions, the diversion of our resources from development of our own proprietary technology and our inability to generate revenue from licensed technology sufficient to offset associated acquisition and maintenance costs. In addition, if our vendors choose to discontinue support of the licensed technology in the future or are unsuccessful in their continued research and development efforts, we may not be able to modify or adapt our own solutions. Our business is subject to the risks of global operations. We operate in several countries outside of the United States, including significant operations in Canada, India, Israel, the UK and Australia, and we are further expanding our global sales efforts. This subjects our business to risks and challenges associated with operating globally, which include: changes in local political, economic, social and labor conditions; natural disasters, acts of war, terrorism, pandemics or security breaches; different employee/employer relationships, existence of workers councils and labor unions, and other challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences; restrictions on foreign ownership and investments, and stringent foreign exchange controls that may prevent us from repatriating, or make it cost-prohibitive for us to repatriate, cash earned in countries outside of the United States; import and export requirements, tariffs, trade disputes and barriers; longer payment cycles in some countries, increased credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; uncertainty regarding liability for our products and services, including uncertainty as a result of local laws and lack of legal precedent; different or lesser protection of our intellectual property; different legal and regulatory requirements that may apply to our products and/or how we operate; 23 the discontinuation of the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) and the replacement with an alternative reference rate, which may adversely impact interest rates; and localization of our products and services, including translation into foreign languages and associated expenses. All of the foregoing risks could prevent or restrict us from offering products or services to a particular market, could increase our operating costs, and could otherwise materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, our compliance with complex foreign and United States laws and regulations that apply to our global operations increases our cost of doing business. These numerous and sometimes conflicting laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, internal control and disclosure rules, data privacy requirements, anti-corruption laws (such as the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act) and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials, and antitrust and competition regulations. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in, among other things, fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, and could also affect our global expansion efforts, our business and our operating results. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, agents or distributors, or third parties with whom we do business, will not violate our policies. Furthermore, potential changes in data privacy and protection requirements may increase our future legal and regulatory compliance burden. Finally, since we conduct business in currencies other than the United States dollar, but report our financial results in United States dollars, we face exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the United States dollar and foreign currencies may make our products and services more expensive for our global clients, or otherwise materially and adversely impact our operating results. We may occasionally hedge our global currency exposure; however, hedging programs are inherently risky and could expose us to additional risks. Risks Related to Our Common Stock and Indebtedness Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue preferred stock, and our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and debt instruments contain anti-takeover provisions. Our Board of Directors (our Board) has the authority to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the preferences, rights and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. In the event that we issue shares of preferred stock in the future that have preference over our common stock with respect to payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, or if we issue shares of preferred stock that are convertible into our common stock at greater than a one-to-one ratio, the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock or our stock price could be materially and adversely impacted. The ability of our Board to issue shares of preferred stock without any action on the part of our stockholders could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management that certain of our stockholders may deem advantageous, which could lower our stock price. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws also contain provisions that could discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management that certain of our stockholders may deem advantageous, which could lower our stock price. These provisions, among other things, prohibit our stockholders from acting by written consent or calling a special meeting of stockholders, and provide that our Board is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws. Additionally: the indenture (the Indenture) governing our 0.875% Convertible Senior Notes due 2027 (the Convertible Notes) may prohibit us from engaging in a change of control of our company unless, among other things, the surviving entity assumes our obligations under the Convertible Notes; if a change of control of our company occurs, the Indenture may permit holders of the Convertible Notes to require us to repurchase all or a portion of the Convertible Notes, and may also require us to pay a make-whole premium (in either cash, shares of our common stock or a combination of cash or shares of our common stock) by increasing the conversion rate for a note holder who elects to convert; and immediately prior to a change of control of our company, the Second Amended Credit Agreement (as defined under Note 10, Debt, to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10-K) may require us to repay all indebtedness outstanding thereunder. These provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, and debt instruments could discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management that certain of our stockholders may deem advantageous, and therefore could limit our stock price. Finally, our certificate of incorporation includes an election to be governed by Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits us from engaging in any business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years from the date the person became an interested stockholder, unless certain conditions are met. This provision could discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company by making it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to effect such a 24 change of control without negotiation, and may apply even if some of our stockholders consider the acquisition beneficial to them. This provision could also adversely affect our stock price. Our stock price is subject to volatility. The market for our common stock has experienced and may experience significant price and volume fluctuations in response to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Additionally, the stock market in general, and the market prices for companies in our industry in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may materially and adversely impact our stock price, regardless of our actual operating performance. Furthermore, volatility in our stock price could force us to increase our cash compensation to employees or grant larger stock awards than we have historically, which could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. Some companies that have experienced volatility in the trading price of their stock have been the subject of securities class action litigation. If we are the subject of such litigation, it could result in substantial costs to us and divert our managements attention and resources, which could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. Our quarterly operating results may vary. Our quarterly operating results have varied in the past, and we expect that our quarterly operating results will continue to vary in future periods depending on a number of factors, some of which we have no control over, including clients budgetary constraints and internal acceptance procedures, the sales, service and implementation cycles for our software products, potential downturns in the healthcare market and in economic conditions generally, and other factors described in this Risk Factors section. We base our expense levels in part on our expectations concerning future revenue, and these expense levels are relatively fixed in the short-term. If we have lower revenue than expected, we may not be able to reduce our spending in the short-term in response. Any shortfall in revenue could materially and adversely impact our operating results. In addition, our product sales cycle for larger sales is lengthy and unpredictable, making it difficult to estimate our future bookings for any given period. If we do not achieve projected booking targets for a given period, securities analysts may change their recommendations on our stock price. For these and other reasons, we may not meet the earnings estimates of securities analysts or investors, and our stock price could be materially and adversely impacted. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations, increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, and otherwise place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less indebtedness. We may also be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. If new indebtedness is added to our current indebtedness levels, the related risks that we face could intensify. The Second Amended Credit Agreement and the Indenture each contain, and any future indebtedness would likely contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to take actions that may be in our best interests. Additionally, the Second Amended Credit Agreement requires us to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios. Our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to continue to meet those ratios. A breach of any of these covenants could result in an event of default under the Second Amended Credit Agreement or the Indenture. Under the Indenture, holders of the Convertible Notes have the right to require us to repurchase their Convertible Notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change (as defined in the Indentures) at a fundamental change repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. However, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make such repurchases of the Convertible Notes. Our failure to repurchase the Convertible Notes at a time when the repurchase is required would constitute a default under the Indenture, which may result in acceleration of our outstanding indebtedness. In addition, if, upon the occurrence of a fundamental change (as defined in the Indenture), holders of at least $35 million aggregate principal amount of the Convertible Notes require us to repurchase their respective Convertible Notes, this will result in a default under the Second Amended Credit Agreement, which may result in, among other things, the requirement to immediately repay all outstanding amounts owed thereunder . Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the Second Amended Credit Agreement or the Indenture, our lenders could terminate all commitments to extend further credit, and some or all of our outstanding indebtedness may become immediately due and payable. We may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. Additionally, we have pledged substantially all of our tangible and intangible property as collateral under the Second Amended Credit Agreement, and the lenders under the Second Amended Credit Agreement could proceed against such collateral if we were unable to timely repay these amounts. 25 The conditional conversion feature of the Convertible Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. In the event the conditional conversion feature of the Convertible Notes is triggered, holders of the Convertible Notes will be entitled to convert the Convertible Notes at any time during specified periods at their option. See Note 10, Debt, to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10-K. If one or more holders elect to convert their Convertible Notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock, we would be required to settle a portion or all of our conversion obligations through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their Convertible Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the Convertible Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital. The accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as the Convertible Notes, could have a material effect on our reported financial results. Under applicable accounting standards, an entity must separately account for the liability and equity components of the convertible debt instruments (such as the Convertible Notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects the issuers economic interest cost. The effect on the accounting for the Convertible Notes is that the equity component is required to be included in the additional paid-in capital section of stockholders equity on our consolidated balance sheet, and the value of the equity component would be treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of the Convertible Notes. As a result, we will be required to record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense in current periods presented as a result of the amortization of the discounted carrying value of the Convertible Notes to their face amount over the term of the Convertible Notes. We will report lower net income in our financial results because interest is required to include both the current periods amortization of the debt discount and the instruments coupon interest, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results, the trading price of our common stock and the trading price of the Convertible Notes. In addition, under certain circumstances, convertible debt instruments (such as the Convertible Notes) that may be settled entirely or partly in cash are currently accounted for utilizing the treasury stock method, the effect of which is that the shares issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of the Convertible Notes exceeds their principal amount. Under the treasury stock method, for diluted earnings per share purposes, the transaction is accounted for as if the number of shares of common stock that would be necessary to settle such excess, if we elected to settle such excess in shares, are issued. We cannot be sure that the accounting standards in the future will continue to permit the use of the treasury stock method. If we are unable to use the treasury stock method in accounting for the shares issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes, then our diluted earnings per share would be adversely affected. In August 2020, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2020-06, Debt-Debt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and Hedging-Contracts in Entitys Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40): Accounting for Convertible Instruments and Contracts in an Entitys Own Equity . The new standard changes the accounting for the convertible debt instruments described above. An entity may no longer be required to separately account for the liability and equity components of convertible debt instruments. This could have the impact of reducing non-cash interest expense, and thereby increasing net income. Additionally, the treasury stock method for calculating earnings per share will no longer be allowed for convertible debt instruments whose principal amount may be settled using shares. Rather, the if-converted method may be required, which would decrease our diluted weighted-average earnings per share. We are currently evaluating the impact of this accounting guidance, which is not effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those fiscal years, until after December 15, 2021. The new standard is discussed under Note 1, Basis of Presentation, to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10-K . General Risk Factors We could be subject to changes in our tax rates, the adoption of new United States or international tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities. We are subject to taxation in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Current economic and political conditions make tax rates in any jurisdiction, including those in the United States, subject to significant change. Our future effective tax rates could also be affected by changes in the mix of our earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation, including changes in tax laws affecting our products and services and the healthcare industry more generally. We are also subject to the examination of our tax returns and other documentation by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. There can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations or that our assessments of the likelihood of an adverse outcome will be correct. If our effective tax rates were to increase, particularly in the United States, or if the ultimate determination of our taxes owed is for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued, then this could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. 26 Our business and reputation may be impacted by IT system failures or other disruptions. We may be subject to IT systems failures and network disruptions. These may be caused by natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, or other events or disruptions. System redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. Such failures or disruptions could prevent access to or the delivery of certain of our products or services, compromise our data or our clients data or result in delayed or cancelled orders, as well as potentially expose us to third party claims. System failures and disruptions could also impede our transactions processing services and financial reporting. War, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health issues and other business disruptions have caused and could cause damage to the global economy, and thus have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our business operations are subject to interruption by natural disasters, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues and other issues beyond our control. Such events could decrease our demand for our products or services or make it difficult or impossible for us to develop and deliver our products or services to our clients. A significant portion of our research and development activities, our corporate headquarters, our IT systems and certain of our other critical business operations are concentrated in a few geographic areas. In the event of a business disruption in one or more of those areas, we could incur significant losses, require substantial recovery time and experience significant expenditures in order to resume operations, which could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. Our failure to maintain proper and effective internal controls over financial reporting could impair our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements. We maintain internal financial and accounting