Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section and other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this Form 10-K) contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on the current beliefs and expectations of our management with respect to future events, only speak as of the date that they are made and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Such statements can be identified by the use of words such as future, anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, intends, plans, predicts, will, would, could, continue, can, may, look forward, aims, hopes and seeks and similar terms, although not all forward-looking statements contain such words or expressions. Actual results could differ significantly from those set forth in the forward-looking statements, and reported results should not be considered an indication of future performance or events. Certain factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors of this Form 10-K. We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statements to reflect changed assumptions, the impact of circumstances or events that may arise after the date of the forward-looking statements, or other changes in our business, financial condition or operating results over time, except as required by law. EXPLANATORY NOTE General As previously disclosed by the Company in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on March 22, 2023 (the March 2023 Form 8-K), the Companys Board of Directors (the Board), after discussion with management, reached a determination that the Companys consolidated financial statements and related disclosures as of and for the year ended December 31, 2021, as of and for the interim periods ended March 31, 2021, June 30, 2021 and September 30, 2021, and as of and for the interim periods ended March 31, 2022, June 30, 2022 and September 30, 2022 should no longer be relied upon because of misstatements to the Companys previously reported revenue resulting from certain internal control failures. Specifically, in conjunction with its external audit procedures, certain internal control failures were detected. The Company commenced an evaluation resulting in certain restatement adjustments (the Restatement Review, as defined below). As described in greater detail below, the Company also conducted an internal review (the Companys Internal Review as defined below) and the Audit Committee of the Board conducted an independent investigation (the Audit Committee Investigation as defined below) during the same period as the Restatement Review. Together, these efforts identified additional restatement adjustments and material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting. In addition, as disclosed by the Company in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on March 4, 2025, the Board, after discussion with management, reached a determination on February 27, 2025 that the Companys consolidated financial statements and related disclosures as of and for the year ended December 31, 2020 should no longer be relied upon because of misstatements to the Companys consolidated balance sheet and income statement identified in connection with the procedures conducted by the Company in connection with the audit of the Companys financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2022. The Audit Committee Investigation and the two reviews are now complete, although remediation work will continue with respect to all identified material weaknesses. Where required, restatement adjustments were made and have been incorporated into this Form 10-K. The restated consolidated financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020 and the restated unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements for the first three quarters and interim periods of 2022 and the first three quarters and interim periods of 2021 are included in this Form 10-K. In this Form 10-K, the Company refers to all periods described above as the Affected Periods. The consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2022 are also included in this Form 10-K. 3 Restatement Review As described above and in the March 2023 Form 8-K, certain misstatements of the Companys revenue reported in the consolidated financial statements for the Affected Periods resulted from certain internal control failures. The internal control failures identified at that time primarily stemmed from ineffective manual accounting processes and a software tool implemented by the Company in order to comply with the requirements of Accounting Standards Codification Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606) issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). As described below, the Company therefore commenced a review into certain accounting and internal control matters (the Restatement Review). This Restatement Review included an analysis of our historical financial statements, accounting policies, and financial reporting, as well as our disclosure