Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section, and other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this Form 10-K) contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on the current beliefs and expectations of our management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Such statements can be identified by the use of words such as future, anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, intends, plans, predicts, will, would, could, can, may, and similar terms. Actual results could differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements, and reported results should not be considered an indication of future performance. Certain factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors of this Form 10-K, which are incorporated herein by reference. We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that may arise after the date of the forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law. PART I Item 1. Business Overview We deliver information technology (IT) and services to help healthcare organizations achieve better clinical, financial and operational results. We sell our solutions to physicians, hospitals, governments, health systems, health plans, retail clinics, retail pharmacies, pharmacy benefit managers and post-acute organizations, such as home health and hospice agencies. We help our clients improve the quality and efficiency of health care with solutions that include electronic health records (EHRs), connectivity, hosting, outsourcing, analytics, patient engagement, and population health products and services. Our solutions empower healthcare professionals with the data, insights, and connectivity they need to succeed in an industry that is rapidly changing from fee-for-service to value-based-care models. We believe we offer some of the most comprehensive solutions in our industry today. Healthcare organizations can effectively manage patients and patient populations across all care settings using a combination of our physician, hospital, health system, post-acute care, and population health management products and services. We believe these solutions will help transform health care as the industry seeks new ways to manage risk, improve quality, and reduce costs. We were founded in 1986. Our parent company, Allscripts Healthcare Solutions, Inc., is incorporated in Delaware. Our principal executive offices are located at 222 Merchandise Mart Plaza, Suite 2024, Chicago, Illinois 60654. Our principal website is www.allscripts.com. The contents of this website are not incorporated into this filing. Furthermore, our references to the URLs for this website are intended to be inactive textual references only. Healthcare IT Industry The healthcare IT industry is facing significant opportunities and challenges due to ongoing regulations and changes in industry standards. These include: ARRA/HITECH: In 2009, the U.S. federal government enacted the American Recovery & Reinvestment Act (ARRA), which included the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH). HITECH authorized the EHR Incentive program (the Meaningful Use program), which provided significant incentive funding to physicians and hospitals that can prove they have adopted and are appropriately using technology such as our EHR solutions. ANSI-5010/ICD-10: Under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has implemented a new version of the standards for HIPAA-covered electronic transactions, including claims, remittance advices, and requests and responses for eligibility, which are called ANSI-5010. Additionally, HIPAA requires entities to upgrade to the tenth revision of the International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems from the World Health Organization, also known as ICD-10, for use in reporting medical diagnoses and inpatient procedures by no later than October 1, 2015. These changes in coding standards require our clients to upgrade to more advanced versions of our solutions. 3 Provider Reimbursement: In recent years, there have been significant changes to provider reimbursement by the U.S. federal government, followed by commercial payers and state governments. There is increasing pressure on healthcare organizations to reduce costs and increase quality, replacing fee-for-service in part by enrolling in an advanced payment model, which could further encourage adoption of healthcare IT. For instance, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) announced its intention to ensure that fifty percent (50%) of Medicare provider payments are sourced through alternative payment models by 2018, including likely expansion of programs such as Accountable Care Organizations (ACOs), which reward providers who contain costs and improve quality through care coordination and population health efforts. Another initiative that involves many of our clients is the Comprehensive Primary Care Initiative, which is working toward similar goals by emphasizing the role of the primary care provider. Another important driver of health IT adoption in the primary care space is the Patient Centered Medical Home program, a voluntary program in which many of our clients are participating and that has a strong emphasis on quality measurement and patient engagement. As a result of these programs, significant levels of reimbursements will require providers to capture, communicate, measure, and share outcomes through technology solutions such as ours. PPACA: The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (as amended, the PPACA), which was signed into law in 2010, has impacted and will likely continue to impact us and our clients. Some PPACA provisions may have a positive effect by requiring the expanded use of products such as ours to participate in certain federal programs. Other provisions, such as those mandating reductions in reimbursement for certain types of providers, may have a negative effect by reducing the resources available to our current and prospective clients to purchase our products. Ambiguity remains for the industry as a whole regarding the future of many programs initially authorized by the PPACA, as CMS and the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation continue to pilot several new approaches to payment and delivery system reform. We believe that these and other changes in laws and regulations, along with increasing pressure from private payers to move providers to quality-based payment programs, will continue to drive adoption of healthcare IT products and services such as ours. For example, although many large physician groups have already purchased EHR technology, we expect those groups may choose to replace their older EHR technology to comply with future Meaningful Use program requirements and to add new features and functionality. We also seek replacement markets for health information exchanges (HIE) and patient portals, despite their recent deployment. Our Solutions We offer several types of products and services for different segments of the healthcare IT market, which support healthcare delivery in every care setting. Ambulatory Solutions For physician practices of every size and specialty, our solutions include integrated EHR and practice management functionality, which are available either via traditional on-premise delivery or as a hosted service, as well as revenue cycle management services, clearinghouse services, and stand-alone electronic prescribing. We also provide a variety of solutions for home care, hospice, skilled nursing, and other post-acute organizations. Ambulatory solutions include: Allscripts TouchWorks EHR (formerly known as Allscripts Enterprise EHR) is an award-winning solution on an Open platform designed to enhance physician productivity using tablet PCs, smartphones, or a desktop workstation. Allscripts TouchWorks EHR automates common tasks, making it easier to prescribe medication, dictate notes, order lab tests, view results, document clinical encounters, and capture charges. In addition to Meaningful Use certification and ICD-10 readiness, Allscripts TouchWorks EHR is the ambulatory clinical software solution of choice for multi-site, multi-specialty practices as well as academic medical centers and clinics. Well designed for the specific needs of physicians in todays increasingly interconnected healthcare environment, Allscripts TouchWorks EHR empowers and connects an organization clinically, operationally, and financially. Allscripts Practice Management is a practice management system that streamlines financial and administrative aspects of physician practices, including patient scheduling and registration, electronic claims submission, electronic remittances, and patient billing and collections. In addition to Meaningful Use Stage 2 certification and ICD-10 readiness, this system also provides multiple resource scheduling, instant reporting, and referral tracking. Our electronic data interchange solution facilitates statement management processing, claims management processing, electronic remittances, and appointment reminders. 4 Allscripts Professional EHR is for small to mid-size practices looking to connect with the community and improve clinical, operational, and financial outcomes. Certified for Meaningful Use Stage 2 and ready for ICD-10, Allscripts Professional EHR enables practices to simplify daily processes, easily document care, attain better insights from analytics, enhance intra-office staff communications, and improve patient engagement, education, and communication. Practices also benefit from robust clinical decision support tools at the point of care and access to a suite of mobile and web-hosted solutions for access to data on the go. Allscripts ePrescribe is a web-based electronic prescribing solution that is safe, secure, and requires no additional hardware. It offers the capability to electronically prescribe directly from a clients iPhone or mobile device. Allscripts is an industry leader in electronic prescribing with more than ten years of experience and over 100,000 users. Features of Allscripts ePrescribe include electronic prescribing of controlled substances (EPCS), electronic prior authorization, and improved patient safety with instant drug interaction checks, dosage levels, adverse reaction, and duplicate therapy checks. Allscripts Payerpath is a leading revenue cycle management and clearinghouse service, which has processed more than one billion claims-related transactions in recent years. Used by thousands of physicians, Allscripts Payerpath provides the credibility, experience, and results demanded by both payers and providers. Allscripts Payerpaths comprehensive suite of internet solutions address every step in the reimbursement cycle for healthcare organizations. Allscripts Revenue Cycle Management Services is a complete, end-to-end, integrated financial and administrative management solution for physician practices that uses a hosted, software-as-a-service (SaaS) environment. This solution provides the opportunity for physician practices to achieve optimization of best practice business processes for improved financial results. Sunrise Ambulatory Care is a complete solution for outpatient care that enables physician practices to operate more efficiently through every stage of care and administration. Physicians can use the same user-friendly tools across outpatient and inpatient care rather than having to learn multiple systems. Allscripts Wand is a native iPad application for Allscripts TouchWorks EHR, Allscripts Sunrise products, and Allscripts Professional EHR. Using Allscripts Wand, mobile healthcare providers can access and manage the most commonly used features of those products throughout the day from their iPad, allowing providers to move between their desktop and iPad for patient consultations and management. Acute Care Solutions Allscripts Sunrise is our integrated complete EHR solution for hospitals, health systems, and physicians, marrying powerful clinical capabilities with next-generation revenue care and administrative solutions. Our acute care offerings include the following clinical, access, financial, and departmental solutions: Sunrise Clinicals includes the major integrated applications Sunrise Acute Care, Sunrise Ambulatory Care, Sunrise Critical Care, Sunrise Emergency Care, Sunrise Pharmacy, and Sunrise Surgical Care, in addition to related modules and capabilities, such as knowledge-based charting, knowledge-based medication administration, and others. Sunrise Clinicals enable a physician, nurse or other authorized clinician to view patient data and enter orders quickly at the point of care, from virtually any other point in the enterprise or through secure remote access. Built around the needs of decision support on an Open platform, Sunrise Clinicals provides evidence-based clinical decision support at the time of order entry and enables interworking with third-party vendors and applications. Sunrise Surgical Care uses the single patient record to support the distinct needs of the perioperative environment to improve patient care and outcomes, improve efficiency, manage costs, and capture revenue. With iPro Anesthesia from iProcedures, Sunrise Surgical Care offers access to patient data in the Sunrise continuous patient record through an encrypted data portal to the iPad, wherever a clinician has access to an internet connection. Sunrise Emergency Care increases emergency department throughput and improves clinical and financial outcomes. Sunrise Mobile MD II is a comprehensive rounding tool for mobile devices that run the Apple iOS operating system (iOS), enabling clinicians quick, easy, and secure access to patient data. Sunrise Mobile Care is an easy-to-use iOS mobile application for registered nurses and other clinical staff, enabling quick, easy, and secure access to patient data. 5 Sunrise Record Manager automates the workflow associated with the collection, maintenance, and distribution of information to maximize the benefits of an EHR. It helps hospitals better meet regulatory reporting requirements by making data more accessible for easier, faster information gathering and compilation in the enterprise health information system. Sunrise Radiology delivers imaging data as an integrated part of the overall patient record that is accessible to clinicians at the point of care or at other points of decision-making. Sunrise Access Manager shares the Sunrise platform and database, which includes Sunrise Enterprise Scheduling and Sunrise Enterprise Registration. These integrated solutions enable healthcare providers to identify a patient at any time within a healthcare organization and to collect and maintain patient information on an enterprise-wide basis. Sunrise Financial Manager provides comprehensive revenue cycle management for hospitals and health systems. Functionalities include revenue capture, billing, and receivables for the management of both hospital and hospital-based physician billing. It enables compliance, improves billing and collections accuracy, and optimizes revenue cycle through a unique visual view of the users workflows, enabling users to adapt easily to business changes. Allscripts ED manages patient flow through the emergency department by tracking patient location, activity, and outstanding orders and procedures. It guides emergency clinicians in entering consistent, complete, and efficient documentation on patients and provide sharable, real-time, mobile access to patient information from registration to discharge. Allscripts EPSi is a financial performance management solution that provides integrated analytics, cost-based accounting, budgeting, and knowledge-based performance management. Allscripts EPSi integrates strategic planning, product-line budgeting, cost accounting, and operation and capital budgeting to enable healthcare organizations to more effectively and accurately forecast its financial future and address its financial challenges. Allscripts Patient Flow is an enterprise-wide clinical resource management and operational analytics solution, assisting with patient throughput management by automating complex and labor intensive hospital processes. It can help improve care coordination and communication while increasing overall efficiency and maximizing use of resources. It addresses all major aspects of patient flow in a hospital, from bed management to transport and turnover. Allscripts Clinical Performance Management is an EHR-agnostic analytics solution used to monitor and improve clinical performance, report on Meaningful Use Stage 1 and Stage 2 compliance, and, ultimately, reduce the cost of care. With indicators and structured reports for more than 90 quality measures, it provides actionable, automated clinical reporting, and organizes transactional clinical data into meaningful information. Allscripts Homecare is designed to improve clinical quality of care, financial performance, and operational control for large, integrated home care organizations and small home care companies. With a strong mobile platform as well as business, clinical, and scheduling functionalities, it enables all users across home health, hospice, and private duty organizations to support EHR capabilities specifically to these segments. Allscripts Referral Management enables home health agencies, hospice agencies, and post-acute care facilities to track all patient referrals in a single system. Using this solution, organizations automatically receive and respond to referrals from hospitals, enter referrals from non-electronic sources, and collect marketing information. Population Health Management Solutions Population Health Management is a strategic imperative for many healthcare executives today and is a primary objective for many ACOs. It is commonly viewed as the next frontier in healthcare delivery. As healthcare providers and payers migrate from volume-based to value-based care delivery, interoperable population health management solutions that are connected to the consumer marketplace are the key to market leadership in the new healthcare reality. Value-based care requires a digitized care chassis across all care settings and across time. Value-based care also requires patient engagement solutions that integrate with existing longitudinal patient record investments. And, to maintain relevancy to provider organizations who are growing through acquisition, these solutions must be EHR-agnostic. 6 We design our population health management solutions for hospitals, health systems, integrated delivery networks, physician practices, clinically integrated networks, ACOs, and organizations undertaking value-based care. Our solutions enable such organizations to connect, transition, analyze, and coordinate care across the entire care community. Our primary population health management offerings are: Allscripts dbMotion is a strategic HIE platform for care coordination, population health management, and analytics that integrates discrete patient data from diverse care settings, regardless of IT supplier, into a single patient record. It provides a longitudinal clinical data repository with semantically harmonized patient data, point-of-care workflow tools, a physician portal, population health support, and an analytics gateway, all of which potentially reduce the cost of care delivery and enable better caregiver-to-caregiver coordination. We acquired this platform through our acquisition of dbMotion, Ltd. (dbMotion) in 2013. Population Health Analytics is a real-time, point-of-care solution within the providers EHR workflow to help reduce the costs of chronic disease management and reduce readmissions. The solution provides analytics for high-cost, high-priority chronic diseases, including diabetes, coronary artery disease, hypertension, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and asthma. This data enables physicians to identify target populations, measure performance and outcomes, analyze utilizations, and manage risk. Collaborate , functionality available through Allscripts dbMotion, delivers web-based functionality to provide clinical teams with a broader view of their patients, all within their day-to-day workflow. It enables organizations to view and filter patient lists based on provider-specified criteria for encounters, clinical documents, imaging, and labs for a single patient or for multiple patients. EHR Agent , functionality available through Allscripts dbMotion, alerts clinicians to patient information in the community record that might exist outside of their native EHR. Providers can view and assess the information, using it to support clinical decisions and care delivery. The application also closes the loop, enabling users to pull specific data elements into their native EHRs. dbMotion Clinical Analytics Gateway , functionality available through Allscripts dbMotion, enables healthcare organizations to leverage analytics packages. To effectively manage populations, clinical analytics must be built on top of harmonized data, aggregated from across the connected community. Analysis based upon normalized clinical data through dbMotion Clinical Analytics Gateway can enable better population management and risk assessment. FollowMyHealth is a cloud-based patient engagement platform that is EHR-agnostic and integrates seamlessly with all systems across the enterprise. Patients have a single point of access regardless of the individual providers software, and discrete patient-generated data flows directly back to the EHR to automatically populate the medical record. FollowMyHealth can be white labeled to expand the organizations brand footprint across an entire community. In addition, its SaaS-delivery model ensures rapid deployment and places minimal demands on internal IT resources. We acquired FollowMyHealth through our acquisition of Jardogs LLC (Jardogs) in 2013. FollowMyHealth Achieve enables providers to engage patients directly in the ongoing management of their care monitoring compliance with care plans remotely and initiating interventions quickly as needed to influence behavior and impact outcomes. Providers enter orders into their Allscripts EHR for a range of conditions, including congestive heart failure, diabetes, hypertension, and obesity. Patients access and follow their clinicians orders via the FollowMyHealth portal, which can include use of wireless devices integrated with the portal (such as scales, blood pressure monitors, and blood glucose meters). FollowMyHealth monitors patient for compliance and rule violation and the care team is alerted via EHR messaging if patient is noncompliant or results exceed parameters. Allscripts Value-Based Care Services support payers and providers seeking to capitalize on opportunities presented by risk-sharing and other value-based models. Its offerings include executive-level advisory and consultative services, practice management infrastructure and workflow support, patient outreach (e.g., via a call center), and medical cost reduction and quality improvement programs. Additional web-based software solutions supply benefits administration and claims adjudication capabilities, supported by care coordination and claims-based analytics, to better manage healthcare spending of patient populations. Allscripts Care Management is a fully-integrated, web-based solution that simplifies and consolidates utilization management, discharge planning, outpatient care management, documentation integrity, quality management, and risk management for hospitals and post-acute care facilities. This system is based on a SaaS-model designed to provide ease of use and minimal IT staff involvement. 7 Allscripts Care Director extends Allscripts Care Management by coordinating outpatient care across home care, physician practices, hospitals, post-acute care facilities, and community services. This web-based solution, which can also be implemented as a stand-alone solution, can help organizations by managing at-risk patients, improving transitions of care, reducing potential readmissions, decreasing redundancies, and connecting all care settings. Patient information can be imported directly into Allscripts Care Director, or pulled from Sunrise Acute Care or certain other third-party EHR systems via Allscripts Care Management. In 2013, we took several significant steps to solidify and advance our population health management solutions, which included the acquisitions of dbMotion, a leading supplier of community health solutions, and Jardogs, the developer of FollowMyHealth, a highly-rated, cloud-based patient engagement solutions provider. We also released our Allscripts Care Director solution in 2013. During 2014, we further advanced our population health management capabilities by introducing additional innovative features, functionality, and enhancements to our solutions, particularly in the areas of connectivity, collaboration and data analytics. Taken together, we believe our solutions are delivering value to our clients by providing them with powerful connectivity and patient engagement and care coordination tools, enabling their users to better comply with the Meaningful Use program. For example, dbMotions platform is capable of harmonizing data from more than 350 clinical information systems such as EHR, radiology, and laboratory systems, and was being used, as of the end of 2014, in approximately 500 hospitals and care settings globally. Also as of the end of 2014, more than 3,000 healthcare organizations were using FollowMyHealth, connecting more than 326,000 providers and caregivers, which represents significant growth from the prior year end. These solutions contribute to our current success, and we expect them to be a key driver of our future growth, both domestically and globally. Services Managed IT Services are modular, cost-effective outsourcing services that enhance productivity for healthcare professionals. Our services model uses skilled professionals, best practices, and proven technology to enable continuous improvement across the healthcare organization. These services assist clients who need experienced staff to augment IT projects or implementations. Alternatively, our clients can fully outsource their entire IT function to us, in which case we manage the day-to-day operations of their IT function, including related procurement and budgeting activities. Allscripts Hosting Solutions help our clients manage their complex healthcare IT solutions infrastructure, which frees up physical space, resources, and costs associated with maintaining computer servers and deploying client-based applications on-site for our clients. We effectively manages our clients hosted environment, including providing backup, recovery management, maintenance, and security services. We also offer other remote services, such as remote monitoring and remote help desk. Allscripts Professional Services help clients achieve quality outcomes through workflow optimization, best practices, applied technologies, and learning experiences through use of our products and services. We provide comprehensive offerings in implementation, consulting, education, and technical support. Payer and Life Sciences A successful value-based care environment requires communication and collaboration among all stakeholders in the healthcare continuum. To effect holistic change in health care, we collaborate with payers, providers, life sciences companies, pharmacy benefit managers, and other partners to develop new programs, processes, and content to improve outcomes for patients. Benefits of Using Our Products and Services We believe that our large base of clients as well as our solutions differentiate us from our competition. We believe we can help lead the shift from fee-for-service care to value-based care, both domestically and globally. We offer a single platform of clinical, financial, connectivity, consumer and information solutions, as well as stand-alone solutions in nearly every significant health information management category. Moreover, we are one of the few healthcare IT companies that can deliver high-quality solutions for every major healthcare setting, from solo physician practices to large academic medical groups, hospitals of every size and configuration, and post-acute organizations, such as skilled nursing facilities, home care, and hospice. A number of our solutions are cloud-based or web-based, which enables our clients to access our solutions via an Internet browser or, in some cases, via mobile device on an as-needed basis, without the cost and complexity of managing the hardware or software in-house. We champion and innovate Open healthcare IT solutions, which means most of our products can operate with existing installed systems. Our Open platform gives clients the freedom to work with multiple vendor systems at a lower cost. Our platform enables clients and third parties to natively build applications without requiring interfaces, which are a costly and common part of solutions that use closed and proprietary architectures. 8 Our Strategy Given the breadth of our portfolio and global client installed base, we believe we are well positioned to connect physicians and caregivers to patients and payors to the caregivers across all healthcare settings. We continue to compete for new opportunities among physician offices, multigroup physician specialty practices, community hospitals and health systems that are looking to one IT supplier to provide an end-to-end solution across all points of care. We believe our leadership position in the ambulatory space, in particular, gives us a competitive advantage in this regard as hospitals and health systems increasingly seek referring relationships with independent physicians across the communities they serve. To reduce costs while maintaining the highest quality of care, global healthcare organizations need to address certain strategic imperatives. Our solutions address needs critical to the future of health care, including data analytics, interoperability, community connectivity, and consumer engagement. Community Connectivity Our care coordination solutions improve safety and quality as a patient transitions from one care setting to another. We help build assessments, monitor results, track outcomes, and make modifications in a persons care plan. Health care is a group effort, and having full visibility into a patients care plan is critical. Access to comprehensive patient information is key, and our community solutions help create an organized, longitudinal patient record spanning all points of care. Interoperability Our unique Open platform connects both clinical and financial data across every setting. Many third party and client developers have successfully integrated their technology with our Open platform, and more than 50,000 providers are using applications on this platform. The Allscripts Unity platform is a proven, scalable, and user-friendly technology that enables seamless integration of devices and applications. With this unique Open platform, clients can connect to any certified application, which saves time and money and gives clients full access to a variety of applications written on the same technology. Data Analytics Healthcare organizations need to analyze dependencies, trends, and patterns. Data-driven decisions require real-time, clean data for better decisions at the point of care. Insights and analytics serve as the foundation for informed analysis and effective planning. They need information that produces true business and clinical intelligence to better manage patient populations. Consumer Engagement Our patient engagement software helps healthcare organizations achieve better outcomes, reduce emergency room visits, and decrease hospitalizations. Our software also integrates with solutions across an organization, regardless of a providers software. With a patient engagement platform, individuals and their families have the opportunity to become active members of their care team, which improves results. These key strategic areas all help healthcare providers better manage populations of patients, especially those with costly chronic conditions such as diabetes, asthma, and heart disease. Business Organization We primarily derive our revenues from sales of our proprietary software (either as a direct license sale or under a SaaS-delivery model), professional services, and IT outsourcing and remote hosting services. These sales are also the basis for our recurring service contracts for software maintenance and certain transaction processing services. We revised our reportable segments effective December 1, 2013 in connection with changes to our organizational and management structure that were announced in 2013. The changes to our organizational and management structure were aimed at improving our operational effectiveness, enhancing our competitiveness and creating a greater focus on client needs. These changes, which involved the creation of strategic business units, were designed to transition us towards a flatter business unit model aligned with key products and services, and away from a functional organization. After the finalization of these changes and based upon the information used by our chief operating decision maker (CODM) for making operating decisions and assessing performance, we identified nine operating segments, which were aggregated into three reportable segments: Clinical and Financial Solutions, Population Health, and Managed Services. Information regarding financial data by segment is set forth in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in Note 13, Business Segments, in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10-K. 9 Clients As of December 31, 2014, approximately 180,000 physicians, 2,500 hospitals, and 13,000 post-acute facilities use our products and services. Our clients, including some of the most prestigious medical groups and hospitals in the United States, often serve as a reference source for prospective clients who are interested in purchasing our solutions. No single client accounted for more than 10% of our revenue in the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012. Research and Development Rapid innovation characterizes the healthcare IT industry. We believe our ability to compete successfully depends heavily on our ability to ensure a continual and timely flow of competitive products, services, and technologies to the markets in which we operate. Because of this, we continue to invest heavily into our research and development efforts. These efforts are primarily focused on developing new solutions as well as new features and enhancements to our existing solutions, which we believe will ensure that our solutions comply with continually evolving regulatory requirements and create additional opportunities to connect our systems to the healthcare community. We have also expanded our software development efforts in India, which we believe will enable us to respond more efficiently and cost-effectively to changes in our software design and product development strategy. Our total gross research and development spending was approximately $233.5 million, $241.8 million, and $205.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively. These amounts consist of research and development expenses of $192.8 million, $199.8 million, and $162.1 million, and capitalized software development costs of $40.7 million, $42.0 million, and $43.0 million, for each of these periods respectively. We expense research and development expenses as incurred, and we capitalize software development costs incurred from the time technological feasibility of the software is established, or when the preliminary project phase is completed in the case of internal use software, until the software is available for general release. Non-capitalizable research and development costs and other software maintenance costs are expensed as incurred. Competition The markets for our solutions and services are highly competitive, and are characterized by rapidly evolving technology and solution standards, as well as frequent introduction of new solutions and services. Some of our competitors may be more established, benefit from greater name recognition, and have substantially greater financial, technical, and marketing resources than we do. Additionally, many of our prospective clients have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to implement and integrate competing solutions to ours. As a consequence, they may be reluctant or unwilling to migrate to our solutions. Third-party developers may be reluctant to build application services on our platform since they have invested in other competing technology platforms. We compete primarily with numerous types of organizations, including developers of revenue cycle and practice management solutions, large system integrators, electronic prescribing solutions, ambulatory and acute care EHR solutions, emergency department information systems, population health management technology, analytics systems, care management solutions, post-acute discharge management solutions, and homecare EHR solutions. We generally compete on the basis of several factors, including breadth and depth of services (including our open architecture and the level of solution integration across care settings), reputation, reliability, accuracy, security, client service, price, and industry acceptance, expertise and experience. Our principal existing competitors in these markets include, but are not limited to: AmazingCharts.com, Inc., Aprima Medical Software, athenahealth Inc., Cerner Corporation, Computer Programs and Systems Inc., CureMD Healthcare, Curaspan Health Group, eClinicalWorks LLC, Emdeon, Epic Systems Corporation, GE Healthcare Technologies, GE Management Systems, Healthagen, Healthland, Inc., Homecare Homebase (now controlled by Hearst Corporation), Infor-Med Medical Information Systems Inc., McKesson Corporation, MEDHOST, Inc., Medical Information Technology, Inc. (Meditech), Midas+, NextTech Systems, Optum (a division of United HealthCare Corporation), PracticeFusion, Inc., Quadramed, Quality Systems, Inc., Quest Diagnostics, Roper Industries, T-System, The Trizetto Group, Inc. (a division of Cognizant Technology Solutions, Inc.), Vitera Healthcare Solutions and Wellsoft Corporation. 10 Backlog We had a contract backlog of $3.4 billion as of both December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Contract backlog represents the value of bookings, client renewals, transaction fees and maintenance contracts that have not yet been recognized as revenue. Of the $3.4 billion of contract backlog as of December 31, 2014, $158 million related to system sales, $230 million related to professional services, $858 million related to software maintenance, and $2.2 billion related to transaction processing and other services. We estimate that approximately 35% of our aggregate contract backlog as of December 31, 2014 will be recognized as revenue during 2015. Intellectual Property We rely on a combination of trademark, copyright, trade secret, and patent laws in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. We also enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements with our employees, consultants, and other third parties and control access to software, documentation, and other proprietary information. Many of our products include intellectual property obtained from third parties. For example: Many of our products are built on technology provided by Microsoft Corporation, such as the Microsoft SQL Server information platform, the Microsoft .NET Framework, and the Microsoft Azure cloud platform. We license content from companies such as Wolters Kluwer Health, Intelligent Medical Objects and Adheris, an inVentiv Health company, which we incorporate or use in certain solutions. We have a strategic partnership with Nuance Communications, which allows us to use its Dragon Medical speech recognition products, and we have a strategic partnership with M*Modal (formerly known as MedQuist Inc.), which allows us to use its CDS Interactive Speech Recognition Applications, in each case with our suite of EHR applications. It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of our products and services. While we have generally been able to obtain licenses on commercially reasonable terms in the past, there is no guarantee that we can obtain such licenses in the future on reasonable terms or at all. Because of continuous healthcare IT innovation, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is possible that certain components of our solutions may unknowingly infringe upon an existing patent or other intellectual property rights of others. Occasionally, we have been notified that we may be infringing certain patent or other intellectual property rights of third parties. Geographic Information Historically, the majority of our clients and revenue have been associated with North America, where we have clients in the United States and Canada. While we remain focused on the North American market, which we expect will continue to drive our revenue in the future, we believe that there are opportunities for us globally as other countries face similar challenges of controlling healthcare costs while improving the quality and efficiency of health care delivery. As a result, we have increased our efforts to selectively expand the sales of many of our solutions outside of North America, primarily in the United Kingdom, the Middle East, Asia, and Australia. In July 2014, we acquired Oasis Medical Solutions Limited, a provider of patient administration systems (PAS) in the United Kingdom. This acquisition enables us to offer integrated workflow between PAS and clinical solutions and the benefit of one business partner that provides a single-source electronic patient record to improve the efficiency and quality of healthcare delivery. During the year ended December 31, 2014, our domestic and international sales accounted for 96% and 4%, respectively, of our total revenue. Information regarding financial data by geographic segment is set forth in Note 15, Geographic Information, in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10-K. Employees As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately 7,200 employees worldwide. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement or are represented by a labor union. 11 Available Information Copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), are filed with the SEC. We are subject to the informational requirements of the Exchange Act and we file or furnish reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. Such reports and information are available free of charge at our website at investor.allscripts.com as soon as reasonably practicable following our filing of any of these reports with the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials filed by us with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Furthermore, our references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 12 Item 1A. Risk Factors The following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Form 10-K or elsewhere. The following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10-K. These are not the only risks and uncertainties that we face. Our business, financial condition, operating results, and stock price can be materially and adversely affected by a number of factors, whether currently known or unknown, including, but not limited to, those described below. Any one or more of such factors could directly or indirectly cause our actual financial condition and operating results to vary materially from our past or anticipated future financial condition or operating results. Because of the following factors, as well as other factors affecting our financial condition and operating results, past financial performance should not be considered a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks Related to Our Industry Markets for our products and services are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change, and we may be unable to compete effectively in these markets. The market for our products and services is intensely competitive and is characterized by rapidly evolving technology and product standards, technology and user needs and the frequent introduction of new products and services. Some of our competitors may be more established, benefit from greater name recognition and have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us. Moreover, we expect that competition will continue to increase as a result of potential incentives provided by government programs and as a result of consolidation in both the IT and healthcare industries. If one or more of our competitors or potential competitors were to merge or partner with another of our competitors, the change in the competitive landscape could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. We compete on the basis of several factors, including: breadth and depth of services, including our open architecture and the level of product integration across care settings; compliance with regulatory programs; reputation; reliability, accuracy and security; client service; price; and industry acceptance, expertise and experience. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that the competitive pressures that we face will not materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. Consolidation in the healthcare industry could adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. Many healthcare provider organizations are consolidating to create integrated healthcare delivery systems with greater market power. As provider networks and managed care organizations consolidate, thus decreasing the number of market participants, competition to provide products and services like ours will become more intense, and the importance of establishing and maintaining relationships with key industry participants will become greater. These industry participants may try to use their market power to negotiate price reductions for our products and services. Further, consolidation of management and billing services through integrated delivery systems may decrease demand for our products. Any of these factors could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, and operating results. 13 We are subject to a number of existing laws, regulations and industry initiatives and we are susceptible to a changing regulatory environment. As a participant in the healthcare industry, our operations and relationships, and those of our clients, are regulated by a number of federal, state and local governmental entities. The impact of this regulation on us is direct, to the extent we are ourselves subject to these laws and regulations, and is also indirect, both in terms of the level of government reimbursement available to our clients and in that, in a number of situations, even if we are not directly regulated by specific healthcare laws and regulations, our products must be capable of being used by our clients in a manner that complies with those laws and regulations. The ability of our clients to do so could affect the marketability of our products or our compliance with our client contracts, or even expose us to direct liability under the theory that we had assisted our clients in a violation of healthcare laws or regulations. Because our business relationships with physicians, hospitals and other provider clients are unique and the healthcare IT industry as a whole is relatively young, the application of many state and federal regulations to our business operations and to our clients is uncertain. In the U.S., there are federal and state privacy and security laws; fraud and abuse laws, including anti-kickback laws and limitations on physician referrals; numerous quality measurement programs being adopted by our clients; and laws related to distribution and marketing, including off-label promotion of prescription drugs, which may be directly or indirectly applicable to our operations and relationships or the business practices of our clients. It is possible that a review of our business practices or those of our clients by courts or regulatory authorities could result in a determination that could adversely affect us. Furthermore, as we expand our business globally, we become subject to comparable laws and regulations in each non-U.S. jurisdiction in which we operate, which creates additional risks. See the risk factor entitled Our business is subject to the risks of global operations below for more information. In addition, the healthcare regulatory environment may change in a way that restricts our existing operations or our growth. The healthcare industry generally and the EHR industry specifically are expected to continue to undergo significant legal and regulatory changes for the foreseeable future, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We cannot predict the effect of possible future enforcement, legislation and regulation. Specific risks include, but are not limited to, risks relating to: Healthcare Fraud. Federal and state governments continue to enhance regulation of and increase their scrutiny over practices involving healthcare fraud perpetrated by healthcare providers and professionals whose services are reimbursed by Medicare, Medicaid and other government healthcare programs. The healthcare industry is subject to laws and regulations on fraud and abuse which, among other things, prohibit the direct or indirect payment or receipt of any remuneration for patient referrals, or for the purchase or order, or arranging for or recommending referrals or purchases, of any item or service paid for in whole or in part by these federal or state healthcare programs. Several areas directly related to the use of EHRs may be discussed and/or acted upon by the investigatory bodies within federal and state governments. Federal enforcement personnel have substantial funding, powers and remedies to pursue suspected or perceived fraud and abuse. Moreover, both federal and state laws forbid bribery and similar behavior. Any determination by a regulatory, prosecutorial or judicial authority that any of our activities involving our clients, vendors or channel partners violate any of these laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, require us to change or terminate some portions of our business, require us to refund a portion of our license or service fees and disqualify us from providing services to clients doing business with government programs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Even an unsuccessful challenge by regulatory or prosecutorial authorities of our activities could result in adverse publicity, could require a costly response from us and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Patient Information. As part of the operation of our business, we may have access to or our clients may provide to us individually-identifiable health information related to the treatment, payment, and operations of providers practices. Government and industry legislation and rulemaking, especially HIPAA, HITECH and standards and requirements published by industry groups such as the Joint Commission require the use of standard transactions, standard identifiers, security and other standards and requirements for the transmission of certain electronic health information. National standards and procedures under HIPAA include the Standards for Electronic Transactions and Code Sets (the Transaction Standards); the Security Standards (the Security Standards); and the Standards for Privacy of Individually Identifiable Health Information (the Privacy Standards). The Transaction Standards require the use of specified data coding, formatting and content in all specified Health Care Transactions conducted electronically. The Security Standards require the adoption of specified types of security measures for certain electronic health information, which is called Protected Health Information (PHI). The Privacy Standards grant a number of rights to individuals as to their Protected Health Information and restrict the use and disclosure of Protected Health Information by Covered Entities, defined as health plans, health care providers, and health care clearinghouses. Entities that perform services to or on behalf of Covered Entities where PHI is or is likely to be accessed are called Business Associates. 14 We believe we are a Covered Entity due to our acting as a health care clearinghouse through our provision of Allscripts Payerpath due to its filing of electronic healthcare claims on behalf of healthcare providers that are subject to HIPAA and HITECH. We also believe that we are a Business Associate. Recent modifications to the HIPAA Privacy, Security, Breach Notification, and Enforcement Rules impose additional obligations and burdens on covered Entities, business associates, and their subcontractors relating to the privacy and security of PHI. Much of the Privacy Standards and all of the Security Standards now apply directly to Business Associates and their subcontractors. These new rules may increase the cost of compliance and could subject us to additional enforcement actions, which could further increase our costs and adversely affect the way in which we do business. In addition, certain provisions of the Privacy Standards and Security Standards apply to third parties that create, access, or receive PHI in order to perform a function or activity on behalf of a Covered Entity. Such third parties are called Business Associates. Covered Entities and Business Associates must enter a written Business Associate Agreement, containing specified written satisfactory assurances, consistent with the Privacy and Security Standards and HITECH and its implementing regulations, that the third party will safeguard PHI that it creates or accesses and will fulfill other material obligations. Most of our clients are Covered Entities, and we function in many of our relationships as a Business Associate of those clients. Under the HIPAA Omnibus Rule, Business Associates may be held directly liable for violations of HIPAA. Therefore, we could face liability under our Business Associate Agreements and HIPAA and HITECH if we do not comply with our Business Associate obligations and applicable provisions of the Privacy and Security Standards and HITECH and its implementing regulations. The penalties for a violation of HIPAA or HITECH are significant and could have an adverse impact upon our business, financial condition and operating results, if such penalties ever were imposed. Subject to the discussion set forth above, we believe that the principal effects of HIPAA are, first, to require that our systems be capable of being operated by us and our clients in a manner that is compliant with the Transaction, Security and Privacy Standards and, second, to require us to enter into and comply with Business Associate Agreements with our Covered Entity clients. For most Covered Entities, the deadlines for compliance with the Privacy Standards and the Transaction Standards occurred in 2003, and for the Security Standards in 2005, and for the HIPAA Omnibus Rule in 2013. Additionally, Covered Entities that are providers are required to adopt a unique standard National Provider Identifier, or NPI, for use in filing and processing healthcare claims and other transactions. Most Covered Entities were required to use NPIs in standard transactions by 2007. We have policies and procedures that we believe comply with federal and state confidentiality requirements for the handling of PHI that we receive and with our obligations under Business Associate Agreements. In particular, we believe that our systems and products are capable of being used by our clients in compliance with the Transaction, Security and Privacy Standards and are capable of being used by or for our clients in compliance with the NPI requirements. If, however, we do not follow those procedures and policies, or they are not sufficient to prevent the unauthorized disclosure of PHI, we could be subject to civil and/or criminal liability, fines and lawsuits, termination of our client contracts or our operations could be shut down. Moreover, because all HIPAA Standards and HITECH implementing regulations and guidance are subject to change or interpretation, we cannot predict the full future impact of HIPAA, HITECH or their implementing regulations on our business and operations. In the event that HIPAA, HITECH or their implementing regulations change or are interpreted in a way that requires any material change to the way in which we do business, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. Additionally, certain state privacy laws are not preempted by HIPAA and HITECH and may impose independent obligations upon our clients or us. Additional legislation governing the acquisition, storage and transmission or other dissemination of health record information and other personal information, including social security numbers and other identifiers, continues to be proposed and come into force at the state level. There can be no assurance that changes to state or federal laws will not materially restrict the ability of providers to submit information from patient records using our products and services. 15 Electronic Prescribing. The use of our software by physicians to perform a variety of functions, including electronic prescribing, which refers to the electronic routing of prescriptions to pharmacies and the ensuing dispensation, is governed by state and federal law, including fraud and abuse laws. States have differing prescription format requirements, which we have programmed into our software. Many existing laws and regulations, when enacted, did not anticipate methods of e-commerce now being developed. There is also significant variation in the laws and regulations governing prescription activity, as federal law and the laws of many states permit the electronic transmission of certain controlled prescription orders, while the laws of several states neither specifically permit nor specifically prohibit the practice. Restrictions exist at the Federal level, however, on the use of electronic prescribing for controlled substances and certain other drugs, including a new regulation enacted by the Drug Enforcement Association in mid-2010. Given the rapid growth of electronic transactions in healthcare, and particularly the growth of the Internet, we expect many additional states to directly address these areas with regulation in the near future. In addition, the HHS published its final E-Prescribing and the Prescription Drug Program regulations in 2005 (effective January 1, 2006), and final regulations governing the standards for electronic prescribing under Medicare Part D in 2008 (effective June 6, 2008) (the ePrescribing Regulations). These regulations are required by the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (MMA). The E-prescribing Regulations consist of detailed standards and requirements, in addition to the HIPAA Standard discussed above, for prescription and other information transmitted electronically in connection with a drug benefit covered by the MMAs Prescription Drug Benefit. These standards cover not only transactions between prescribers and dispensers for prescriptions but also electronic eligibility and benefits inquiries and drug formulary and benefit coverage information. The standards apply to prescription drug plans participating in the MMAs Prescription Drug Benefit. Other rules governing electronic prescribing apply to other areas of Medicare and to Medicaid. The Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 (MIPPA) authorized a new and separate incentive program for individual eligible professionals who are successful electronic prescribers as defined by MIPPA (the ePrescribing Incentive Program), as well as a set of penalties for those not transmitting a minimum number of electronic prescriptions or participating in the Meaningful Use program. This incentive program is separate from and is in addition to the quality reporting incentive program authorized by Division B of the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006Medicare Improvements and Extension Act of 2006 and which is now known as the Physician Quality Reporting System (PQRS). Eligible professionals do not need to participate in PQRS to participate in the ePrescribing Incentive Program. Both programs were in effect throughout 2014 and remain in effect for 2015, with both applying payment adjustments to non-participating providers. To the extent that these new initiatives and regulations foster the accelerated adoption of electronic prescribing, our business benefits from these incentive programs. However, HITECH is the most prominent incentive program since its passage, reducing the impact the MIPPA and PQRS programs have in spurring greater adoption of electronic prescribing or other healthcare IT. In general, regulations in this area impose certain requirements which can be burdensome and evolve regularly, meaning that any potential benefits may be reversed by a newly-promulgated regulation that adversely affects our business model. Aspects of our clinical products are affected by such regulation because of the need of our clients to comply, as discussed above, and we expect this will continue for the foreseeable future. We also are subject, as discussed above, to future legislation and regulations concerning the development and marketing of healthcare software systems or requirements related to product functionality. These could increase the cost and time necessary to market new services and could affect us in other respects not presently foreseeable. Electronic Health Records. A number of important federal and state laws govern the use and content of EHRs, including fraud and abuse laws that may affect the donation of such technology. As a company that provides EHRs to a variety of providers of healthcare, our systems and services must be designed in a manner that facilitates our clients compliance with these laws. We cannot predict the content or effect of possible changes to these laws or new federal and state laws that might govern these systems and services. Furthermore, several of our products are certified by an ONC-approved certifying body as meeting the standards for functionality, interoperability and security under HITECH. Our failure to maintain this certification or otherwise meet industry standards could adversely impact our business. Under HITECH, eligible healthcare professionals and hospitals may qualify for Medicare and Medicaid payment for the meaningful use of certified EHR technology that meets specified objectives under the Meaningful Use program. Many of our products have been certified as compliant complete EHRs or compliance modules, in accordance with the applicable certification criteria set forth by the Secretary of HHS, including the 2014 EHR Certification Edition criteria (the 2014 Edition). Such certification does not represent an endorsement of our products or modules by HHS or a guaranty of the receipt of incentive payments by our clients. If our clients do not receive or lose expected incentive payments, this could harm their willingness to purchase future products or upgrades, and therefore could have an adverse effect on our future revenues. 16 We expect to see new, complex regulatory requirements in the future, including requirements related to Stage 3 meaningful use certification and voluntary regulations creating the 2017 Edition criteria. Even if our clients are not obligated to upgrade their products to remain compliant with Meaningful Use, they may desire to do so, and our failure to cause our products to maintain the applicable certifications could put us at a disadvantage to our competitors products. The possibility also exists that the regulations for the third stage of Meaningful Use and the 2017 Edition certification requirements will not allow sufficient time between promulgation and the deadlines, leading to challenges with development and deployment to clients similar to what was experienced by the industry in 2014. We may incur additional costs in designing new upgrades and products and redesigning existing products to comply with these new requirements, which could also divert resources from our other research and development priorities. There also exist several other programs run by federal and state governments, private payers, or other non-governmental organizations, such as the National Committee for Quality Assurance, that lead our clients to request advanced product functionality from our products in order to participate in voluntary pay-for-value programs, such as Patient Centered Medical Home initiatives. These requirements are evolving and are not coordinated by these parties, which could cause us to expend additional resources to assist our clients. Claims Transmission. Our system electronically transmits medical claims by physicians to patients payers for approval and reimbursement. In addition, we offer revenue cycle management services that include the manual and electronic processing and submission of medical claims by physicians to patients payers for approval and reimbursement. Federal law provides that it is both a civil and a criminal violation for any person to submit, or cause to be submitted, a claim to any payer, including, without limitation, Medicare, Medicaid and all private health plans and managed care plans, seeking payment for any services or products that overbills or bills for items that have not been provided to the patient. We have in place policies and procedures that we believe assure that all claims that are transmitted by our system and through our services are accurate and complete, provided that the information given to us by our clients is also accurate and complete. If, however, we do not follow those procedures and policies, or they are not sufficient to prevent inaccurate claims from being submitted, we could be subject to liability. As discussed above, the HIPAA Transaction and Security Standards also affect our claims transmission services, since those services must be structured and provided in a way that supports our clients HIPAA compliance obligations. Furthermore, to the extent that there is some type of information security breach, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Medical Devices. Certain computer software products are regulated as medical devices under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. The FDA may become increasingly active in regulating computer software intended for use in healthcare settings. Depending on the product, we could be required to notify the FDA and demonstrate substantial equivalence to other products on the market before marketing such products or obtain FDA approval by demonstrating safety and effectiveness before marketing a product. Depending on the intended use of a device, the FDA could require us to obtain extensive data from clinical studies to demonstrate safety or effectiveness or substantial equivalence. If the FDA requires these data, we could be required to obtain approval of an investigational device exemption before undertaking clinical trials. Clinical trials can take extended periods of time to complete. We cannot provide assurances that the FDA would approve or clear a device after the completion of such trials. In addition, these products would be subject to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Acts general controls. The FDA can impose extensive requirements governing pre- and post-market conditions like approval, labeling and manufacturing, as well as governing product design controls and quality assurance processes. Failure to comply with FDA requirements can result in criminal and civil fines and penalties, product seizure, injunction, and civil monetary policieseach of which could have an adverse effect on our business. Health Reform. The PPACA and any future repeal and replacement of the Sustainable Growth Rate may have an impact on our business. The PPACA contains various provisions which may impact us and our clients, and any replacement for the Sustainable Growth Rate would be oriented around the collection and analysis of quality measurement data from our clients. Some of these provisions (including ACOs and the Comprehensive Primary Care Initiative) may have a positive impact by requiring the expanded use of EHRs and analytics tools to participate in certain federal programs, for example, while others, such as those mandating reductions in reimbursement for certain types of providers, may have a negative impact by reducing the resources available to purchase our products. Increases in fraud and abuse enforcement and penalties may also adversely affect participants in the healthcare sector, including us. Additionally, conversations continue in the U.S. Congress around the Medicare Sustainable Growth Rate reimbursement model and possible replacement payment methodologies, some of which would further encourage the adoption of healthcare IT in order to satisfy possible new requirements tying the report of quality measurements to the receipt of payment through Medicare but which also currently raise ambiguity among physician populations and healthcare organizations. 17 Implementation of ICD-10 Coding for Medical Coding. CMS has mandated that all providers, payers, clearinghouses and billing services implement the use of new patient codes for reporting medical diagnosis and inpatient procedures, referred to as the ICD-10 codes, on or before October 1, 2015. CMS is requiring all providers, payers, clearinghouses, and billing services to utilize these ICD-10 codes when submitting claims for payment. ICD-10 codes will affect diagnosis and inpatient procedure coding for everyone covered by HIPAA, not just those who submit Medicare or Medicaid claims. Claims for services provided on or after October 1, 2015 must use ICD-10 codes for medical diagnosis and inpatient procedures or they will not be paid. If our products and services do not accommodate CMS mandates at any future date, clients may cease to use those products and services that are not compliant or may choose alternative vendors and products that are compliant, which could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, and operating results. Increased government involvement in healthcare could materially and adversely impact our business. U.S. healthcare system reform at both the federal and state level could increase government involvement in healthcare, reconfigure reimbursement rates and otherwise change the business environment of our clients and the other entities with which we have a business relationship. We cannot predict whether or when future healthcare reform initiatives at the federal or state level or other initiatives affecting our business will be proposed, enacted or implemented or what impact those initiatives may have on our business, financial condition or operating results. Our clients and the other entities with which we have a business relationship could react to these initiatives and the uncertainty surrounding these proposals by curtailing or deferring investments, including those for our products and services. The government has signaled increased enforcement activity targeting healthcare fraud and abuse, which could adversely impact our business, either directly or indirectly. To the extent that our clients, most of whom are providers, may be affected by this increased enforcement environment, our business could correspondingly be affected. Additionally, government regulation could alter the clinical workflow of physicians, hospitals and other healthcare participants, thereby limiting the utility of our products and services to existing and potential clients and curtailing broad acceptance of our products and services. Further examples of government involvement could include requiring the standardization of technology relating to EHRs, providing clients with incentives to adopt EHR solutions or developing a low-cost government sponsored EHR solution. Additionally, certain safe harbors to the federal anti-kickback statute and corresponding exceptions to the federal Ethics in Patient Referrals Act, known as the Stark law, may continue to alter the competitive landscape. These safe harbors and exceptions are intended to accelerate the adoption of electronic prescription systems and EHR systems, and therefore provide new and attractive opportunities for us to work with hospitals and other donors who wish to provide our solutions to physicians. At the same time, such safe harbors and exceptions may result in increased competition from providers of acute EHR solutions, whose hospital clients may seek to donate their existing acute EHR solutions to physicians for use in ambulatory settings. If the electronic healthcare information market fails to develop as quickly as expected, our business, financial condition, and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. The electronic healthcare information market is rapidly evolving. A number of market entrants have introduced or developed products and services that are competitive with one or more components of the solutions we offer. We expect that additional companies will continue to enter this market, especially in response to recent government subsidies. In new and rapidly evolving industries, there is significant uncertainty and risk as to the demand for, and market acceptance of, recently introduced products and services. Because the markets for our products and services are new and evolving, we are not able to predict the size and growth rate of the markets with any certainty. If markets fail to develop, develop more slowly than expected or become saturated with competitors, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely impacted. We may not see the benefits of government programs initiated to accelerate the adoption and utilization of health IT. While government programs have been initiated to improve the efficiency and quality of the healthcare sector, including expenditures to stimulate business and accelerate the adoption and utilization of healthcare technology, we may not receive any more of those funds. For example, the passage of HITECH authorized approximately $30 billion in expenditures, including discretionary funding, to further the adoption of EHRs. However, with most of those funds expended, there can be no certainty that any additional planned financial incentives, if made, will be made in regard to our services, nor can there be any assurance that HITECH will not be repealed or amended in a manner that would be unfavorable to our business. We also cannot predict the speed at which physicians will adopt EHR systems in response to such government incentives, whether physicians will select our products and services, or whether physicians will implement an EHR system at all, whether in response to government funding or at all. If the expected outcomes with respect to government programs do not materialize, or if physicians do not respond to such programs as expected, then this could materially and adversely impact our revenue growth, financial condition, and operating results. 18 Changes in interoperability and other regulatory standards applicable to our software could require us to incur substantial additional development costs. Our clients and the industry leaders enacting regulatory requirements are concerned with, and often require, that our software solutions be interoperable with other third party health IT suppliers. Market forces or governmental authorities have created and could continue to create software interoperability standards that could apply to our solutions, and if our applicable products or services are not consistent with those standards, we could be forced to incur substantial additional development costs. We will likely incur increased development costs in delivering solutions to upgrade our software and healthcare devices to be in compliance with these varying and evolving standards, and delays may result in connection therewith. If our applicable products or services are not consistent with these evolving standards, our market position and sales could be adversely affected and we may have to invest significantly in changes to our software solutions, which could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. Risks Related to Our Company The realignment of our sales, services, and support organizations could adversely affect client relationships and affect our future growth. We periodically make adjustments to our sales, services, and support organizations in response to market opportunities, management changes, product introductions, and other internal and external considerations. These changes could result in a temporary lack of focus and reduced productivity. In addition, these adjustments could result in our clients experiencing a change in our employees with whom they interact. Any of these changes could adversely impact individual client relationships, client retention, and sales of products and services to existing clients. It is also possible that these changes could adversely affect our ability to sell our products and services to new clients. Any such events could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, and operating results. Our clients may not accept our products and services or may delay decisions whether to purchase our products and services. Our business model depends on our ability to sell our products and services. Acceptance of our products and services may require our clients to adopt different behavior patterns and new methods of conducting business and exchanging information. We cannot provide assurance that our clients will integrate our products and services into their workflow or that participants in the healthcare market will accept our products and services as a replacement for traditional methods of conducting healthcare transactions. Achieving market acceptance for our products and services will require substantial sales and marketing efforts and the expenditure of significant financial and other resources to create awareness and demand by participants in the healthcare industry. If we fail to achieve broad acceptance of our products and services by physicians, hospitals and other healthcare industry participants, or if we fail to position our services as a preferred method for information management and healthcare delivery, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely impacted. It is difficult to predict the sales cycle and implementation schedule for our products and services. The duration of the sales cycle and implementation schedule for our products and services depends on a number of factors, including the nature and size of the potential client and the extent of the commitment being made by the potential client, all of which may be difficult to predict. Our sales and marketing efforts with respect to hospitals and large health organizations generally involve a lengthy sales cycle due to these organizations complex decision-making processes. Additionally, in light of increased government involvement in healthcare and related changes in the operating environment for healthcare organizations, our current and potential clients may react by reducing or deferring investments, including their purchases of our solutions or services. If clients take longer than we expect to decide whether to purchase our solutions, our selling expenses could increase and our revenues could decrease, which could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, and operating results. If clients take longer than we expect to implement our solutions, our recognition of related revenue would be delayed, which could also materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, and operating results. 19 Our future success depends upon our ability to grow, and if we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may incur unexpected expenses and be unable to meet our clients requirements. We will need to expand our operations if we successfully achieve market acceptance for our products and services. We cannot be certain that our systems, procedures, controls and existing space will be adequate to support expansion of our operations. Our future operating results will depend on the ability of our officers and employees to manage changing business conditions and to implement and improve our technical, administrative, financial control and reporting systems. We may not be able to expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate these increases. Difficulties in managing any future growth, including as a result of integrating any prior or future acquisition with our existing businesses, could cause us to incur unexpected expenses, render us unable to meet our clients requirements, and consequently could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, and operating results. We are working to expand our operations in markets outside of the U.S. There can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful. We have limited experience in marketing, selling, implementing, and supporting our products and services abroad. Expansion of our global sales and operations may require us to divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel and could result in significant expense to us, which could materially and adversely impact our operating results. We may be unable to successfully introduce new products or services or fail to keep pace with advances in technology. The successful implementation of our business model depends on our ability to adapt to evolving technologies and increasingly aggressive industry standards and introduce new products and services accordingly. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to introduce new products on schedule, or at all, or that such products will achieve market acceptance. Moreover, competitors may develop competitive products that could adversely affect our operating results. Any failure by us to introduce planned products or other new products or to introduce these products on schedule could have an adverse effect on our revenue growth and operating results. If we cannot adapt to changing technologies, our products and services may become obsolete, and our business could suffer. Because the markets in which we operate is characterized by rapid technological change, we may be unable to anticipate changes in our current and potential clients or users requirements that could make our existing technology obsolete. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to enhance our existing products and services, develop new technology that addresses the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our prospective clients and users, license leading technologies, and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices, all on a timely and cost-effective basis. The development of our proprietary technology entails significant technical and business risks. We may not be successful in using new technologies effectively or adapting our proprietary technology to evolving client or user requirements or emerging industry standards. Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, and operating results. Our business depends in part on our ability to establish and maintain additional strategic relationships. To be successful, we must continue to maintain our existing strategic relationships and establish additional strategic relationships with leaders in a number of the markets in which we operate. This is critical to our success because we believe that these relationships contribute towards our ability to: extend the reach of our products and services to a larger number of physicians and hospitals and to other participants in the healthcare industry; develop and deploy new products and services; further enhance our brand; and generate additional revenue and cash flows. Entering into strategic relationships is complicated because strategic partners may decide to compete with us in some or all of the markets in which we operate. In addition, we may not be able to maintain or establish relationships with key participants in the healthcare industry if we conduct business with their competitors. We depend, in part, on our strategic partners ability to generate increased acceptance and use of our products and services. If we lose any of these strategic relationships or fail to establish additional relationships, or if our strategic relationships fail to benefit us as expected, this could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, and operating results. 20 We have acquired and expect to acquire new companies or technologies, which are subject to significant risks. From time to time, we have made investments in, or acquisitions of, businesses, joint ventures, new services and technologies, and other intellectual property rights. We expect that we will continue to make such investments and acquisitions in the future. Investments and acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: the potential failure to achieve the expected benefits of the investment or acquisition, including the inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition or investment costs, or the inability to achieve expected synergies or cost savings; unanticipated expenses related to acquired businesses or technologies and its integration into our existing businesses or technology; the diversion of financial, managerial, and other resources from existing operations; the risks of entering into new markets in which we have little or no experience or where competitors may have stronger positions; potential write-offs or amortization of acquired assets or investments; the potential loss of key employees, clients, or partners of an acquired business; delays in client purchases due to uncertainty related to any acquisition; potential unknown liabilities associated with an investment or acquisition; and the tax effects of any such acquisitions. In addition, the success of any prior or future acquisitions will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate our existing businesses with those of the acquired company, including the integration of products and technologies. These integrations are inherently complex, costly and time-consuming processes and involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to, unanticipated expenses and the diversion of financial, managerial, and other resources from both our existing operations and those of the acquired companys. The integration of foreign acquisitions presents additional challenges associated with integrating operations across different cultures and languages, as well as currency and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. If we fail to properly evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments, or if we fail to successfully integrate acquired businesses, we may not be able to achieve projected results or support the amount of consideration paid for such acquired businesses or investments, which could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, and stock price. Finally, if we finance acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible or other debt securities or loans, our existing stockholders may be diluted, or we could face constraints related to the terms of and repayment obligations related to the incurrence of indebtedness. This could materially and adversely impact our stock price. Our products or services could fail to perform properly due to errors or similar problems. Complex technology, such as ours, often contains defects or errors, some of which may remain undetected for a period of time. It is possible that such errors may be found after the introduction of new products or services or enhancements to existing products or services. We continually introduce new solutions and enhancements to our solutions, and, despite testing by us, it is possible that errors may occur in our software. If we detect any errors before we introduce a solution, we might have to delay deployment for an extended period of time while we address the problem. If we do not discover errors that affect our new or current solutions or enhancements until after they are deployed, we would need to provide enhancements to correct such errors. Errors in our products or services could result in: product-related liabilities or patient safety issues; unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to remedy errors; harm to our reputation; lost sales; delays in commercial releases; delays in or loss of market acceptance of our solutions; license termination or renegotiations; and privacy and/or security vulnerabilities. 21 Furthermore, our clients might use our products or services together with products or services from other companies or those that they have developed internally. As a result, when problems occur, it might be difficult to identify the source of the problem. Even when our products or services do not cause these problems, the existence of these errors might cause us to incur significant costs, divert the attention of our technical personnel from our other solution development efforts, impact our reputation and cause significant issues with our client relationships. We may be unable to protect, and we may incur significant costs in enforcing, our intellectual property rights. Our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, and other intellectual property rights are important assets to us. Various events outside of our control pose a threat to our intellectual property rights, as well as to our products, services, and technologies. For instance, any of our current or future intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. Any of our pending or future patent applications, whether or not being currently challenged, may not be issued with the scope of the claims we seek, if at all. We have taken efforts to protect our proprietary rights, including a combination of license agreements, confidentiality policies and procedures, confidentiality provisions in employment agreements, confidentiality agreements with third parties, and technical security measures, as well as our reliance on copyright, patent, trademark, trade secret, and unfair competition laws. These efforts may not be sufficient or effective. For example, the secrecy of our trade secrets or other confidential information could be compromised by our employees or by third parties, which could cause us to lose the competitive advantage resulting from those trade secrets or confidential information. Unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer portions of our products or otherwise infringe upon, misappropriate, or use our intellectual property. We may not be able to discover or determine the extent of any unauthorized use of our proprietary rights. We may also conclude that, in some instances, the benefits of protecting our intellectual property rights may be outweighed by the expense. Legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability, and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain and still evolving. The laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the United States, and effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are distributed. Any impairment of our intellectual property rights, or our failure to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, could give our competitors access to our technology and could materially and adversely impact our business and operating results. Any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could also divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel and result in significant additional expense to us, which could materially and adversely impact our operating results. Finally, we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights, including with respect to legal proceedings, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, and operating results. We could be impacted by unfavorable results of legal proceedings and claims, such as being found to have infringed on a third partys intellectual property rights. We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that have not yet been fully resolved and that have arisen in the ordinary course of business, and additional claims may arise in the future. For example, companies in our industry, including many of our competitors, have been subject to litigation based on allegations of patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. In particular, patent holding companies often engage in litigation to seek to monetize patents that they have purchased or otherwise obtained. As the number of competitors, patents, and patent holding companies in our industry increases, the functionality of our products and services expands, and we enter into new geographies and markets, the number of intellectual property rights-related actions against us has increased and is likely to continue to increase. We are vigorously defending against these actions in a number of jurisdictions. If we are found to infringe one or more patents or other intellectual property rights, regardless of whether we can develop non-infringing technology, we may be required to pay substantial damages or royalties to a third party, and we may be subject to a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain products or services. Furthermore, certain of our agreements require us to indemnify our clients and third party service providers for third party intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase the costs to us of an adverse ruling on such claims, and could adversely impact our relationships with our clients and third party service providers. In certain cases, we may consider the desirability of entering into licensing agreements, although no assurance can be given that such licenses can be obtained on acceptable terms or that litigation will not occur. These license agreements may also significantly increase our operating expenses. 22 Regardless of the merit of particular claims, legal proceedings may be expensive, time-consuming, disruptive to our operations, and distracting to our management. If one or more legal matters were resolved against us in a reporting period for amounts in excess of managements expectations, our consolidated financial statements for that reporting period could be materially and adversely impacted. Such an outcome could result in significant compensatory, punitive, or other monetary damages; disgorgement of revenue or profits; remedial corporate measures; or other injunctive or equitable relief against us, any of which could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, and operating results. We maintain insurance coverage that may apply in the event we are involved in a legal proceeding or claim. This coverage may not continue to be available on acceptable terms, may not be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more claims against us, and may include larger self-insured retentions or exclusions for certain products or services. In addition, the insurer might disclaim coverage as to any future claim. This could increase the magnitude of the impact of one or more legal proceedings or claims being resolved against us. Our exposure to risks associated with various claims, including the use of intellectual property, may be increased as a result of acquisitions of other companies. For example, we may have a lower level of visibility into the development process with respect to intellectual property, or the care taken to safeguard against infringement risks, with respect to the acquired company or its technology. In addition, third parties may make infringement or related claims after we have acquired companies that had not been asserted prior to the acquisition. Our success depends on the continued service and availability of key personnel. Much of our future performance depends on the continued availability and service of our key personnel, including our President and Chief Executive Officer, the other members of our senior management team, and our other highly qualified personnel, as well as being able to hire additional highly qualified personnel who have a deep understanding of our industry. Competition in our industry for such personnel, especially with respect to sales and technical personnel, is intense. We are required to expend significant resources on identifying, hiring, developing, motivating, and retaining such personnel throughout our organization. Many of the companies with whom we compete for such personnel have greater resources than us, and may be able to offer more attractive terms of employment. Our investment in training and developing our employees makes them more attractive to our clients and competitors, who may then seek to recruit them. Furthermore, our compensation arrangements, such as our equity award programs, may not always be successful in attracting new employees and retaining and motivating our existing employees. Our failure to attract new highly qualified personnel, or our failure to retain and motivate our existing key personnel, could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, and operating results. Our content and service providers may fail to perform adequately or comply with laws, regulations or contractual covenants. We depend on independent content and service providers for communications and information services and for some of the benefits we provide through our software applications and services, including the maintenance of managed care pharmacy guidelines, drug interaction reviews, the routing of transaction data to third-party payers, and the hosting of our applications. Our ability to rely on these services could be impaired as a result of the failure of such providers to comply with applicable laws, regulations and contractual covenants, or as a result of events affecting such providers, such as power loss, telecommunication failures, software or hardware errors, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems, fire, flood and natural disasters. Any such failure or event could adversely affect our relationships with our clients and damage our reputation. This could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. We may have no means of replacing content or services on a timely basis or at all if they are inadequate or in the event of a service interruption or failure. We also rely on independent content providers for the majority of the clinical, educational and other healthcare information that we provide. In addition, we depend on our content providers to deliver high quality content from reliable sources and to continually upgrade their content in response to demand and evolving healthcare industry trends. If these parties fail to develop and maintain high quality, attractive content, the value of our brand and our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely impacted. 23 We may be liable for use of content we provide. We provide content for use by healthcare providers in treating patients. Third-party content suppliers provide certain of this content. If this content is incorrect or incomplete, adverse consequences, including death, may occur and give rise to product liability and other claims against us. In addition, certain of our solutions provide applications that relate to patient clinical information, and a court or government agency may take the position that our delivery of health information directly, including through licensed practitioners, or delivery of information by a third party site that a consumer accesses through our websites, exposes us to personal injury liability, or other liability for wrongful delivery or handling of healthcare services or erroneous health information. While we maintain insurance coverage in an amount that we believe is sufficient for our business, we cannot provide assurance that this coverage will prove to be adequate or will continue to be available on acceptable terms, if at all. A claim that is brought against us that is uninsured or under-insured could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, and operating results. Even unsuccessful claims could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and other resources. If our security is breached, we could be subject to liability, and clients could be deterred from using our products and services. Our business relies on the secure electronic transmission, storage, and hosting of sensitive information, including PHI, financial information, and other sensitive information relating to our clients, company and workforce. As a result, we face some risk of a deliberate or unintentional incident involving unauthorized access to our computer systems or data that could result in the misappropriation or loss of assets or the disclosure of sensitive information, the corruption of data, or other disruption of our business operations. Similarly, denial-of-service or other Internet-based attacks may range from mere vandalism of our electronic systems to systematic theft of sensitive information and intellectual property. We believe that, in recent years, companies in our industry have been targeted by such events with increasing frequency, primarily due to the increasing value of healthcare-related data. We have devoted and continue to devote significant resources to protecting and maintaining the confidentiality of this information, including designing and implementing security and privacy programs and controls, training our workforce, and implementing new technology. We have no guarantee that these programs and controls will be adequate to prevent all possible security threats. Any compromise of our electronic systems, including the unauthorized access, use or disclosure of sensitive information or a significant disruption of our computing assets and networks, could adversely affect our reputation or our ability to fulfill contractual obligations, could require us to devote significant financial and other resources to mitigate such problems, and could increase our future cyber security costs, including through organizational changes, deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, further training of employees, and engaging third party experts and consultants. Moreover, unauthorized access, use, or disclosure of such sensitive information could result in civil or criminal liability or regulatory action, including potential fines and penalties. In addition, any real or perceived compromise of our security or disclosure of sensitive information may deter clients from using or purchasing our products and services in the future, which could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. We use third-party contractors to store, transmit, or host sensitive information for our clients. While we have contractual relationships with these third-party contractors that require them to have appropriate security programs and controls in place and, frequently, to indemnify us for security-related breaches, any compromise or failure of these contractors security could adversely affect our reputation, require us to devote financial and other resources to mitigate these breaches, or subject us to litigation from our clients. Recently, other companies have experienced many high profile incidents involving data security breaches by entities that transmit and store sensitive information. Lawsuits resulting from these security breaches have sought very significant monetary damages, although many of these suits have yet to be resolved. While we maintain insurance coverage that, subject to policy terms and conditions and subject to a significant self-insured retention, is designed to address certain aspects of security-related risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise in our business, and we cannot provide assurance that this coverage will prove to be adequate or will continue to be available on acceptable terms. 24 We may be forced to reduce our prices. We may be subject to pricing pressures with respect to our future sales arising from various sources, including practices of managed care organizations, group purchasing arrangements made through government programs such as the Regional Extension Centers, and government action affecting reimbursement levels related to physicians, hospitals, home health professionals or any combination thereof under Medicare, Medicaid and other government health programs. Our clients and the other entities with which we have a business relationship are affected by changes in statutes, regulations and limitations in governmental spending for Medicare, Medicaid and other programs. Recent government actions and future legislative and administrative changes could limit government spending for the Medicare and Medicaid programs, limit payments to hospitals and other providers, increase emphasis on competition, impose price controls, initiate new and expanded value-based reimbursement programs and create other programs that potentially could have an adverse effect on our clients and the other entities with which we have a business relationship. If our pricing experiences significant downward pressure, our business will be less profitable and our financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Our failure to license and integrate third-party technologies could harm our business. We depend upon licenses for some of the technology used in our solutions from third-party vendors, and intend to continue licensing technologies from third parties. These technologies might not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Most of these licenses can be renewed only by mutual consent and may be terminated if we breach the terms of the license and fail to cure the breach within a specified period of time. Our inability to obtain, maintain or comply with any of these licenses could delay development until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed and integrated, which would harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Most of our third-party licenses are non-exclusive and our competitors may obtain the right to use any of the technology covered by these licenses and use the technology to compete directly with us. Our use of third-party technologies exposes us to increased risks, including, but not limited to, risks associated with the integration of new technology into our solutions, the diversion of our resources from development of our own proprietary technology and our inability to generate revenue from licensed technology sufficient to offset associated acquisition and maintenance costs. In addition, if our vendors choose to discontinue support of the licensed technology in the future or are unsuccessful in their continued research and development efforts, we might not be able to modify or adapt our own solutions. We could fail to maintain and expand our business with our existing clients or effectively transition our clients to newer products. Our business model depends on our success with maintaining our existing clients and selling new and incremental products and services to our existing clients. In addition, our success with certain clients requires our achieving interoperability between our new products and our legacy products to provide a single solution that connects healthcare providers across care settings. Certain of our clinical solutions clients initially purchase one or a limited number of our products and services. These clients might choose not to expand their use of, or purchase, additional modules. Also, as we deploy new applications and features for our existing solutions or introduce new solutions and services, our current clients could choose not to purchase these new offerings. If we fail to generate additional business from our current clients, our revenue could grow at a slower rate or even decrease. In addition, the transition of our existing clients to current versions of our products presents certain risks, including the risk of data loss or corruption or delays in completion. If such events occur, our client relationships and reputation could be damaged. Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, and operating results. Our business is subject to the risks of global operations. We operate in several countries outside of the U.S., including significant operations in India and Israel, and we are further expanding our global sales efforts. This subjects our business to risks and challenges associated with operating globally, which include: changes in local political, economic, social, and labor conditions; natural disasters, acts of war, terrorism, pandemics, or security breaches; different employee/employer relationships, existence of workers councils and labor unions, and other challenges caused by distance, language, and cultural differences; restrictions on foreign ownership and investments, and stringent foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating, or make it cost-prohibitive for us to repatriate, cash earned in countries outside of the U.S.; 25 import and export requirements, tariffs, trade disputes, and barriers; longer payment cycles in some countries, increased credit risk, and higher levels of payment fraud; uncertainty regarding liability for our products and services, including uncertainty as a result of local laws and lack of legal precedent; different or lesser protection of our intellectual property; different regulatory requirements that may apply to our products and/or how we operate; and localization of our products and services, including translation into foreign languages and associated expenses. All of the foregoing risks could prevent or restrict us from offering products or services to a particular market, could increase our operating costs, and could otherwise materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, and operating results. In addition, our compliance with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our global operations increases our cost of doing business. These numerous and sometimes conflicting laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, internal control and disclosure rules, data privacy requirements, anti-corruption laws (such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act) and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials, and antitrust and competition regulations. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in, among other things, fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, and could also affect our global expansion efforts, our business, and our operating results. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, agents, or distributors, or third parties with whom we do business, will not violate our policies. Finally, since we conduct business in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, but report our financial results in U.S. dollars, we face exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may make our products and services more expensive for our global clients, or otherwise materially and adversely impact our operating results. We may occasionally hedge our global currency exposure; however, hedging programs are inherently risky and could expose us to additional risks. We could be subject to changes in our tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities. We are subject to taxation in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Current economic and political conditions make tax rates in any jurisdiction, including those in the U.S., subject to significant change. Our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of our earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation, including changes in tax laws affecting our products and services and the healthcare industry more generally. We are also subject to the examination of our tax returns and other documentation by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. There can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. If our effective tax rates were to increase, particularly in the U.S., or if the ultimate determination of our taxes owed is for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued, then this could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. Our business and reputation may be impacted by IT system failures or other disruptions. We may be subject to IT systems failures and network disruptions. These may be caused by natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, or other events or disruptions. System redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. Such failures or disruptions could prevent access to or the delivery of certain of our products or services, compromise our data or our clients data, or result in delayed or cancelled orders as well as potentially expose us to third party claims. System failures and disruptions could also impede our transactions processing services and financial reporting. 26 War, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health issues, and other business disruptions have caused and could cause damage to the global economy, and thus have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Our business operations are subject to interruption by, among other, natural disasters, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks, and other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues, and other issues beyond our control. Such events could decrease our demand for our products or services or make it difficult or impossible for us to develop and deliver our products or services to our clients. A significant portion of our research and development activities, our corporate headquarters, our IT systems, and certain of our other critical business operations are concentrated in a few geographic areas. In the event of a business disruption in one or more of those areas, we could incur significant losses, require substantial recovery time, and experience significant expenditures in order to resume operations, which could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, and operating results. Our failure to maintain proper and effective internal controls over financial reporting could impair our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements. We maintain internal financial and accounting