Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. All forward-looking statements are necessarily only estimates of future results, and there can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from expectations. You should carefully review these risks, as well as the additional ii risks described in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In light of the significant risks and uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking information included herein, the inclusion of such information should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that such results will be achieved, and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking information, which speaks only as of the date of this report. Moreover, we operate in an evolving environment. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for our management to predict all risks and uncertainties, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual future results to be materially different from those expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. We qualify all of our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements. iii SUMMARY OF RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Below is a summary of certain material factors that could harm our business, operating results and/or financial condition, impair our future prospects, and/or cause the price of our common stock to decline. Please refer to the additional discussion of the risks summarized below in Item 1A (Risk Factors) of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which should be carefully considered, together with other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC, before making an investment decision regarding our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Financial Condition Our ability to continue as a going concern depends on, among other factors, our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to factors beyond our control. The sale of Veritone One reduced our revenue and business diversification. Our efforts to expand our aiWARE SaaS business may not be successful. The market for AI-based software applications is new and unproven and may decline or experience limited growth, and concerns over the use of AI may hinder the adoption of AI technologies. Certain of our operating results and financial metrics are difficult to predict as a result of seasonality. We may seek to acquire other companies, businesses or technologies, which could be expensive, divert our managements attention, fail to achieve the expected benefits or expose us to other risks. We have expanded our international operations, more recently in the second half of 2023 as a result of our Broadbean acquisition, which exposes us to significant risks, and we may further expand our international operations in the future through organic growth and/or non-organic growth through future acquisitions. Our business has been and may continue to be negatively affected by macroeconomic and geopolitical factors, including lingering economic disruption caused by the Russia-Ukraine conflict, the Israel-Hamas war and conflict in the surrounding regions, inflation and the responses by central banking authorities to control inflation, monetary supply shifts, the imposition of tariffs and other global trade disputes, and the threat of recession in the United States and around the world. Risks Related to the Development and Operation of Our aiWARE Platform and other Products If we are not able to enhance our existing products or introduce new products that achieve market acceptance and keep pace with technological developments, our business could be harmed. Our competitors, partners or others may acquire technologies used in aiWARE and offer them for free or make it cost prohibitive for us to incorporate those technologies into aiWARE. Partners and third party technology providers may terminate their relationship with us, adversely affecting the functionality of aiWARE. We rely on third parties to develop AI models for our platform and to integrate them with our platform. If we are not able to develop a strong brand for our aiWARE platform and other products or increase market awareness of our company and our platform and other products, then our business may be adversely affected. Interruptions or performance problems associated with our technology and infrastructure, or that of our third party service providers, including AWS and Azure, may adversely affect our business and operating results. A security breach or other security incident of our platform, networks, systems or data could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. Our ability to use our loss carryforwards may be limited. Risks Related to our Indebtedness and Liquidity Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our operations to pay our debt obligations. If we are not able to achieve certain cost synergies from our prior acquisitions, cost savings from our planned cost reduction measures, or raise sufficient capital through capital-raising transactions, we will need additional liquidity to continue our operations over the next twelve months. iv We may require additional capital to grow our business, service our debt obligations or refinance our maturing debt obligations, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. The Credit Agreement (as defined below) contains restrictive covenants that may impair our ability to access sufficient capital and operate our business. An adverse change in market interest rates could increase our interest costs on existing and future debt and could adversely affect our stock price. Risks Related to Target Markets, Competition and Customers The success of our business depends on our ability to expand into new vertical markets and attract new customers in a cost-effective manner. Historically, we have generated significant revenue from a limited number of key customers, and have recently experienced declines in revenue from one of these customers, which has resulted in a significant reduction in our revenues and may cause our revenues for future periods to be less predictable. Technological advances may disrupt the labor market and weaken demand for human capital at a rapid rate. Significant segments of the market for talent acquisition software and services may have hiring needs and service preferences that are subject to greater volatility than the overall economy. Our sales efforts related to our Software Products & Services involve considerable time and expense, and our sales cycle is often long and unpredictable. Risks Related to Intellectual Property We face risks arising from our digital content licensing services, including potential liability resulting from claims by third parties for infringement or violation of copyrights, publicity or other rights, as well as indemnification claims by rights holders and customers. We could incur substantial costs in protecting or defending our intellectual property rights, and any failure to protect our intellectual property could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our use of open source software could negatively affect our ability to sell our products or subject us to litigation. Risks Related to Regulatory Compliance We and the third parties with whom we work are subject to stringent and evolving U.S. and foreign laws, regulations, and rules, contractual obligations, industry standards, policies and other obligations related to data privacy and security. These legal and other obligations have in the past, and could in the future, require us to make changes to our business, impose additional costs on us and reduce the demand for our software products and solutions. Our actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations could also lead to regulatory investigations or actions; litigation (including class claims) and mass arbitration demands; fines and penalties; disruptions of our business operations; reputational harm; loss of revenue or profits; and other adverse business consequences. Tax authorities in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions may successfully assert that we, including our acquired companies, should have collected, or in the future should collect, sales, use, value added, or similar taxes, and we could be subject to substantial liabilities with respect to past or future transactions. Recent and proposed laws regarding the use of facial recognition technology, the processing of biometric data, and the use of AI, automated decision-making and machine learning technologies increase our compliance costs and otherwise make it harder for us to conduct our business, require us to change our business practices, may lead to regulatory investigations or actions, and could have a material adverse effect on demand for certain of our products. Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Securities and Our Public Company Operations There are additional risks related to the ownership of our securities and our public company operations discussed in more detail in item Item 1A. Risk Factors of Part I, including, but not limited to, risks concerning the volatility of our stock price, our identification of material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, our anti-takeover provisions, stockholder dilution and analysts reports about the Company. v PART I Item 1. Business. Overview Veritone, Inc. (collectively with our subsidiaries, referred to as Veritone, Company, we, our, and us) is a provider of artificial intelligence (AI) computing solutions. We are driven by the belief that AI is key to building a safer, more efficient, transparent and empowered society. Our mission is to be an active contributor to making the world better through AI. As creators of one of the worlds first AI operating systems, we are augmenting the human workforce by transforming use-case concepts into tangible, industry-leading applications and solutions. Our proprietary AI operating system, aiWARETM,uses machine learning algorithms, or AI models, together with a suite of powerful applications, to reveal valuable insights from vast amounts of structured and unstructured data. aiWARE serves as the foundation for our AI solutions and bespoke applications and offers access to hundreds of cognitive categories through one common software infrastructure. Highly modular and customizable, aiWARE enables expansive scale with the flexibility to deploy in the cloud, at the edge or in hybrid environments. Our aiWARE platform offers capabilities that are designed to mimic human cognitive functions such as perception, prediction and problem solving, enabling users to quickly, efficiently and cost effectively transform unstructured data into structured data, and analyze and optimize data to drive business processes and insights. aiWARE is based on an open architecture that enables new AI models, applications and workflows to be added quickly and efficiently, resulting in a scalable and evolving solution that can be leveraged by organizations across a range of industries. We also offer cloud-native digital content management solutions and content licensing and representation services. These offerings leverage our aiWARE technologies, providing customers with unique capabilities to enrich and drive expanded revenue opportunities from their content. We generate revenue primarily through the delivery of our Software Products & Services (as defined below) across our Commercial Enterprise (Commercial Enterprise) and Public Sector (which we formerly referred to as Government & Regulated Industries) divisions, and secondarily from Managed Services (as defined below) that today include the delivery of content licensing, influencer management and related services within Commercial Enterprise. Software Products & Services consists of revenues generated from Commercial Enterprise and Public Sector customers using our aiWARE platform and hiring solutions, any related support and maintenance services, and any related professional services associated with the deployment and/or implementation of such solutions. Managed Services consist of revenues generated from Commercial Enterprise customers using our content licensing services, representation and related services. Through October 17, 2024, we operated a full-service advertising agency through a wholly-owned subsidiary, Veritone One (as defined below), that leveraged aiWARE to provide differentiated Managed Services to our customers. On October 17, 2024, we entered into an Equity Purchase Agreement (the Purchase Agreement) with Veritone One, LLC, our wholly-owned subsidiary (Veritone One), and Oxford Buyer, LLC (Purchaser), an affiliate of Insignia Capital Group L.P., pursuant to which, among other things, Purchaser acquired from us all of the issued and outstanding equity of Veritone One (such transaction, the Divestiture). Veritone Ones services included media planning and strategy, advertisement buying and placement, campaign messaging, clearance verification and attribution, and custom analytics, specializing in host-endorsed and influencer advertising across primarily radio, podcasting, streaming audio, social media and other digital media channels. We determined that the Divestiture represents a strategic shift that will have a material effect on our operations and financial results. Therefore, the historical financial results of Veritone One are reflected in our consolidated financial statements as discontinued operations and, as such, have been excluded from continuing operations for all periods presented on a retrospective basis, unless otherwise stated. Our presence is primarily in the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Australia, Israel and India. The Market Opportunity Today, the existence of unstructured data is growing rapidly, creating significant challenges for companies and governments across the globe, including how to create systematic solutions to address the ever-increasing volume of unstructured data. Whether it is government or state and local law enforcement agencies trying to solve crimes through the analysis of unstructured video evidence, a media company searching years of television archives for specific images and video 1 content, or global employers trying to operationalize high volumes of hiring data, we believe AI is the only efficient solution to these complex data challenges. To address the ever-growing challenges surrounding unstructured data, we developed aiWARE, our proprietary AI operating system. aiWARE orchestrates AI models, together with a suite of powerful applications on a secure open platform to reveal valuable insights from vast amounts of structured and unstructured data. aiWARE offers over 20 cognitive categories. Each cognitive category is a grouping of AI models around particular cognitive functions such as perception, recognition, and text understanding, which enables users to quickly, efficiently and cost-effectively transform unstructured data into structured data, and analyze and optimize data to drive business processes and insights. Our Solution aiWARE is based on an open architecture that enables new AI models, applications and workflows to be added quickly and efficiently. This results in a scalable and evolving solution that can be easily leveraged by organizations in a broad range of industries that capture or use audio, video and other unstructured data, together with structured data, such as the media and entertainment, government, legal and compliance, and other vertical markets, driving down the cost, complexity and time to develop, deploy and distribute AI-enabled applications in their operations. Our aiWARE platform is offered primarily through a software-as-a-service (SaaS) delivery model and can be deployed in a number of environments and configurations to meet our customers needs. 2 Our aiWARE platform encompasses the following: Industry Applications. We provide numerous AI-powered applications that span local and federal government, legal and compliance, and commercial verticals. These applications search and rapidly extract actionable insight from evidence, quickly locate case-critical evidence and compliance risks, and analyze, manage, and monetize assets. Automate Studio and Developer APIs. Our aiWARE platform allows enterprise AI Leaders responsible for IT, MLOps, ModelOps, ML, data science, or digital transformation to quickly and easily create aiWARE-based AI workflows with a low-code designer and utilize aiWARE APIs directly to add content intelligence to existing legacy applications or build cloud-native or IoT apps. Intelligent Data Lake. Our customers can save, index and search data insights across cognitive categories with aiWAREs intelligent data lake, which provides time-correlated cognitive metadata indexing and enables multivariate, time-based search in applications. Developers can use this time-correlated data to trigger workflows when certain events occur. Applications and Cognitive Analytics. We have developed a suite of core applications and several industry targeted applications, which are discussed in more detail below, to facilitate the use of our platform and enable users to unlock actionable insights from their diverse datasets. The modular structure of aiWARE enables rapid development and deployment of applications, including leading large language models ("LLMs") like ChatGPT, that are relevant to the specific needs of different markets. This allows us and third parties to build and deploy new applications on top of our aiWARE architecture or integrate existing applications with aiWARE quickly and easily. Generative AI. Generative AI enables the creation of novel content from data inputs, rather than simply analyzing or acting on existing input data. Generative AI technology is currently being used across numerous industries for a variety of purposes such as simulating human conversation, producing multilingual content and ad promos and summarizing and making recommendations based on large volumes of data. With the increasing prominence of LLMs, such as Claude 3.5, Amazon Web Services (AWS) Bedrock and ChatGPT, we introduced generative AI capabilities to aiWARE in 2024. Veritone Generative AI allows organizations to leverage and create domain-specific large language models and knowledge graphs based on the data they store in aiWARE. These capabilities are available in aiWARE natively, via API, and through Automate Studio, and we plan to integrate them with our industry-specific applications in the future. aiWARE can be configured to meet each customers specific deployment requirements. These deployment models include fully cloud-based options hosted by us in AWS and Microsoft Azure (Azure) commercial and secure government cloud environments; on-premises options, which allow users to utilize aiWAREs cognitive processing and certain other capabilities in their controlled environment; and hybrid cloud/on-premises options, which give users of our on-premises capabilities the option to also connect to our services in the cloud, either to provision additional services to run within their controlled environment, or to use our additional cloud-based services to process data, search and analyze the results. We currently hold an Authorization to Operate (ATO) under the Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP) for our AWS secure government cloud platform to support government customers. Our current architecture gives us the flexibility to deploy many of aiWAREs capabilities in virtually any environment, including newer GPU architectures. We are continuing to enhance the portability of aiWARE to provide substantially all of the features and functionality of the platform within any environment to meet our customers needs. Markets in Which We Operate We serve two distinct markets: Commercial Enterprise and Public Sector. We have developed several applications and services addressing specific customer use cases within these target markets. We intend to leverage the capabilities that we have developed for these key markets to expand into other markets in the future. We have identified numerous ways in which our aiWARE platform and related AI technology may be used to extract valuable insights from large volumes of data to address real-world problems across a broad range of markets and applications. Commercial Enterprise Commercial Enterprise today consists of customers in the commercial sector, including customers across media, entertainment, sports and advertising, content licensing and Veritone Hire solutions customers. To date, the majority of our Software Products & Services and Managed Services revenue is generated from our Commercial Enterprise customers. 3 Software Products & Services Software Products & Services used by our Commercial Enterprise customers include: aiWARE. Bundled offering of our core applications which enables media broadcasters to ingest their live and archived media into aiWARE and run an array of AI models on the media to identify keywords, faces, logos and objects, enriching the content with additional metadata to allow it to be quickly and easily searched, analyzed, curated and shared in near real-time. aiWARE also includes advanced analytics features that allow users to customize their analytics dashboards and reports and generate live interactive charts with robust filtering capabilities and transforms the way these media broadcasters conduct their business by implementing AI-powered applications in their ad tracking and verification workflows, enabling them to provide advertisers with near real-time ad verification and integrated audience analytics. Digital Media Hub. Cloud-native, AI-enabled media management solution through which rights holders can ingest, manage and organize their content and offer global access to their content to key stakeholders, including news media and corporate partners, in a secure, permission-based cloud environment. Digital Media Hub offers intelligent search and discovery capabilities and robust reporting tools, which allow users to access content quickly, and allow rights holders to track downloads and understand what content is most important to users. Veritone Hire Solutions. Cloud-native software portal and applications enabling employers to attract candidates and operate programmatic advertising software to optimize the efficiency of their hiring processes. Our Veritone Hire software platform is integrated into over 120 unique applicant tracking systems and enables customers to access over 2,500 international job boards to streamline hiring efforts through job distribution, OFCCP compliance posting, candidate management, candidate search and automated posting and campaign management. Our programmatic campaigns solution, Veritone Hire Programmatic, leverages predictive AI algorithms and machine-learning to help employers save money on their job advertising and source talent faster by predicting job advertising performance and automating the execution, tracking and optimization of job advertising campaigns. In addition, Veritone Hire uses its integrations with applicant tracking systems and recruiter user data to track hiring outcomes for clients while providing them with analytics to optimize their job listing budgets. Veritone Voice. Synthetic voice solution that allows content creators and owners across numerous industries to securely create and monetize verified AI voices that can be transformed into different languages, dialects, accents and more. In addition to a self-serve application for voice projects with over 560 stock voices across 150 languages, Veritones voice solution offers Premium Voices with more than 20 recognizable voice-artist approved AI voices to license, as well as custom voice cloning, a consent-driven cloning solution using text-to-speech or speech-to-speech. Veritone Data Refinery(VDR). Comprehensive and secure software solution that empowers enterprises to integrate, analyze and understand their data for actionable intelligence. VDR enables content management, the training of internal AI models, access to data for knowledge graph applications, and the licensing of data to AI model developers. Artificial Intelligence Solutions Group ("AISG"). Professional services to help our customers address complex challenges and gain a competitive advantage by using AI-powered solutions. These services include (i) data readiness assessment and AI strategy formulation to identify opportunities for utilizing AI to streamline workflows and other business processes, (ii) data modernization services to assist customers in transitioning from legacy systems to cloud-based architectures, (iii) AI solutions development and (iv) educational bootcamps, workshops and information to help customers formulate their AI strategies and quickly scale AI from ideation to production. Managed Services Managed Servicesused by our Commercial Enterprise customers include: Content Licensing. Digital content licensing services, through which we manage and license content on behalf of leading rights holders to end users in the film, television, sports, and advertising industries. Content is licensed either through our own internally developed web portal, customer-branded web portals or other licensing arrangements. We utilize aiWAREs cognitive capabilities to enable richer and more efficient searching of content, allowing users to quickly find and acquire content for their projects. Live Event Services. Support of onsite production teams, particularly at the largest golf and tennis tournaments in the world, by ingesting live content, applying cognition and metadata and making content immediately accessible for highlights, publication, advertisements, and additional programming. 4 Representation Services. Offering of management, representation and related services to a select group of social media influencers to create content and custom marketing campaigns for brand partners and agencies. VeriAds Network. Comprised of two programs that enable radio and television broadcasters, podcasters and social media influencers to generate incremental advertising revenue from premium advertisers, and enable these advertisers to expand their audience reach through unique ad units and new influencer avenues: o Spot Network. Provides access to run-of-schedule and dayparted ad units for radio and television advertisements from broadcaster participants. o MicroMentions. On-demand live read ad unit solution that gives broadcasters the opportunity to execute 10, 15 or 30 second ads outside of their scheduled ad inventory on a guaranteed CPT (cost per thousand) basis. MicroMentions leverages aiWARE to programmatically manage clearance and verification of, and provide near real-time analytics for, these live reads. Public Sector Public Sector consists of customers in government and regulated industries, including our state, local and federal government, legal and compliance customers. To date, Public Sector represents a smaller portion of our consolidated revenue as compared to Commercial Enterprise. We believe that there are near- and long-term opportunities in Public Sector to further grow our business during fiscal 2025 and beyond. Public Sector markets include state and local government, legal and compliance markets, including law enforcement, legal and judicial professionals, and companies and regulatory bodies in highly regulated industries. Law enforcement and other government agencies regularly accumulate large amounts of unstructured audio and video data, including from police body cameras, police car recorders, interview room cameras, 911 audio tapes and surveillance cameras. Historically, in most cases, investigators have had to review audio and video data manually, a task that consumes huge amounts of time and delays investigations. In addition, public agencies are required to provide certain information, which may include audio and video files, in response to requests from the public. Reviewing video footage to identify and authenticate the appropriate footage to be disclosed, and to redact facial images and other sensitive information prior to disclosure, have historically been time-consuming and largely manual processes. Today, law enforcement and other government agencies can leverage our aiWARE platform and applications to organize, review, analyze and gain insight from their various data sources to enhance their investigative workflows and to support their public disclosure requirements. Within the legal market, our AI technologies support eDiscovery, the process of identifying, collecting and producing electronically stored information, where audio and video content analysis is playing an increasingly important role in civil litigation and criminal proceedings. Our aiWARE platforms applications and cognitive capabilities are designed to enable users to quickly search and analyze large volumes of audio files, video files, text-based documents and other electronically stored information to identify particular words, phrases, faces, objects and voices, and to redact sensitive information prior to production, increasing the speed, reducing the cost, and improving the results of discovery processes. Software Products & Services used by our Public Sector customersinclude: aiWARE Anywhere. Provides deployment options for our aiWARE platform that lets customers harness the power of AI anywhere, any time. It provides a common software infrastructure that lets customers use end-to-end, AI-powered solutions from data ingestion to intelligent data analysis in either general or industry-specific applications. aiWARE Anywhere deployment options include on-premises, in the Veritone cloud, or in a private cloud, depending on our customers needs. Investigate. Provides a central evidence hub powered by AI that accelerates investigations and increases case clearance rates. Our Investigate solution is specifically targeted to service the needs of governmental entities focused on law enforcement investigations as well as Freedom of Information Act workflows. Investigate is optimized for the specific functions carried out by law enforcement investigative agencies to help conduct criminal investigations, ensure physical security, and detect fraud. Customers using Investigate can consolidate digital evidence into one secure and compliant cloud environment, quickly identify the most relevant information for a case at scale with greater insights, streamline redaction, improve analysis and evidence discovery, and track persons of interest across files. IDentify. Enables law enforcement and judicial agencies to increase the speed and efficiency of investigative workflows. IDentify allows users to upload and maintain booking and known offender databases in aiWARE and use facial recognition technology to automatically compare these databases with video and photographic evidence, such as footage from body cameras, dash cameras and CCTV surveillance cameras, to identify potential suspects for 5 further investigation. IDentify gives agencies a powerful tool to augment their investigative workflows, saving valuable time and resources and helping them investigate cases faster. Illuminate. Provides users with an effective means of searching voluminous sets of media and electronic documents to support eDiscovery efforts, and particularly their early case assessment efforts. This application allows users to rapidly ingest, process and search large volumes of audio, video, image and text-based documents, to identify and segregate relevant evidence for further review and analysis. Illuminates text analytics capabilities allow users to visually explore entities, such as the persons, organizations and locations identified in the data. Once processed and reviewed through the application, users can transfer a relevant subset of media and documents to our Redact application if redaction is necessary or export it for transfer to their eDiscovery or case management platform for further processing and workflows. Redact. Enables law enforcement and judicial agencies to leverage AI to automate the redaction of faces and other sensitive information within audio, video and image-based evidence, streamlining their redaction workflows. Redact employs AI technology to automatically detect when persons appear in evidence for review and selection. Users can also define other sensitive items appearing in video evidence and choose to automatically track the defined items for redaction throughout the video or at a single time stamp. The application then systematically obscures selected portions of the data in the evidence. With Redact, agencies may expedite their review and redaction of evidence in a fraction of the amount of time spent on manual processes, freeing up valuable resources while supporting compliance efforts with respect to stringent disclosure requirements. Contact. Designed to reduce the time needed to comply with racial and identity profiling stop data collection requirements in certain U.S. states, including California and offers ways to gather additional insight for agency needs. Developed in close collaboration with the California State Department of Justice as well as key city law enforcement agencies, this intelligent stop data collection application may reduce officer data collection time, minimize review effort, and provide command staff faster insight for training and other constituent transparency initiatives. Track. Monitors people in video, providing insights to help assess the visual description of a person of interest in a scene, what they are doing, and who they are with. Track enables our customers to monitor multiple video recordings and feeds when dealing with occlusion within crowded areas and impacts from lighting and distance. Track tracks the human body and head, whether or not the head is turned or at an unidentifiable angle and can also track clothing or anything identifiable across multiple videos and feeds. Government, law enforcement, and justice organizations have used Track to find persons of interest from disparate video files and build an understanding of their activities and associations. This type of digital forensics can help investigators create a narrative around an event or an individual contained in a video capturing a crime or an object of interest to track. Intelligent Digital Evidence Management System (iDEMS). Built on the aiWARETM platform, iDEMS is a cloud-based product suite comprised of Veritones public sector solutions Investigate, Redact, Illuminate, Track and IDentify. iDEMS has seamless downstream workflows to centralize digital evidence, streamline redaction, improve analysis and evidence discovery, track persons of interest across all containerized content files and identify persons of interest from an existing records database. The solution also provides technical workflow integrations with many of the industrys leading software platforms and tools. Sales and Marketing Software Products & Services We conduct sales and marketing activities related to our Software Products & Services through a combination of our direct sales force and indirect channel partners such as value-added resellers (VARs), distributors, system integrators, managed services providers and referral partners. Our direct sales organization is comprised of teams of business development managers, account executives and sales managers, who are supported by sales development representatives, sales engineers, solutions architects and other inside sales personnel. These sales teams are generally organized based on their specialized knowledge and expertise within each of our target markets. Our sales team collaborates closely with our product marketing, management and development teams to evaluate and develop solutions to address the needs of customers. We have also established, and we intend to continue to expand, an indirect sales channel comprised of VARs, distributors and referral partners. We have entered into agreements with channel partners located in the United States and internationally. These agreements generally provide the channel partners with discounts below our standard prices, have terms of one year which automatically renew on an annual basis, and are generally terminable by either party for convenience following a specified notice period. Substantially all of our agreements with channel partners are nonexclusive; however, we 6 allow channel partners to register sales opportunities through our deal registration program, in which case we may grant a channel partner priority to pursue an opportunity for a specified period of time, subject to certain conditions. Managed Services We conduct sales and marketing activities relating to our digital content licensing Managed Services business through our direct sales representatives who identify, develop and manage our relationships with strategic Commercial Enterprise customers in the advertising, entertainment/documentary and network broadcasting industries. We maintain our commerce web portal, where stock content and select libraries can be licensed and downloaded directly, but the majority of our business is driven through high-value libraries that require an approval process to gain access. We also cross-sell additional products and services, including media management and aiWARE, to our content licensor partners. Until the sale of Veritone One in October 2024 pursuant to the Divestiture, we marketed and sold our advertising Managed Services through a combination of our direct sales and indirect channel sales. We primarily marketed and sold directly to advertisers through outbound sales networking and client and partner referrals. Our indirect sales channel consisted of referral partners who were mainly advertising agencies or marketing consultants. In addition to our sales efforts for new clients, our campaign strategists drove upsells and expanded sales by optimizing media spending for advertising clients. Customers Software Products & Services We market and sell our Software Products & Services to customers in the Commercial Enterprise and Public Sector markets. During 2024, no customer accounted for 10% or more of total revenues from our Software Products & Services, as compared to the prior year in which one customer accounted for 22% of total revenues from our Software Products & Services in 2023. As we continue to grow our revenues from our Software Products & Services across our markets, we believe that our dependence on any single customer or group of customers will continue to reduce. Managed Services We market and sell our content licensing Managed Services to customers such as major sports networks and film production companies that require high value content for their broadcasts and projects. During both 2024 and 2023, one customer accounted for 20% of the total Managed Services revenues. Competition Software Products & Services The market for AI-enabled solutions is rapidly evolving and highly competitive, and we face competition from various sources, including large, well-capitalized technology companies such as Google, Microsoft, Amazon, Axon and Palantir. In the case of our Veritone Hire solutions, the market for talent acquisition software and services is highly competitive, rapidly evolving and fragmented, and we face competition from programmatic job advertising software companies, traditional human capital management (HCM) companies, companies primarily focused on offering applicant tracking systems, and providers of point solutions for specific use cases such as for recruitment marketing, and these companies include, without limitation, Oracle and SAP. Our large competitors may have better brand name recognition, greater financial and engineering resources and larger sales and marketing teams than we have. As a result, these competitors may be able to develop and introduce, or acquire companies that may be able to develop and introduce, competing solutions and technologies that may have greater capabilities than ours or that are able to achieve greater customer acceptance, and they may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or customer requirements. Some customers may also be hesitant to use a new platform and prefer to upgrade products offered by their incumbent platforms for reasons including price, quality, sophistication, familiarity and global presence. In addition, we may compete with smaller competitors, including developers of AI models, who may develop their own solutions that perform similar services as our platform for specific use cases, as well as with systems integrators that aggregate and integrate cognitive solutions from multiple providers for their clients. 7 We believe the following competitive attributes are necessary for us to compete successfully in the AI industry for Commercial Enterprise and Public Sector customers for our Software Products & Services: Applications to enable our platform to be effectively leveraged for a wide variety of use cases; Breadth, depth and performance of cognitive processing and other AI capabilities, particularly accuracy and speed; Availability of cloud-based and on-premises deployment models and functionality; Ease of deployment and integration; Platform scalability, reliability and security; and Cost of deploying and using our products. We believe that we compete favorably on the basis of the factors listed above. We believe that few of our competitors currently compete directly with us across all of our cognitive capabilities and vertical markets, and that none of our competitors currently deploy an AI operating system with an open ecosystem comprised of a comparable number of multiple proprietary and third party AI models that can be accessed by customers from a single integrated platform. Competitors for our Software Products & Services fall into the following primary categories: Infrastructure-based cloud computing vendors offering cognitive processing services via APIs, such as IBM Watson via IBM Cloud, Microsoft Cognitive Services via Azure and Amazon Machine Learning via AWS; Smaller AI-focused vendors offering solutions within a single cognitive category such as facial recognition, object recognition, natural language processing or generative AI; Enterprise services and solutions providers that combine their services with technology developed in-house to address specific challenges for organizations, such as Palantir and C3.ai; System integrators that aggregate and integrate solutions from multiple underlying providers of cognitive services for clients, such as Accenture and Deloitte Consulting; and Providers of hardware and/or software solutions serving a particular market, which are incorporating into their solutions automated processing, search and/or data analytics capabilities that provide functionality similar to our industry targeted applications, including the following: o In the media and entertainment market, providers of digital asset management systems; o In the public safety market, providers of police body cameras and car recorders and associated content storage and management systems; and o In the legal market, providers of eDiscovery solutions and/or associated hosting and managed services. Managed Services We face competition from third parties for our content licensing Managed Services, including IMG, Thomson Reuters Getty Images and Shutterstock, particularly in North America; however, many content owners choose to manage the licensing of their content in-house, and content owners that we currently represent may choose to license their content directly in the future. We believe that we may face additional competition in North America if new content licensing companies emerge or expand their business in the region. As we expand our content licensing services to international markets, we believe that we may face greater competition from established content licensing and talent management companies. We believe that our ability to use the cognitive capabilities of aiWARE to enrich and enhance the searchability of content, and to leverage relationships with existing customers and vendors across our Managed Services business, gives us a competitive advantage over other content licensing companies and allows us to achieve greater benefits for content owners than they can achieve through their own in-house efforts. 8 Research and Development Our research and development organization is comprised of employees who are responsible for the design, development and testing of our AI and software solutions, including software engineers, quality engineers, data scientists, data engineers, product managers and user experience designers. Our research and development organization is generally organized in teams, with teams focused on our core aiWARE architecture and capabilities and other teams focused on solutions and applications that address specific use cases in our key markets. We focus our efforts on developing new features and expanding the core technologies that further enhance the usability, functionality, reliability, performance and flexibility of aiWARE, as well as allow us to operate in new vertical markets. In addition, we contract with select third-party engineering services to support development and quality assurance testing. We plan to continue to make significant investments in developing our AI technologies, expanding the functionality and capabilities of aiWARE and related solutions, and building new software capabilities. Intellectual Property We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as license agreements and other contractual protections, to protect our proprietary technology. We also rely on a number of registered and unregistered trademarks to protect our brand. As of March 10, 2025, in the United States, we have 34 issued patents, which expire between 2029 and 2042, and have 8 patent applications pending for examination. As of such date, we also had 16 issued patents and 3 patent applications pending for examination in foreign jurisdictions (including international PCT applications), all of which are based on counterpart U.S. patent applications pursued by us. In addition, we have registered, or have applied for registration of, numerous trademarks, including Veritone and aiWARE, in the United States and in several foreign jurisdictions. We seek to protect our intellectual property rights by implementing a policy that requires our employees and independent contractors involved in development of intellectual property on our behalf to enter into agreements acknowledging that all works or other intellectual property generated or conceived by them on our behalf are our property, and assigning to us any rights, including intellectual property rights, that they may claim or otherwise have in those works or property, to the extent allowable under applicable law. Seasonality Prior to fiscal year 2024, we experienced seasonal fluctuations in our revenue and operating performance as a result of the utilization of our platform and associated revenues from our Software Products & Services. In particular, our Veritone Hire revenues have historically been higher in the second half of each fiscal year, consistent with the hiring cycles of our larger customers. In fiscal 2024, our revenue and operating performance were less impacted by seasonal fluctuations primarily driven by a year over year decline in consumption-based revenue from a single customer across Veritone Hire. We also experience seasonality a result of factors such as the timing of large projects, the length and complexity of our sales cycles, trends impacting our target vertical markets and our revenue recognition policies and any changes we make to those policies. Within a given quarter, a higher proportion of our agreements are signed toward the end of such quarter. Although these seasonal factors are common in the technology industry, historical patterns should not be considered a reliable indicator of our future sales activity or performance. Regulatory Environment We are subject to a number of U.S. federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, including within the United Kingdom, Australia, India, Israel and parts of Europe, that involve matters central to our business. These laws and regulations govern privacy, data protection, intellectual property, competition, consumer protection and other subjects. We carry out certain processing of personal data that is subject to data protection and privacy laws in various jurisdictions including the European Union and United Kingdom General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR); the California Consumer Privacy Act, as amended (CCPA); laws regulating the use of AI, automated decision making, machine learning, and biometric technologies (including facial recognition); and similar laws and regulations in other jurisdictions, including states and localities within the United States. Under these data protection and privacy laws, we are required to maintain certain technical and organizational measures designed to ensure the security and protection of personal data and information, and we are required to comply (either directly or indirectly pursuant to requirements of our contracts with customers) with a number of requirements with respect to individuals whose personal data or information we collect and process, including, among others, notification requirements and requirements to comply with requests from individuals to (i) opt out of collection, processing and/or sale of their data or information, (ii) delete their data or information, and (iii) receive copies of and other information regarding our collection and processing of their data or information. 9 We generate revenue through contracts with U.S. federal, state, and local governments and are required to comply with evolving procurement and cybersecurity requirements, including FedRAMP. Compliance with these requirements is complex and costly, with failure or delays potentially limiting our ability to do business with government entities, which could undermine our competitive position. Maintaining FedRAMP authorization requires significant ongoing costs, including continuous monitoring, security assessments, and compliance personnel, impacting capital expenditures and earnings. Moreover, governments, regulators and individuals are increasingly scrutinizing the use of AI and machine learning technologies (including the associated processing of personal data), automated decision making (including in an employment and/or recruitment context), and the processing of biometric data (including through facial recognition technologies). In addition, numerous laws and regulations around the world, including the Colorado AI Act, various laws in California, and the EU AI Act, among others, have been enacted or proposed to regulate these areas, and several lawsuits have been filed, particularly in the United States, challenging the processing of biometric data which may reduce our customers demand for our products. Human Capital Resources As of December 31, 2024, we had a total of 487 employees, 469 of whom were full-time employees. 116 of our U.S-based employees are located in California, with another 188 employees located in 36 other states. We also have 36 employees located in Israel and 147 employees located in other countries including the United Kingdom, France, Australia and India. We believe that our employees are our greatest asset and our company culture is a critical component of our success. We strive to create a work environment in which all employees feel a strong sense of community and embody our core values. We have implemented a number of initiatives to ensure that our employees are engaged and motivated to work hard and have fun at the same time. We conduct employee engagement surveys to gauge employee satisfaction, identify areas for improvement and implement positive change to evolve and better our company culture. We strive to hire, develop and retain the top talent in the industry. To attract top talent, we offer competitive salaries, incentives, equity compensation and benefits. We conduct an annual talent review process, in which we obtain employee feedback, evaluate performance and establish goals, objectives and development plans for all employees. We continuously monitor and evaluate employee turnover to identify and address areas of concern to improve employee retention. Company Information We were incorporated as a Delaware corporation on June 13, 2014. Our corporate headquarters are located at 1615 Platte Street, 2nd Floor, Denver, Colorado 80202. Our telephone number is (888) 507-1737. Our principal website address is www.veritone.com. The information provided on, or accessible through, our website is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, nor is such information incorporated by reference herein, and such information should not be relied upon in determining whether to make an investment in our common stock. Available Information This Annual Report on Form 10-K and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are available free of charge on the investor relations section of our website at investors.veritone.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. We will also provide electronic or paper copies of such reports free of charge, upon request made to our Corporate Secretary at 1615 Platte Street, 2nd Floor, Denver, Colorado 80202. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. We use our investor relations website as a channel of distribution for important company information, including news and commentary about our business and financial performance, webcasts of our earnings calls and investor events, SEC filings, and corporate governance information, including information regarding our board of directors (our Board), our board committee charters and code of business conduct and ethics. The information provided on, or accessible through, our investor relations website is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, nor is such information incorporated by reference herein, and such information should not be relied upon in determining whether to make an investment in our common stock. 10 Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following describes the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those presented in our forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks we face but do represent those risk and uncertainties that we believe are material to our business. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also harm our business operations. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Financial Condition Our ability to continue as a going concern depends on, among other factors, our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and certain financial, business and other factors beyond ourcontrol. Based on our liquidity position at December 31, 2024 and our current forecast of operating results and cash flows, absent any other action, management determined that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern over the twelve months following the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In past fiscal quarters, based on our liquidity position at the end of such fiscal quarter and our then-current forecast of operating results and cash flows, management has determined that there has been a substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern over the twelve months following such determination, principally driven by our current debt service obligations, historical negative cash flows and recurring losses. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on our ability to service our debt obligations under the Term Loan as they become due, which, in turn, is dependent on, among other factors, our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. Any future determination that we may be unable to continue as a going concern may materially harm our business and reputation and may make it more difficult for us to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations, including through equity financings, incurring additional debt or otherwise, which in turn, may adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In the near term, to ensure we continue to meet our cash obligations as they come due, we continue to evaluate strategies to obtain funding for future operations. These strategies may include, but are not limited to, obtaining equity financing, debt and/or further restructuring of operations to grow revenues and decrease operating expenses, which include capturing past cost reduction and potential future cost synergies from our past acquisitions. For example, on October 17, 2024, we consummated the Divestiture for a total purchase price of up to $104.0 million. Net proceeds from the transaction were $55.9 million in cash, which reflected the aggregate purchase price of $104.0 million, less $18.0 million subject to an earnout described below, $20.3 million of purchase price adjustments, $6.7 million placed in escrow accounts, and $3.0 million in transaction-related expenses. In connection with the closing of the Divestiture, we used $30.5 million of the net cash proceeds from the Divestiture to repay principal on our outstanding term loan, and as of December 31, 2024, $41.2 million was outstanding under our term loan. In addition, on November 19, 2024, we entered into a sales agreement (the Sales Agreement) with Needham & Company, LLC and H.C. Wainwright & Co., LLC, as sales agents (the Sales Agents), to establish an at-the-market equity offering program (the ATM Program), allowing us to offer and sell shares of our common stock having an aggregate offering price of up to $35.0 million from time to time through the Sales Agents. As of December 31, 2024, we had issued 1,707,791 shares of our common stock under the ATM Program for aggregate gross proceeds of $4.7 million. Furthermore, on January 2, 2025, we conducted a registered direct offering (the Registered Direct Offering) pursuant to a securities purchase agreement with Esousa Group Holdings, LLC. The Registered Direct Offering included 4,414,878 shares of our common stock, priced at $2.53 per share, and pre-funded warrants to purchase up to 3,608,838 shares of our common stock priced at $2.52 per pre-funded warrant, with an exercise price of $0.01 per share. We received gross proceeds from the Registered Direct Offering of approximately $20.3 million, before deducting offering expenses. The going concern assumption contemplates the realization of assets and satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business, including the ability to meet minimum liquidity thresholds under our Credit Agreement. We may not be able to access additional equity under acceptable terms, and may not be successful in future operational restructurings, earning any of our deferred purchase consideration, meeting our minimum liquidity threshold under out Credit Agreement, or at growing our revenue base, and our ability to execute on our operating plans may be materially adversely impacted. If we are unable to capture past cost reduction and potential future cost synergies from our past acquisitions we would likely not have sufficient cash on hand or available liquidity to service our current debt obligations, and our ability to execute on our operating plans may be materially adversely impacted. If we become unable to continue as a going concern, we may have to dispose of other or additional assets and might realize significantly less value than the values at which they are carried on our consolidated financial statements. These actions may cause stockholders to be further diluted or to lose all or part of their investment in our common stock. If we receive an auditor opinion qualified by such auditors determination that there is a 11 substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern, it will result in an event of default under our Term Loan (as defined below), absent any consent or waiver by the lenders under the Credit Agreement, and may result in incremental costs to us or restrictions imposed upon us by our lenders. In March 2025, we received a consent from the lenders under our Term Loan to deliver our audited consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024 with a report from our independent certified public accountants related thereto that contained a going concern emphasis of matter. As consideration for the Limited Consent, we paid an aggregate of $1.0 million in cash to the lenders party to the Limited Consent. If we cannot continue as a going concern, adjustments to the carrying values and classification of our assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of income and expenses could be required and could be material. We recently sold Veritone One, our full-service advertising agency, which represented approximately 25% of our revenue for the twelve months ended December 31, 2024. As a result, our revenue following the sale of Veritone One has been and will continue to be reduced and our business will be less diversified. On October 17, 2024, we entered into the Purchase Agreement, pursuant to which we sold our full-service advertising agency and wholly-owned subsidiary, Veritone One, to an affiliate of Insignia Capital Group L.P. Approximately 25% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2024 was generated from Veritone One. As a result of the Divestiture, our business is focused on enterprise AI and the type of risks associated with such business. Further, immediately following the Divestiture, our business has been and will continue to generate less revenue for the foreseeable future, which may exacerbate risks related to our operations, including our ability to service our outstanding debt and finance our operations. If these difficulties or challenges cannot be overcome, our business may not be successful and the impact of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our efforts to expand our aiWARE SaaS business may not be successful. In order for us to grow our business and achieve profitability, we must expand our revenue base by expanding our customer base and increasing our business with existing customers. We may not be able to succeed with respect to these efforts. Many factors may adversely affect our ability to grow the business for our aiWARE platform, including but not limited to: Failure to add market-specific applications to our aiWARE platform with sufficient levels of capability to provide compelling benefits to users in our target vertical markets; Failure to add AI models with sufficient levels of capability or trainability into our platform, difficulties integrating AI models, loss of access to, or increases in the cost of, AI models; Inability to expand the number of AI models in different classes that can operate in a network-isolated manner, which would limit the capabilities of aiWARE available in our FedRAMP environment or under private cloud, on-premises and hybrid deployment models; Difficulties in adding technical capabilities to our platform and ensuring future compatibility of additional third party providers; Failure to articulate the perceived benefits of our solutions, or to generate broad customer acceptance of or interest in our solutions; Introduction of competitive offerings by larger, better financed and more well-known companies; Introduction of new products or technologies that have performance and/or cost advantages over our aiWARE platform; Inability to integrate our solutions with products of other companies to pursue particular vertical markets, or the failure of such relationships to achieve their anticipated benefits; Long and complex sales cycles, particularly for customers in the Public Sector markets; and Challenges in operating our platform on secure government cloud platforms and complying with government security requirements. If we fail to develop a successful business for our aiWARE platform, our business, results of operations and financial condition will suffer. 12 The market for AI-based software applications is relatively new and unproven and may decline or experience limited growth. Concerns over the use of AI, including from regulators, the public and our customers, may hinder the adoption of AI technologies, which would adversely affect our ability to fully realize the potential of our Software Products & Services. The market for AI-based software applications is still relatively new and evaluating the size and scope of the market is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. We believe that our future success will depend in large part on the growth of this market. The utilization of our platform and solutions by customers is also still relatively new, and customers may not recognize the need for, or benefits of, our platform and solutions, which may prompt them to cease use of our platform and solutions or decide to adopt alternative products and services to satisfy their cognitive computing, search and analytics requirements. Our ability to access and extend our position in the markets that our platform and solutions are designed to address depends upon a number of factors, including the cost, performance and perceived value of our platform and solutions, as well as regulatory scrutiny over our products and technologies. As AI technologies become increasingly incorporated into various mainstream products and offerings and these technologies advance and develop, regulatory scrutiny of AI technologies, potentially including our products, will likely increase. Market opportunity estimates are subject to significant uncertainty and are based on assumptions and estimates, including our internal analysis and industry experience. Assessing the market for our solutions is particularly difficult for several reasons, including limited available information and rapid evolution of the market. In addition, AI presents risks and challenges that could hinder its further development, adoption and use in the markets that we serve. AI algorithms may be flawed, datasets may be insufficient or contain biased information, and the results and analyses that our AI solutions assist in producing may be deficient, inaccurate or biased. For example, biased datasets and results could produce results that are objectionable to customers using our talent acquisition, or Veritone Hire, technologies. Further, use of AI technologies in certain scenarios present ethical concerns. For example, due to inaccuracies or flaws in the inputs, outputs or logic of our AI technology, the model could result in decisions that bias certain individuals (or classes of individuals) and adversely impact their rights, employment and ability to obtain certain services or benefits. If we enable or offer AI solutions that produce deficient or inaccurate results and analyses, or that are controversial due to human rights, privacy or other social issues, we may experience lower-than-expected demand for our products and services, or competitive, brand or reputational harm. Multiple states in the United States, as well as the European Union, have enacted or proposed legislation regulating the use of AI. These regulations include requirements for increased transparency, mandatory disclosures and the implementation of mitigating measures to address potential risks associated with AI technologies. Compliance with these laws may impose additional costs, operational adjustments, or restrictions on our use of AI, and noncompliance could result in regulatory penalties, reputational harm, or other adverse impacts. As this regulatory landscape continues to develop, new or more stringent requirements could emerge, further affecting our business operations and ability to leverage AI technologies effectively. If the market for AI-based solutions does not experience significant growth, or if demand for our platform or solutions does not increase in line with our projections, then our business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. Certain of our operating results and financial metrics are difficult to predict and subject to volatility, including as a result of seasonality. We experience quarterly variations in the timing of revenues from our Software Products & Services as a result of numerous factors, such as the timing of large projects, the length and complexity of our sales cycles and trends impacting our target vertical markets. In particular, our Veritone Hire solutions have historically experienced seasonality in terms of when we enter into customer agreements for our products and services. Consistent with the hiring patterns of many of our customers, a higher percentage of related revenue is earned in the second half of each year. Within a given quarter, a significant portion of our agreements are often signed toward the end of the quarter. This seasonality is reflected to a lesser extent in our revenue due to the fact that we generally recognize subscription revenue over the term of the customer agreement. We expect this seasonality to continue, which may cause fluctuations in certain of our operating results and financial metrics, and thus, difficulties in predictability of our operating results. We have had a history of losses and we may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability. We experienced net losses of $37.4 million and $58.6 million in fiscal years 2024 and 2023, respectively. As of December 31, 2024, we had an accumulated deficit of $467.3 million. We expect to continue to expend substantial financial and other resources on, among other things: 13 investments to expand and enhance our platform and technology infrastructure, make improvements to the scalability, availability and security of our aiWARE platform, and develop new products; sales and marketing, including expanding our direct sales organization and marketing programs, and expanding our programs directed at increasing our brand awareness among current and new customers; hiring additional employees; expansion of our operations and infrastructure, both domestically and internationally; and general administration, including legal, accounting and other expenses. These investments may not result in increased revenue or growth of our business. We may not be able to generate net revenues sufficient to offset our expected cost increases and planned investments in our business and platform. As a result, we may incur significant losses for the foreseeable future, and may not be able to achieve and sustain profitability. If we fail to achieve and sustain profitability, then we may not be able to achieve our business plan, fund our business or continue as a going concern. We may pursue the opportunistic acquisition of other companies, businesses or technologies, which could be expensive, divert our managements attention, fail to achieve the expected benefits and/or expose us to other risks or difficulties. As part of our growth strategy, we have acquired, and we may continue to acquire, businesses, services, technologies or intellectual property rights that we believe could complement, expand or enhance the features and functionality of our aiWARE platform and our technical capabilities, broaden our product and service offerings or offer growth opportunities for our business. For example, we closed on our acquisition of Broadbean in June 2023. This acquisition strategy may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur various expenses in identifying, investigating and pursuing suitable acquisitions, whether or not such acquisitions are consummated. Acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses, impairment of goodwill and/or purchased long-lived assets, and restructuring charges, any of which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition, we may face risks or experience difficulties successfully integrating acquired businesses, such as Broadbean, with our operations. These risks include: effectively managing the combined business following the acquisition, including any international operations of the acquired business and integrating the acquired companys accounting, human resources and other administrative systems, and coordination of product, engineering and sales and marketing functions; the potential loss of key employees and customers as a result of competing in the markets in which the acquired company operates; cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization, and retention of employees from the businesses we acquire; and achieving anticipated cross-selling opportunities and eliminating any redundant operations with respect to the acquired business. We also may not achieve the anticipated benefits from the acquired business and may incur unanticipated costs and liabilities in connection with any such acquisitions. Additionally, if we are unable to complete an acquisition, we could lose market share to competitors who are able to make such an acquisition. Once an acquisition is closed, we may discover hidden costs, resource demands and potential liabilities that were not evident during the due diligence process, particularly when such process is undertaken on an accelerated timeline. Although we utilize representation and warranty insurance and standard indemnity provisions in these acquisition transactions, if we are unable to successfully assert a claim, if a claim is not covered by insurance or if these hidden costs prove greater than expected, our operations as a whole may be adversely affected. In addition, a significant portion of the purchase price of companies we acquire may be allocated to acquired goodwill and other intangible assets, which must be assessed for impairment at least annually. If any of these results occurs, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. We have expanded our international operations, including in the second half of 2023 as a result of our Broadbean acquisition, which exposes us to significant risks, and we intend to continue expanding international operations going forward. In June 2023, and in conjunction with our acquisition of Broadbean, we expanded our operations into Europe and Asia Pacific. As part of our growth strategy, we may expand our operations further internationally. As of December 31, 2024, we 14 had operations in the United Kingdom, other parts of Europe, Israel, Australia and India, and we may, in the future, open offices and hire employees in additional locations outside of the United States to service existing global customers, reach new customers and gain access to additional technical talent. Operating and expanding to new international markets requires significant resources and management attention and will subject us to uncertain regulatory, international tax, international conflicts, and economic and political risks. Because of our limited historical experience with expanded international operations, as well as developing and managing sales in international markets, our international expansion efforts may not be successful. In addition, we will face risks of doing business internationally that could adversely affect our business, including, but not limited to: managing and staffing international operations and the increased operating, travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with numerous international locations; establishing and managing additional instances of our aiWARE platform in other countries; adapting, localizing and pricing our products and services for specific countries and to offer customer support in various languages; additional foreign tax requirements and obligations, and adverse tax consequences and tax rulings; economic, international conflicts and political instability in some countries; compliance with local laws, regulations and customs in foreign jurisdictions, particularly in the areas of data privacy and personal privacy, employment and tax and export controls, economic sanctions and anti-corruption laws; and limited protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations, and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business has been and may continue to be negatively affected by macroeconomic and geopolitical factors, including lingering economic disruption caused by the Russia-Ukraine conflict, the Israel-Hamas war and conflict in the surrounding regions, inflation and the responses by central banking authorities to control inflation, monetary supply shifts, the imposition of tariffs and other global trade disputes, and the threat of recession in the United States and around the world. Global economic and business activities continue to face widespread macroeconomic and geopolitical uncertainties, including lingering economic disruption caused by the Russia-Ukraine conflict, Israel-Hamas war and conflict in the surrounding regions, inflation and the responses by central banking authorities to control inflation, monetary supply shifts, the imposition of tariffs and other global trade disputes, and the threat of recession in the United States and around the world. We continue to actively monitor the impact of these macroeconomic factors on our financial condition, liquidity, operations, suppliers, industry and workforce, and instituted certain cost saving measures during 2023 and 2024 as a result of these factors. The extent of the impact of these factors on our operational and financial performance, including our ability to execute our business strategies and initiatives in the expected time frame, will depend on future developments, and the impact on our customers, partners and employees, all of which are uncertain and cannot be predicted. These and other global economic conditions, including any new disruptions, have and may again negatively impact our business. For example, we have operations and an office in Israel, and as a result of the Israel-Hamas war, a number of our employees and family members of our employees have been conscripted into military service. In addition, our Veritone Hire solutions are sold to businesses that experience performance fluctuations based on factors including the demand for labor and the economic health of current and prospective employers. To the extent that economic uncertainty or attenuated economic conditions cause our current and potential customers to freeze or reduce their headcount, demand for our products and services has been, and may continue to be negatively affected. Adverse economic conditions have also caused and could continue to result in reductions in sales of our applications, longer sales cycles, reductions in contract duration and value, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. In addition, economic recessions have historically resulted in overall reductions in spending on software and technology solutions as well as pressure from customers and potential customers for extended billing terms. If economic, political, or market conditions deteriorate, or if there is uncertainty around these conditions, our current and potential customers may elect to decrease their software and technology solutions budgets by deferring or reconsidering product purchases, which could limit our ability to grow our business and negatively affect our operating results. Any of these events would likely have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial position. 15 We depend on our executive officers and other key employees, and the loss of one or more of these executive officers or key employees or an inability to attract and retain highly skilled employees could adversely affect our business. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our Board, Ryan Steelberg, and our other executive officers and senior management. We rely on our leadership team in the areas of strategy and implementation, research and development, operations, security, marketing, sales, support and general and administrative functions. We do not currently have any employment agreements with our executive officers or senior management team that require them to continue to work for us for any specified period, and, therefore, they could terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of Ryan Steelberg, or one or more of the members of our management team, could adversely impact our business and operations and disrupt our relationships with our key customers. Our future success also depends, in part, on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. We believe that there is, and will continue to be, intense competition for highly skilled management, engineering, data science, sales, marketing and other personnel with experience in the businesses in which we operate. We must provide competitive compensation packages and a high-quality work environment to hire, retain and motivate employees. If we are unable to retain and motivate our existing employees and attract qualified personnel to fill key positions, we may be unable to manage our business effectively, including the development, marketing, sale and delivery of our products and services, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to the Development and Operation of Our aiWARE Platform and other Products If we are not able to enhance our existing products or introduce new products that achieve market acceptance and keep pace with technological developments, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Our ability to attract new customers and increase revenue from existing customers depends in part on our ability to enhance and improve our aiWARE platform and applications and introduce new products and features, including enhancements necessary to provide substantially all of the features and functionality of the platform within a private cloud or on-premises environment, as well as new applications to address additional customer use cases. The success of any enhancements or new products depends on several factors, including timely development completion, adequate quality testing, actual performance quality, market-accepted pricing levels and overall market acceptance and demand. Enhancements and new products that we develop may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner, may contain defects, may have interoperability difficulties with our aiWARE platform, or may not achieve the market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenue. If we are unable to successfully enhance our aiWARE platform and applications to meet evolving customer requirements and develop new products and applications, or if our efforts to increase the usage of our aiWARE platform are more expensive than we expect, then our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Our competitors, partners or others may acquire third party technologies used in our aiWARE platform, which could result in them blocking us from using the technology in our aiWARE platform, offering it for free to the public or making it cost prohibitive for us to continue to incorporate their technologies in our aiWARE platform, or these third party technology providers may otherwise terminate their relationships with us, which could adversely affect the functionality of our aiWARE platform. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, incorporate and maintain high performing AI models on our aiWARE platform. If any third party acquires an AI model that is on our platform, they may preclude us from using it as a component of our platform or make it more expensive for us to utilize. In addition, a third-party AI model provider may terminate its relationship with us or may otherwise cease to make its AI models available to us. In either case, if that AI model has unique capabilities or a significant performance advantage over other models and we are unable to identify a suitable replacement model, the interruption could cause us to lose customers. It is also possible that a third party acquirer of such technology could offer the AI models and technologies to the public as a free add-on capability, in which case certain of our customers would have less incentive to pay us for the use of our platform. If a key third party technology becomes unavailable to us or is impractical for us to continue to use, the functionality of our platform could be interrupted, and our expenses could increase as we search for an alternative technology. As a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected through the loss of customers and/or from increased operating costs. We rely on third parties to develop AI models for our platform and in some cases to integrate them with our platform. A key element of our aiWARE platform is the ability to incorporate and integrate AI models developed by multiple third-party vendors, and we plan to continue to increase the number of third-party AI models incorporated into our aiWARE 16 platform to enhance the performance and power of our platform. As we work to add new AI models to our platform, we may encounter difficulties in identifying additional high-quality AI models (particularly high performing, specialized models), entering into agreements for their inclusion in our ecosystem on acceptable terms or at all and/or in coordinating and integrating their technologies into our system. We may incur additional costs to modify and adjust existing functionalities of our platform to accommodate multiple classes of AI models, without the assurance that such costs can be recouped by the additional revenues generated by the new capabilities. As aiWARE becomes more complex and as we release enhancements to our platform that require changes to AI models, we may not be able to integrate third-party AI models in a seamless or timely manner due to a number of factors, including incompatible software, lack of cooperation from developers, insufficient internal technical resources, platform security constraints, and the inability to secure the necessary licenses or legal authorizations required. In addition, we have established a self-service development environment in which such third party developers integrate their AI models onto our platform, and we will be dependent in part upon their ability to do so effectively and quickly. We may not have full control over the quality and performance of third-party providers, and therefore, any unexpected deficiencies or problems arising from these third-party providers may cause significant interruptions in the operation of our platform. The failure of third party developers to integrate their AI models seamlessly into our platform and/or provide reliable, scalable services may impact the reliability of our platform and harm our reputation and business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are not able to develop a strong brand for our aiWARE platform and other products and increase market awareness of our company, platform and other products, then our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We believe that the success of our platform will depend in part on our ability to develop a strong brand identity for our Veritone, aiWARE and other service marks, and to increase the market awareness of our platform and its capabilities. We are still in the early development stage of our business and, as such, our brand is not yet well established. The successful promotion of our brand will depend largely on our continued marketing efforts and our ability to ensure that our technology provides the expected benefits to our customers. We also believe that it is important for us to be thought leaders in the AI-based cognitive computing market. Our brand promotion and thought leadership activities may not be successful or produce increased revenue. In addition, independent industry analysts often provide reviews of our platform and of competing products and services, which may significantly influence the perception of our aiWARE platform in the marketplace. If these reviews are negative or not as positive as reviews of our competitors products and services, then our brand may be harmed. The promotion of our brand also requires us to make substantial expenditures, and we anticipate that these expenditures will increase as our industry becomes more competitive and as we seek to expand into new markets. These higher expenditures may not result in any increased revenue or in revenue that is sufficient to offset the higher expense levels. If we do not successfully maintain and enhance our brand, then our business may not grow, we may see our pricing power reduced relative to competitors and we may lose customers, all of which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Interruptions or performance problems associated with our technology and infrastructure, or that of the third parties with whom we work, including AWS and Azure, may adversely affect our business and operating results. Our business success depends in part on the ability of customers to access our Software Products & Services and Managed Services at any time and within an acceptable amount of time. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, disruptions, outages and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, introductions of new applications and functionality, software errors and defects, capacity constraints due to an increasing number of users accessing our platform or initiating large volumes of processing simultaneously, or security related incidents. In addition, we rely on third parties, including AWS and Azure, to operate critical business systems and process sensitive information in a variety of contexts, including for hosting, storage and other critical services, required to operate our Software Products & Services and Managed Services. Our ability to monitor these third parties information security practices is limited, and these third parties may not have adequate information security measures in place. As such, we are vulnerable to service interruptions, delays and outages experienced or caused by these third parties, and we have experienced (and may in the future experience) adverse consequences when certain third parties with whom we work have experienced a security incident or other service interruption, delay or outage. While we believe we are entitled to damages if certain of the third parties with whom we work fail to satisfy their privacy or security-related obligations to us, any award may be insufficient to cover our damages, or we may be unable to recover such award. Because we also incorporate diverse software and hosted services from many third parties with whom we work, we may encounter difficulties and delays in integrating and synthesizing these applications and programs, which may cause downtimes or other performance problems. It may become increasingly difficult to maintain and improve the performance of our platform, especially during peak usage times and as our platform becomes more complex or 17 usage increases. Additionally, our reliance on third parties could introduce new cybersecurity risks and vulnerabilities, including supply-chain attacks. Such supply-chain attacks have increased in frequency and severity, and we cannot guarantee that third parties infrastructure in our supply chain or supply chains of the third parties with whom we work have not been compromised. Certain of our customer contracts include service level obligations, including system uptime commitments and/or required response times in the case of technical issues. If our Software Products & Services and Managed Services are unavailable or if our users are unable to access them within a reasonable amount of time or at all, we may be in breach of our contractual obligations, we may be required to issue credits or refunds to customers, and/or our customers may be entitled to terminate their contracts with us. AWS and Azure provide us with hosting, computing and storage services pursuant to agreements that may be canceled under certain circumstances. If any of our agreements with AWS or Azure is terminated, we could experience interruptions on our platform and in our ability to make our platform available to customers, as well as delays and additional expenses in arranging alternative cloud infrastructure services. Any of the above circumstances or events may harm our reputation, cause customers to stop using our platform, impair our ability to increase revenue from existing customers, impair our ability to grow our customer base, subject us to financial penalties and liabilities under our service level agreements and otherwise harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. The security or operation of our platform, networks, computer systems or data, or those of third parties with whom we work, have in the past, and may in the future, be breached or otherwise disrupted, and any such breach or other disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation. In the ordinary course of business, we process proprietary, confidential, and sensitive data, including proprietary and confidential business data, trade secrets, intellectual property, sensitive third-party data, business plans, transactions, financial information, customer data and biometric data (collectively, sensitive information). Certain data privacy and security obligations require us to implement and maintain specific security measures or industry-standard or reasonable security measures designed to protect our information technology systems and sensitive information. In particular, some of the data processed and stored in our platform, networks, and computer systems by government customers contain highly sensitive data protected under government regulations, and we are obligated to comply with stringent requirements related to the security of such data, such as FedRAMP and Criminal Justice Information Services (CJIS) security requirements. Individuals or entities have in the past and may in the future attempt to penetrate our network, computer system or platform security, or that of our third-party hosting and storage providers and other third parties with whom we work, and could gain access to our sensitive information, including customer data. Some actors now engage and are expected to continue to engage in cyber-attacks, including without limitation, nation-state actors for geopolitical reasons and in conjunction with military conflicts and defense activities. During times of war and other major conflicts, we, the third parties with whom we work, and our customers may be vulnerable to a heightened risk of these attacks, including retaliatory cyber-attacks, that could materially disrupt our systems and operations, supply chain, and ability to produce, sell and distribute our services. For example, we have operations and third parties with whom we work to support our business located in unstable regions and regions experiencing (or expected to experience) geopolitical or other conflicts, including in the Middle East, where businesses have experienced an increase in cyberattacks in relation to the Israel-Hamas war. In addition, our network, computer system or platform are subject to a variety of evolving threats, including but not limited to, computer malware (including as a result of advanced persistent threat intrusions), viruses, worms and computer hacking, fraudulent use attempts, phishing and other social engineering attacks (including through deep fakes, which may be increasingly more difficult to identify as fake), denial-of-service attacks, credential stuffing attacks, credential harvesting, personnel misconduct or error, ransomware attacks, supply-chain attacks and disruptions, adware, attacks enhanced or facilitated by AI, and other similar threats, all of which have become more prevalent in our industry. In particular, severe ransomware attacks are becoming increasingly prevalent and can lead to significant interruptions in our operations, loss of sensitive information and income, reputational harm, and diversion of funds. Extortion payments may alleviate the negative impact of a ransomware attack, but we may be unwilling or unable to make such payments due to, for example, applicable laws or regulations prohibiting such payments. It may be difficult and/or costly to detect, investigate, mitigate, contain, and remediate a security incident. Our efforts to do so may not be successful. Actions taken by us or the third parties with whom we work to detect, investigate, mitigate, contain, and remediate a security incident could result in outages, data losses, and disruptions of our business. Threat actors may also gain access to other networks and systems after a compromise of our 18 networks and systems. Our data and information systems or those of third parties with whom we work have in the past, and may in the future, also fail for reasons other than malicious activity, including but not limited to, software bugs, configuration errors, server malfunctions, software or hardware failures, service outages, loss of data or other information technology assets, telecommunications failures, earthquakes, fires, and floods. Remote work has increased risks to our platform, network, computer systems, and data, as our employees utilize network connections, computers and devices outside our premises or network, including working at home, while in transit and in public locations. Additionally, future or past business transactions (such as acquisitions or integrations) could expose us to additional cybersecurity risks and vulnerabilities, as our platform, network, or computer systems could be negatively affected by vulnerabilities present in acquired or integrated entities systems and technologies. Furthermore, we may discover security issues that were not found during due diligence, and it may be difficult to integrate companies into our information technology environment and security program. These and other threats, attacks, disruptions, outages, or accidents involving us or the third parties with whom we work have in the past, and may in the future, result in the unauthorized, unlawful, or accidental acquisition, modification, destruction, loss, alteration, encryption, disclosure, access, unavailability or misappropriation of our sensitive information, including of our customers and their employees or third parties, and/or damage to our or the third parties with whom we works platform, network, or computer systems. For instance, in the second quarter of 2024, we were made aware of an article posted by a security researcher which identified a temporary vulnerability with respect to two Azure environments related to a limited number of government customers. The vulnerability was remediated as of June 30, 2024, and we notified our potentially affected customers. Our investigation into and response to the matter and this issue has concluded and has not resulted in the loss of any of our customers. While we have implemented security measures designed to protect against security incidents, there can be no assurance that these measures will be effective. We take steps designed to detect, mitigate and remediate vulnerabilities in our information systems (such as our hardware and/or software, including that of third parties with whom we work). However, we have not in the past been, and may not in the future be, able to detect and remediate all vulnerabilities. As a result, such vulnerabilities have in the past and could in the future be exploited but may not be detected until after a security incident has occurred. Further, we have in the past experienced (and may in the future experience) delays in developing and deploying remedial measures and patches designed to address identified vulnerabilities. Even if we have issued or otherwise made patches or information for vulnerabilities in our software applications, products or services, our customers may be unwilling or unable to deploy such patches and use such information effectively and in a timely manner. These vulnerabilities could be exploited and result in a security incident. Applicable data privacy and security obligations require us, or we may voluntarily choose, to notify relevant stakeholders, including affected individuals, customers, regulators, and investors, of security incidents or vulnerabilities, or to take other actions, such as providing credit monitoring and identity theft protection services. Such disclosures and related actions are costly, and the disclosure or the failure to comply with such applicable requirements could lead to adverse consequences. An actual or perceived security breach of our platform, network or computer systems, or those of our technology service providers or third party vendors, could result in material adverse consequences such as the loss of business, financial losses, reputational damage, negative publicity, government enforcement actions (for example, regulatory investigations, orders, fines, penalties, audits, and inspections), additional reporting requirements and/or oversight, litigation (including class claims), indemnity obligations, damages for contract breach, civil and criminal penalties (including for violation of applicable laws, regulations or contractual obligations), restrictions on processing sensitive data (including personal data), diversion of management attention, interruptions in our operations (including availability of data), significant costs, fees and other monetary payments for remediation, and other harms. Some of our contracts do not contain limitations of liability, and even where they do, there can be no assurance that limitations of liability in our contracts are sufficient to protect us from liabilities, damages, or claims related to our data privacy and security obligations.We cannot be sure that our insurance coverage will be adequate or sufficient to protect us from or to mitigate liabilities arising out of our privacy and security practices, that such coverage will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that such coverage will pay future claims. If we fail or are perceived to have failed to maintain the reliability, security and availability of our platform, network, or computer systems, or if customers believe that our platform does not provide adequate security for the storage of sensitive information or its transmission over the Internet, we may lose existing customers and we may not be able to attract new customers, negatively impacting our ability to grow and operate our business. If we experience security breaches or cyber-attacks or fail to comply with security requirements related to our secure government cloud environment, we may lose our 19 ability to obtain or maintain a FedRAMP certification, which could result in the loss of business from customers in the government market. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position and negatively impact our ability to grow and operate our business. The reliability and continuous availability of our platform and services is critical to our success. However, software such as ours can contain errors, defects, security vulnerabilities or software bugs that are difficult to detect and correct, particularly when such vulnerabilities are first introduced or when new versions or enhancements of our product are released. Additionally, even if we are able to develop a patch or other fix to address such vulnerabilities, such fix may be difficult to push out to our customers or otherwise be delayed. Furthermore, our business depends upon the appropriate and successful implementation of our platform and services by our customers. If our customers fail to use our platform or services according to our specifications, our customers may suffer a security incident on their own systems or other adverse consequences. Moreover, we employ a shared responsibility model where our customers are responsible for using, configuring and otherwise implementing security measures related to our platform in a manner that meets applicable cybersecurity standards, complies with laws and addresses their information security risk. As part of this shared responsibility security model, we make certain security features such as single sign-on available to our customers that can be implemented at our customers discretion, or identify security areas or measures for which our customers are responsible. In certain cases where our customers choose not to implement, or incorrectly implement, those features or measures, misuse our services, or otherwise experience their own vulnerabilities, policy violations, credential exposure or security incidents, even if we are not the cause of a resulting customer security issue or incident, our customer relationships, reputation, and revenue may be adversely impacted. Even if such an incident is unrelated to our security practices, it could result in our incurring significant economic and operational costs in investigating, remediating, and implementing additional measures to further protect our customers from their own vulnerabilities, and could result in reputational harm. In addition to experiencing a security incident, third parties may gather, collect, or infer sensitive information about us from public sources, data brokers, or other means that reveal competitively sensitive details about our organization and could be used to undermine our competitive advantage or market position. Additionally, our sensitive information or sensitive information of our customers could be leaked, disclosed, or revealed as a result of or in connection with the use of generative AI technologies by our employees, personnel, or vendors. Our ability to use our loss carryforwards may be limited. As of December 31, 2024, we had U.S. federal, state and foreign loss carryforwards totaling approximately $148.6 million, $118.8 million and $32.2 million, respectively. These U.S. federal and state net operating loss carryforwards are projected to expire beginning in 2037 and 2032, respectively, unless previously utilized. The foreign loss carryforwards can be carried forward indefinitely. Under current law, U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards arising in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, may be carried forward indefinitely, but our use of such net operating loss carryforwards in a tax year generally may not exceed 80% of such years taxable income. In addition, our U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards may be subject to limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, if we have undergone or undergo an ownership change, generally defined as a greater than 50 percentage point change (by value) in our equity ownership by certain stockholders over a rolling three-year period. We may have experienced such ownership changes in the past and may experience ownership changes in the future as a result of shifts in our stock ownership, some of which are outside our control. Our net operating loss carryforwards may also be impaired or restricted under state law. For example, California enacted legislation that, with certain exceptions, suspends the ability to use California net operating losses to offset California income and limits the ability to use California business tax credits to offset California taxes, for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2024, and before January 1, 2027. Such state tax law provisions could accelerate or permanently increase state taxes owed. There is also a risk that due to other future regulatory changes, such as suspensions on the use of net operating losses in other jurisdictions, or other unforeseen reasons, our existing loss carryforwards could expire or otherwise be unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities. If we earn taxable income, such limitations could result in increased future income tax liability and our future cash flows or results of operations could be adversely affected. Risks Related to our Indebtedness and Liquidity Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our operations to pay our debt obligations. As of December 31, 2024, we had $41.2 million principal amount outstanding of senior secured indebtedness under the Term Loan (as defined below), maturing in December 2027, and $91.3 million aggregate principal amount outstanding of convertible senior notes maturing in November 2026. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay 20 interest on and to refinance our indebtedness depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we have in the past been, and may again in the future be, required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring our debt or obtaining additional equity capital which may be on terms that are onerous or highly dilutive to our stockholders. Our ability to engage in corporate transactions, raise additional capital or refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities at all or on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations. If we are not able to achieve certain cost synergies from our prior acquisitions, cost savings from our planned cost reduction measures, or raise sufficient capital through capital-raising transactions, we will need additional liquidity to continue our operations over the next twelve months. As of December 31, 2024, we had liquidity of $16.9 million comprised of cash and cash equivalents, and we had debt consisting of $41.2 million principal amount outstanding under the Term Loan maturing in December 2027 and $91.3 million aggregate principal amount outstanding under our convertible senior notes maturing in November 2026. During the year ended December 31, 2024, we incurred a net loss of $37.4 million and used cash in continuing operations of $59.3 million. As of December 31, 2024, we had an accumulated deficit of $467.3 million. We have a history of operating losses and negative operating cash flows. The amount of future losses and when, if ever, we will achieve profitability are uncertain. In addition, even if we achieve profitability, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain profitability in the future. Based on our liquidity position as of December 31, 2024 and our current forecast of operating results and cash flows, absent any other action, management determined that we will need additional liquidity to continue our operations for the foreseeable future, including over the next twelve months. We may require additional capital to grow our business, service our debt obligations or refinance our maturing debt obligations, the amount of which will depend upon the size, timing, and structure of future working capital and general corporate needs and / or acquisitions, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. As noted above, if we are not able to achieve certain cost synergies from our prior acquisitions and cost savings from our planned cost reduction measures, we will need additional liquidity to continue our operations for the foreseeable future, including over the next twelve months. We may also require additional capital to service our debt obligations or refinance our debt obligations as they come due. We have in the past and may again in the future engage in equity and/or debt financings to secure any needed additional funds. For example, in December 2023, we and certain of our subsidiaries, as guarantors, entered into a Credit and Guaranty Agreement with certain lenders and Wilmington Savings Fund Society, FSB, as administrative agent and collateral agent. As of December 31, 2024, $41.2 million was outstanding under the Term Loan. Any borrowings, including borrowings made to finance future strategic initiatives, could make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our operating results, a downturn in economic conditions, or increases in interest rates on borrowings that are subject to interest rate fluctuations. If our cash flow from operations is insufficient to meet our debt service requirements, we could then be required to sell additional equity securities, refinance our obligations or dispose of assets in order to meet our debt service requirements. Adequate financing may not be available if and when we need it or may not be available on terms acceptable to us. The failure to obtain sufficient financing on favorable terms and conditions could have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects. Our ability to raise additional capital depends on a variety of factors, including our financial condition, market conditions, and investor demand. Recently, we have engaged in capital-raising transactions to support our operations and strategic initiatives, but there is no assurance that similar opportunities will be available in the future or that they will be sufficient to meet our needs. For example, on January 2, 2025, we conducted a registered direct offering (the Registered Direct Offering) pursuant to a securities purchase agreement with Esousa Group Holdings, LLC. The Registered Direct Offering included 4,414,878 shares of our common stock, priced at $2.53 per share, and pre-funded warrants to purchase up to 3,608,838 shares of our common stock priced at $2.52 per pre-funded warrant, with an exercise price of $0.01 per share. We received gross proceeds from the Registered Direct Offering of approximately $20.3 million, before deducting offering expenses. While this transaction provided immediate funding, it involved dilution of our stockholders' equity, and further dilution will result upon the exercise of the warrants. 21 Additionally, on November 19, 2024, we entered into the Sales Agreement with Needham & Company, LLC and H.C. Wainwright & Co., LLC, as Sales Agents, to establish an at-the-market equity offering program, allowing us to offer and sell shares of our common stock having an aggregate offering price of up to $35.0 million from time to time through the Sales Agents. While these financing activities have contributed to our liquidity, future capital-raising efforts may involve significant risks, including dilution to our stockholders, higher costs of capital, or restrictive covenants. Moreover, market conditions or other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our ability to access additional funding on acceptable terms, if at all. Failure to secure sufficient capital when needed could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Further, if we raise additional funds through future issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. If we do so, existing stockholders will experience dilution in the voting power of their common stock and earnings per share could be negatively impacted. The extent to which we will be able and willing to use issuances of equity or convertible debt securities for acquisitions and other strategic initiatives will depend on the market value of our common stock and the willingness of potential third parties to accept any such securities as full or partial consideration. Our inability to use issuances of our equity securities or convertible debt securities as consideration, to generate cash from operations, or to obtain additional funding through debt or equity financings to pursue our strategic initiatives could materially limit our growth. The Credit Agreement governing our Term Loan contains debt service obligations and restrictive covenants that may impair our ability to access sufficient capital and operate our business. The Credit Agreement governing our Term Loan contains various provisions that limit our ability, and certain of our subsidiaries abilities to, among other things, maintain unrestricted cash and cash equivalents of less than $15.0 million at any given time; create, incur, assume or guaranty certain indebtedness, liens, encumbrances and/or restrictions on our subsidiaries; make certain investments; make payments or distributions; undergo certain fundamental changes, including certain mergers, consolidations, liquidations, wind-ups and dissolutions; make sales, transfers and dispositions of certain property; sell, assign, pledge, encumber or dispose of interests in our subsidiaries; guarantee certain leases of real property; enter into certain transactions with certain stockholders and their affiliates; engage in certain lines of business; change our fiscal year-end or the fiscal year-end of our subsidiaries; make any changes in our or our subsidiaries accounting policies that are not required under GAAP; and make certain material amendments to, or permit certain material terminations or waivers of certain of our existing agreements. These covenants may impact our ability to operate and finance our business as we deem appropriate and may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and pursue other business opportunities. Our failure to meet our obligations as they become due or to comply with various financial covenants contained in the instruments governing our current or future indebtedness could constitute an event of default under the instruments governing our indebtedness, including the Credit Agreement. In such event, the holders of the affected indebtedness could declare all of that indebtedness immediately due and payable, which, in turn, could cause the acceleration of the maturity of all or part of our other indebtedness. We may not have sufficient funds available, or we may not have access to sufficient capital from other sources, to repay any accelerated debt. Even if we could obtain additional financing, the terms of the financing may not be favorable to us. In addition, substantially all of our assets are subject to liens securing the Term Loan. If amounts outstanding under the Term Loan were accelerated, our lenders could foreclose on these liens and we could lose substantially all of our assets. Any event of default under the instruments governing our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any adverse change in market interest rates could increase our interest costs on existing and future debt and could adversely affect our stock price. Our Term Loan accrues interest at a rate of Term SOFR plus 8.50% per annum, with a 3.00% floor for Term SOFR, payable quarterly. We anticipate that federal reserve rates will remain elevated and volatile in fiscal 2025, and that we will continue to experience higher interest rates accordingly. If interest rates increase, our interest costs could increase under our Credit Agreement and Term Loan. In addition, we may in the future incur additional indebtedness at increased interest rates in connection with entry into new credit facilities or financing other transactions. Increased cost associated with increased interest rates could make the financing of any acquisition more costly, as well as lower our current period earnings. Rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures or cause us to pay higher interest rates upon refinancing. 22 Risks Related to Target Markets, Competition and Customers The success of our business depends on our ability to expand into new vertical markets and attract new customers in a cost-effective manner. To grow our business, we plan to drive greater awareness and adoption of our aiWARE platform, applications and services from enterprises across new vertical markets, including the Public Sector markets. We intend to continue to invest in sales and marketing, as well as in technological development, to meet evolving customer needs in these and other markets. We may not be successful in gaining new customers in any or all of these markets. Some markets may present unique and unexpected challenges and difficulties. For example, for us to offer our Software Products & Services to certain government customers, we are required to operate our aiWARE platform in a secure government cloud environment, and in some cases, in a private cloud environment or an on-premises environment, in order to meet these customers requirements and to enable them to maintain compliance with applicable regulations that govern the use, storage and transfer of certain government data. However, due to the secure nature of these environments, at this time, not all of the functionalities, features and cognitive processing capabilities of our aiWARE platform are available in these environments, which may limit or reduce the performance of our services. Furthermore, we may incur additional costs to modify our current platform to conform to customers or cloud providers requirements, and we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to offset these costs. We are also required to comply with certain regulations required by government customers, such as FedRAMP and CJIS, which require us to incur significant costs, devote management time and modify our current platform and operations. If we are unable to comply with those regulations effectively and in a cost-effective manner, our financial results could be adversely affected. As part of our strategy to penetrate new vertical markets, we will incur marketing expenses before we are able to recognize any revenue in such markets, and these expenses may not result in increased revenue or brand awareness. We have made in the past, and may make in the future, significant expenditures and investments in new marketing campaigns, and these investments may not lead to the cost-effective acquisition of additional customers. If we are unable to maintain effective marketing programs, then our ability to attract new customers or enter new vertical markets could be adversely affected. Historically, we have generated significant revenue from a limited number of key customers, and have recently experienced declines in revenue from one of these customers, which has resulted in a significant reduction in our revenues and may cause our revenues for future periods to be less predictable. Historically, we have generated a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of key customers. Our ten largest customers by revenue accounted for approximately 36% of our net revenues in fiscal year 2023, which decreased to approximately 22% of net revenues from our ten largest customers by revenue for fiscal year 2024. Amazon, historically our largest customer, reduced its hiring consumption starting in the third and fourth quarters of fiscal year 2022. Amazon has decreased from generating 25% of net revenues in fiscal year 2022 to less than 1% of our net revenues in fiscal year 2024. With respect to our Software Products & Services, our largest customer accounted for approximately 22% of our total Software Products & Services revenues during 2023 and no customer accounted for more than 10% of our total Software Products & Services revenues during 2024. For Managed Services, our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 49% and 47% of our total Managed Services revenues in 2024 and 2023, respectively, with one customer accounting for approximately 20% of our total Managed Services revenues in both 2024 and 2023. In connection with our sale of Veritone One in October 2024, we lost several significant customers that provided Managed Services revenues. Because of the concentrated nature of our customer base historically, any delay, reduction, cancellation or discontinuation of services by our larger customers has materially affected and may in the future materially affect our revenue and results of operations. In addition, the recent declines in revenue from one of these customers across our lines of business may cause us to face more volatility in our revenue in future periods and more difficulty in predicting our revenue for future periods. We may be unable to grow revenues with new or remaining customers or offset the discontinuation of purchases by customers we have experienced declines in revenue with purchases by new or existing customers. Furthermore, if we are unable to replace lost revenue from key customers, we may continue to experience decreased sales, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. If any of our remaining key customers decides to terminate or declines to renew its contract with us, or renews on less favorable terms, and if we are unable to gain additional customers or increase our revenue from other existing customers to offset the reduction of revenues, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be harmed. Technological advances may significantly disrupt the labor market and weaken demand for human capital at a rapid rate. 23 The success of our Veritone Hire solutions is dependent on our customers demands for talent. As technology continues to evolve, more tasks currently performed by people may be replaced by automation, robotics, machine learning, artificial intelligence and other technological advances outside of our control. This trend poses a risk to the talent acquisition industry as a whole, particularly in lower-skill job categories that may be more susceptible to such replacement. Significant segments of the market for talent acquisition software and services may have hiring needs and service preferences that are subject to greater volatility than the overall economy. The target customer segment for our Veritone Hire solutions spans a wide range of company characteristics, including company size, geography, and industry, among other factors. Hiring activity may vary significantly among businesses with different characteristics and we have historically experienced volatility in our financial results related to our Veritone Hire solutions. Smaller businesses, for example, typically have less persistent hiring needs and may experience greater volatility in their need for talent acquisition software and services and preferences among providers of such services. Along with a relatively short sales cycle, smaller businesses may be more likely to change platforms based on short-term differences in perceived price, value, service level, or other factors. Difficulty in acquiring and/or retaining these businesses as customers may adversely affect our operating results. Our sales efforts related to our Software Products & Services involve considerable time and expense and our sales cycle is often long and unpredictable. Our results of operations may fluctuate, in part, because of the length and unpredictability of our sales cycle, particularly in our Public Sector markets. As part of our sales efforts, we invest considerable time and expense evaluating the specific organizational needs of our potential customers and educating these potential customers about the technical capabilities and value of our Software Products & Services. Potential customers often require evaluation licenses at no charge or for nominal fees to evaluate our solutions before making a purchase decision. Sales to government customers may also be subject to lengthy and complex procurement processes, including technology and security assessments, budget approvals and competitive bidding requirements. Due to these factors, our sales cycle often lasts several months or more for some customers. Our sales efforts typically require a significant investment of human resources expense and time, including efforts by sales engineers, solution architects, product development and senior management, and we may not be successful in making a sale to a potential customer. If our sales efforts to a potential customer do not result in sufficient revenue to justify our investments, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Intellectual Property We face risks arising from our digital content licensing services, including potential liability resulting from claims by third parties for infringement or violation of copyrights, publicity or other rights, as well as indemnification claims by rights holders and customers. We manage and license digital content on behalf of leading rights holders in the film, television, sports and advertising industries. We enter into agreements with rights holders under which they grant us the right to distribute and license their content to third parties, including to LLM developers for the purpose of development, training, operation, and use of machine learning and artificial intelligence activities and technologies, including, building, training, testing, and tuning models, subject to certain restrictions and requirements, such as limitations on the type and/or duration of use and requirements to obtain clearances and consents from third parties related to the content. Under these agreements, the rights holders generally represent and warrant that they have the right to license the content to us and that the authorized use of the content will not infringe any third party copyrights and agree to indemnify us for claims arising from breach of such representations and warranties. However, we, and/or our customers to which we sublicense the content, are generally responsible for obtaining all required clearances, permissions and consents with respect to any specific person, place, property or subject matter depicted in the content, each of which may be subject to trademarks, rights of publicity, property rights or other rights belonging to third parties, and we generally agree to indemnify the right holders with respect to claims arising from any failure to do so. In many cases, our agreements with rights holders also require that we include specific terms, conditions, covenants and obligations in our agreements with our customers. In our license agreements with customers, we represent and warrant that we have the right to sublicense the content to them and that their authorized use of the content will not infringe any third party copyrights, and we agree to indemnify our customers for claims arising from breach of such representations and warranties. However, our customers are generally responsible for obtaining all necessary clearances, permissions and consents from third parties, unless we have expressly agreed to provide clearance services with respect to the content, and our customers generally agree to indemnify us for claims 24 arising from their failure to do so. If we or our customers fail to obtain all clearances, permissions and consents from third parties required for the customers use of licensed content, or if our customers otherwise use content in a manner not authorized by the terms of our agreements with the rights holders, then third parties may bring claims against us and the rights holders, and the rights holders may seek indemnification from us related to such claims. In some cases, we may not be entitled to a supporting indemnification by our customers, or we may not be successful in enforcing our rights to indemnification by our customers. In addition, third parties may bring claims against us and our customers for copyright infringement, and we may be required to indemnify our customers for such claims. Similarly, we may not be entitled to indemnification by the rights holders, or we may not be able to enforce our rights to indemnification by the rights holders. We may incur significant liabilities and costs in the event of claims for infringement or violation of copyrights, publicity or other rights, and/or indemnification claims by third-party rights holders and customers. Regardless of their merit and outcome, intellectual property and indemnification claims are time consuming, expensive to litigate or settle and cause significant diversion of management attention and could severely harm our financial condition and reputation, and adversely affect our business. We maintain insurance policies to cover potential intellectual property disputes. However, if an intellectual property claim or related indemnification claim, or a series of claims, is brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage or for uninsured liabilities, our business could suffer. In addition, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts or scope to protect us against all losses. We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. There has been considerable patent and other intellectual property development activity in the AI industry, which has resulted in litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Our future success depends, in part, on not infringing the intellectual property rights of others. In the future, we may receive claims from third parties, including our competitors, alleging that our platform and underlying technology infringe or violate such third partys intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing upon such rights. We may be unaware of the intellectual property rights of others that may cover some or all of our technology. In addition, in operating our platform, we rely significantly on software provided by third parties, including without limitation, generative AI models and applications, and we may become subject to similar infringement claims related to such third party software. We may not have adequate indemnities from, or we may not be successful in enforcing our rights to indemnification by, such third party software providers. Any such claims or litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, could require that we pay substantial damages or ongoing royalty payments, prevent us from offering some portion of our platform, or require that we comply with other unfavorable terms. We may also be obligated to indemnify our customers or business partners in connection with any such litigation and to obtain licenses or modify our platform, which could further exhaust our resources. Patent infringement, trademark infringement, trade secret misappropriation and other intellectual property claims and proceedings brought against us, whether successful or not, could harm our brand, business, results of operations and financial condition. Litigation is inherently uncertain, and any judgment or injunctive relief entered against us or any adverse settlement could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, litigation can involve significant management time and attention and be expensive, regardless of the outcome. We could incur substantial costs in protecting or defending our intellectual property rights, and any failure to protect our intellectual property could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our brand and the proprietary methods and technologies that we develop under patent and other intellectual property laws of the United States and foreign jurisdictions so that we can prevent others from using our inventions and proprietary information. As of March 10, 2025, in the United States, we have 34 issued patents, which expire between 2029 and 2042, and have 8 patent applications pending for examination. As of such date, we also had 16 issued patents and 3 patent applications pending for examination in foreign jurisdictions (including international PCT applications), all of which are based on counterpart U.S. patent applications pursued by us. We may not be issued any additional patents and any patents that have been issued or that may be issued in the future may not provide significant protection for our intellectual property. In addition, we have registered, or have applied for registration of, numerous trademarks, including Veritone and aiWARE, in the United States and in several foreign jurisdictions. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors might gain access to our technology and our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. 25 The particular forms of intellectual property protection that we seek, or our business decisions about when to file patent applications and trademark applications, may not be adequate to protect our business. We could be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights or those of others, or defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Such litigation could be costly, time-consuming and distracting to management, result in a diversion of significant resources, lead to the narrowing or invalidation of portions of our intellectual property and have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We also rely, in part, on confidentiality agreements with our business partners, employees, consultants, advisors, customers and others in our efforts to protect our proprietary technology, processes and methods. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of our confidential information, and it may be possible for unauthorized parties to copy our software or other proprietary technology or information, or to develop similar software independently without our having an adequate remedy for unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information, and in these cases, we would not be able to assert any trade secret rights against those parties. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and the failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. In addition, the laws of some countries do not protect intellectual property and other proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. To the extent we expand our international activities, our exposure to unauthorized copying, transfer and use of our proprietary technology or information may increase. Our means of protecting our intellectual property and proprietary rights may not be adequate or our competitors could independently develop similar technology. If we fail to meaningfully protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our use of open source software could negatively affect our ability to sell our products and subject us to possible litigation. Our Software Products & Services, including our aiWARE platform, incorporate select open source software, and we expect to continue to incorporate open source software in our Software Products & Services in the future. Few of the licenses applicable to open source software have been interpreted by courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products and platform. Moreover, although we have implemented policies designed to regulate the use and incorporation of open source software into our Software Products & Services, we cannot be certain that we have not incorporated open source software in our Software Products & Services in a manner that is inconsistent with such policies. There is a risk that our use of third-party open source software could impose certain requirements on our ability to commercialize our products, including requirements that we offer our products that incorporate the open source software for no cost, that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon, incorporating or using the open source software and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of applicable open source licenses. If an author or other third party that distributes such open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of these licenses, we could be required to incur significant legal expenses defending against such allegations and could be subject to significant damages, enjoined from generating revenue from customers using products that contained the open source software and required to comply with onerous open source license conditions or restrictions. In any of these events, we and our customers could be required to seek licenses from third parties to continue offering our Software Products & Services and we could be required to make proprietary portions of our source code freely available or to re-engineer the implicated products or discontinue offering the implicated products to customers in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis. In addition, the use of third-party open source software typically exposes us to greater risks than the use of third-party commercial software because open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the functionality or origin of the software. Use of open source software may also present additional security risks because the public availability of such software may make it easier for hackers and other third parties to determine how to compromise our platform. Any of the foregoing could harm our business and could help our competitors develop products and services that are similar to or better than ours. Any of the foregoing could require us to devote additional research and development resources to re-engineer our products, could result in customer dissatisfaction and may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Regulatory Compliance We and the third parties with whom we work are subject to stringent and evolving U.S. and foreign laws, regulations, and rules, contractual obligations, industry standards, policies and other obligations related to data privacy and security. These 26 legal and other obligations have in the past, and could in the future, require us to make changes to our business, impose additional costs on us and reduce the demand for our software products and solutions. Our actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations could also lead to regulatory investigations or actions; litigation (including class claims) and mass arbitration demands; fines and penalties; disruptions of our business operations; reputational harm; loss of revenue or profits; and other adverse business consequences. In the ordinary course of business, we process sensitive information. Our customers also utilize our Software Products & Services and Managed Services to process sensitive information, which may contain personal data that is subject to data protection and privacy laws in various jurisdictions. Our data processing activities subject us to numerous data privacy and security obligations. Federal, state, local and foreign government bodies and agencies have adopted, or may in the future adopt, laws, regulations and guidance regarding the processing of personal data. These include, but are not limited to, the GDPR, the CCPA (as amended) and other data protection and privacy laws, regulations and guidance adopted in other jurisdictions, including other states within the United States. In addition to government laws, regulations and guidance, privacy advocates and industry groups may propose various self-regulatory standards that legally or contractually apply to our business. We are also subject to other data protection and privacy obligations, such as external and internal privacy and security policies, other public representations and contractual requirements. The regulatory framework relating to privacy and data protection issues worldwide is evolving rapidly. Consumers data privacy expectations are also quickly changing, becoming increasingly stringent, and creating uncertainty. Because the interpretation and application of many privacy and data protection obligations are uncertain, these obligations may be interpreted and applied in a manner inconsistent with our existing privacy and data management practices. Preparing for and complying with these obligations requires us to devote significant resources, which may necessitate changes to our services, information technologies, systems, and practices and to those of any third parties with whom we work. In addition, these obligations may require us to change our business model. Our business model materially depends on our ability to process personal data, including sensitive and highly regulated types of data such as biometric information, so we are particularly exposed to the risks associated with the rapidly changing legal landscape. For example, we may be at heightened risk of regulatory scrutiny, and any changes in the regulatory framework could require us to fundamentally change our business model. As we expand into new jurisdictions or markets, we will be required to understand and comply with various new privacy and security requirements applicable in those jurisdictions or markets. For example, we have entered into agreements and are actively pursuing opportunities to provide our Software Products & Services and Managed Services to customers in Europe, which involve processing of personal data. Europe and other jurisdictions have enacted or proposed privacy and security laws with stringent obligations and significant penalties. For example, the EU GDPR and UK GDPR impose financial penalties for non-compliance, which can be up to 20 million Euros under the EU GDPR, 17.5 million pounds sterling under the UK GDPR, or, in each case, 4% of annual global revenue, whichever is greater. In particular, in the ordinary course of business, we transfer personal data from Europe and other jurisdictions to the United States or other countries. Europe and other jurisdictions have enacted laws limiting the transfer of personal data to other countries or, in some cases, requiring data to be localized. In particular, the European Economic Area (EEA) and the UK have significantly restricted the transfer of personal data to the United States and other countries whose privacy laws they generally believe are inadequate. Other jurisdictions may adopt or have already adopted similarly stringent data localization and cross-border data transfer laws. Although there are currently various mechanisms that may be used to transfer personal data from the EEA and UK to the United States in compliance with law, such as the EEA standard contractual clauses, the UKs International Data Transfer Agreement / Addendum, and the EU-U.S. Data Privacy Framework and the UK extension thereto (which allows for transfers to relevant U.S.-based organizations who self-certify compliance and participate in the Framework), these mechanisms are subject to potential legal challenges, and there is no assurance that we can satisfy or rely on these measures to lawfully transfer personal data to the United States. If there is no lawful manner for us to transfer personal data from the EEA and the UK or other jurisdictions to the United States, or if the requirements for a legally-compliant transfer are too onerous, we could face significant adverse consequences, including the interruption or degradation of our operations, the need to relocate part of or all of our business or data processing activities to other jurisdictions at significant expense, increased exposure to regulatory actions, substantial fines and penalties, the inability to transfer data and work with partners, vendors and other third parties, and injunctions against our processing or transferring of personal data necessary to operate our business. Furthermore, companies that transfer personal data out of the EEA and UK to other jurisdictions, particularly to the United States, are subject to increased scrutiny from regulators, individual litigants, and activist groups. Some European regulators have ordered certain companies to suspend or permanently cease certain transfers of 27 personal data out of Europe for allegedly violating the GDPRs cross-border data transfer limitations. In addition, in the EEA and the UK, regulators are increasingly focused on compliance with targeted advertising-related requirements. European regulators have issued significant fines in certain circumstances where regulators allege that appropriate consent was not obtained in connection with targeted advertising activities. It is anticipated that the ePrivacy Regulation and national implementing laws will replace the current national laws implementing the ePrivacy Directive, which may require us to make significant operational changes. In the United States, federal, state, and local governments have enacted numerous data privacy and security laws, including data breach notification laws, personal data privacy laws, consumer protection laws (e.g., Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act), and other similar laws (e.g., wiretapping laws). Numerous U.S. states have enacted comprehensive privacy laws that impose certain obligations on covered businesses, including providing specific disclosures in privacy notices and affording residents with certain rights concerning their personal data. As applicable, such rights include the right to access, correct, or delete certain personal data, and to opt-out of certain data processing activities, such as targeted advertising, profiling, and automated decision-making. The exercise of these rights may impact our business and ability to provide our products and services. Certain states also impose stricter requirements for processing certain personal data, including sensitive information, such as conducting data privacy impact assessments. These state laws allow for statutory fines for noncompliance. For example, the CCPA applies to personal data of consumers, business representatives, and employees who are California residents, and requires businesses to provide specific disclosures in privacy notices and honor requests of such individuals to exercise certain privacy rights. The CCPA provides for fines and allows private litigants affected by certain data breaches to recover significant statutory damages. We are also bound by contractual obligations related to data privacy and security, and our efforts to comply with such obligations may not be successful. For example, certain privacy laws, such as the GDPR and the CCPA, require our customers to impose specific contractual restrictions on their service providers. Additionally, some of our customer contracts require us to host personal data locally. We also publish privacy policies, marketing materials, whitepapers and other statements, such as statements related to compliance with certain certifications or self-regulatory principles, regarding data privacy, security and artificial intelligence. Regulators in the United States are increasingly scrutinizing these statements, and if these policies, materials or statements are found to be deficient, lacking in transparency, deceptive, unfair, misleading or misrepresentative of our practices, we may be subject to investigation, enforcement actions by regulators or other adverse consequences. To the extent applicable to our business or the businesses of our customers, these obligations could have negative effects on our business, including by increasing our costs and operating expenses, and delaying or impeding our deployment of new core functionality and products. Compliance with these obligations requires significant management time and attention, and actual or perceived failure to comply could result in government enforcement actions (e.g., investigations, inspections, etc.), negative publicity, litigation (including class action claims) and mass arbitration demands, contractual liability, fines or penalties, additional reporting requirements and/or oversight or result in demands that we modify or cease existing business practices (including bans on processing personal data or orders to destroy personal data). In addition, the costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, such laws, regulations and industry standards may adversely affect our customers ability or desire to collect, use, process and store personal data using our software solutions, which could reduce overall demand for them. Even the perception of privacy and data security concerns, whether or not valid, may inhibit market acceptance of our software solutions in certain markets. Furthermore, privacy and data security concerns may cause our customers customers, vendors, employees and other industry participants to resist providing the personal data necessary to allow our customers to use our products and services effectively. Additionally, plaintiffs have become increasingly more active in bringing privacy-related claims, including class claims and mass arbitration demands. Some of these claims allow for the recovery of statutory damages on a per violation basis, and, if viable, carry the potential for monumental statutory damages, depending on the volume of data and the number of violations. Any of these outcomes could adversely affect our business and operating results. Additionally, under various privacy laws and other obligations, we are required to obtain certain consents to process personal data. For example, some of our data processing practices may be challenged under wiretapping laws, since we obtain consumer information from third parties through various methods, including chatbot and session replay providers and third-party marketing pixels. These practices are subject to increased challenges by class action plaintiffs. Our inability or failure to obtain consent for these practices could result in adverse consequences, including class action litigation and mass arbitration demands. Our employees and personnel use generative AI technologies to perform their work, and the disclosure and use of personal data in generative AI technologies is subject to various privacy laws and other privacy obligations. Governments have passed and are likely to pass additional laws regulating generative AI. Our use of this technology could result in additional compliance costs, regulatory investigations and actions, and lawsuits. If we are unable to use generative AI, it could make our business less efficient and result in competitive disadvantages. 28 Finally, governments and regulators in certain jurisdictions, including Europe, are increasingly seeking to regulate the use, transfer and other processing of non-personal data, an area which has typically been the subject of very limited or no specific regulation. For example, we may become subject to certain parts of the European Unions Data Act, which imposes certain data and cloud service interoperability and switching obligations to enable users to switch between service providers without undue delay or cost, as well as certain requirements concerning cross-border international transfers of, and governmental access to, non-personal data outside the EEA. Depending on how these laws are interpreted, we may have to adapt our business practices, contractual arrangements and products to comply with such obligations. Tax authorities in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions may successfully assert that we, including our acquired companies, should have collected, or in the future should collect, sales, use, value added, or similar taxes, and we could be subject to substantial liabilities with respect to past or future transactions, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We conduct operations in multiple tax jurisdictions throughout the United States. In many of these jurisdictions, non-income-based taxes, such as sales and use taxes and value-added taxes, are assessed on our operations. We assess the taxability of our sales based on the product type, customer, and jurisdiction where the sales are made and accrue a liability on the balance sheet accordingly. In the event these jurisdictions challenge our positions, such jurisdictions may assert tax assessments, penalties and/or interest against us, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we conduct operations outside of the United States, including in Israel and parts of Europe. These foreign jurisdictions have complex tax laws and regulations, and we may be subject to future uncertainties as a result of historical tax positions taken by us or our acquired companies. While we believe we have taken proper tax positions, as reflected in our financial statements herein, foreign tax authorities may challenge certain tax positions we or our acquired companies have taken historically, or may take in the future. While we believe we have properly accrued for estimated tax obligations in the jurisdictions where we have filing obligations, we cannot be certain the tax authorities will agree with our tax positions. As a result, our tax positions may be challenged in the future, and subject to local-, state- and country-specific audits and inquiries, the outcomes of which could differ materially from our estimates. Incurring any such tax liabilities (including related penalties and interest) could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. Recent and proposed laws regarding the use of facial recognition technology, the processing of biometric data, and the use of AI, automated decision-making and machine learning technologies increase our compliance costs and otherwise make it harder for us to conduct our business, require us to change our business practices, may lead to regulatory investigations or actions, and could have a material adverse effect on demand for certain of our products. Certain of our Software Products & Services, particularly our IDentify face matching application for law enforcement agencies, utilize facial recognition technology. Facial recognition technology has been the subject of increasing concern and criticism, including over the potential for the technology to misidentify individuals as criminal suspects, and to be used in ways that infringe on individual rights. Numerous legislative proposals have been introduced to ban or restrict the use of the technology by certain governmental agencies, and several U.S. cities, including San Francisco, California, Oakland, California and Somerville, Massachusetts, have enacted such bans. Although some jurisdictions are re-evaluating the breadth of such bans, where any ban or restriction on the use of facial recognition technologies by governmental agencies have been or may be enacted, potential government customers for our IDentify solution may be prohibited from or restricted in using the technology. If such bans or restrictions are enacted in a significant number of jurisdictions, it would have a material adverse effect on the market for software solutions that utilize facial recognition technology, including our IDentify solution. We also offer facial recognition technologies to non-governmental customers. Data privacy laws have been enacted or introduced in a number of jurisdictions that regulate the processing of biometric data, including facial images in facial recognition systems, by non-governmental actors. For example, the Illinois Biometric Information Privacy Act (BIPA) regulates the collection, use, safeguarding, and storage of biometric information. BIPA provides for substantial penalties and statutory damages and have generated significant class action activity; the cost of litigating and settling any claims that we have violated the BIPA or similar laws could be significant. As another example, certain comprehensive U.S. state privacy laws require covered businesses to obtain affirmative consumer consent before processing biometric data and other sensitive data and imposes additional compliance obligations on the processing of such data. Additionally, under the GDPR, use of biometric data for the purpose of uniquely identifying a natural person constitutes the processing of a special category of personal data, to which heightened standards, requirements and regulatory and individual scrutiny apply. Under the GDPR, the processing of biometric data for such purposes is prohibited unless one of a very limited and specific set of conditions is satisfied (such as explicit consent of the data subject). Effective compliance in this area (including using certain of our products) can be highly challenging, and we are reliant on our customers to ensure that applicable obligations are satisfied 29 when they use our products to identify someone. We may be unable to provide certain of our products in certain jurisdictions, in particular in Europe where provision of such technologies in compliance with the GDPR is highly challenging. Such laws may limit the demand for our aiWARE platform for non-governmental use cases that utilize facial recognition technology, which could adversely impact our ability to grow our business in those areas. In addition, AI, automated decision making, and ML technologies are increasingly subject to regulatory scrutiny and oversight, for example, under the comprehensive legal framework governing the use of artificial intelligence in the European Union (the EU AI Act). The EU AI Act imposes onerous obligations related to the development, deployment and use of AI/ML-related systems. In particular, the EU AI Act is likely to designate certain AI technologies, including technologies used in an employment-related context (such as in relation to recruitment, placement of targeted job advertisements, and decision-making concerning promotion, termination and task allocation), as high risk and subject to numerous onerous compliance obligations, including various transparency, conformity and risk assessment, monitoring and human oversight requirements; the EU AI Act is also likely to impose a prohibition of the use of real-time biometric identification systems in publicly accessible spaces by law enforcement authorities or on their behalf unless very limited exceptions apply. Certain of our products and services are likely to fall within one or more of these categories. Under the EU AI Act, non-compliant companies may be subject to administrative fines of up to 35 million Euros or 7% of a companys total worldwide annual turnover for the preceding financial year, whichever is the higher. The EU AI Act has a phased implementation process, with an initial ban on prohibited AI systems applying beginning February 2025. Moreover, in the United Kingdom, the government has confirmed its position that existing regulators are to implement certain specific principles (safety, security and robustness; transparency and explainability; fairness; accountability and governance; contestability and redress), within those regulators existing remits, to guide and inform the responsible development and use of AI/ML within their relevant sectors / competencies. Additionally, several U.S. jurisdictions have enacted measures related to the use of AI in products and services for their potentially discriminatory effects. For example, Colorado passed its comprehensive AI Act, and New York City passed a law to regulate the use of automated employment decision tools by employers and employment agencies. Certain of these laws may be materially unfavorable to our interests and/or inconsistent with our existing operations, policies, practices or plans (or may be interpreted as such). We expect other jurisdictions will adopt similar laws. Additionally, certain privacy laws extend rights to consumers (such as the right to delete certain personal data) and regulate automated decision making, which may be incompatible with our use of AI (including generative AI) and ML technologies in our products and services. These obligations may make it harder for us to conduct our business using AI/ML, lead to regulatory fines or penalties, require us to change our business practices, retrain our AI/ML, or prevent or limit our use of AI/ML. For example, the FTC has required other companies to turn over (or disgorge) valuable insights or trainings generated through the use of AI/ML where they allege the company has violated privacy and consumer protection laws. If we cannot use AI/ML or that use is restricted, our business may be less efficient, or we may be at a competitive disadvantage. Moreover, AI/ML models may create flawed, incomplete, or inaccurate outputs, some of which may appear correct. This may happen if the inputs that the model relied on were inaccurate, incomplete or flawed (including if a bad actor poisons the AI/ML with bad inputs or logic), or if the logic of the AI/ML is flawed (a so-called hallucination). We may use AI/ML outputs to make certain decisions. Due to these potential inaccuracies or flaws, the model could be biased and could lead us to make decisions that could bias certain individuals (or classes of individuals), and adversely impact their rights, employment, and ability to obtain certain pricing, products, services, or benefits. For example, our platform uses (and allows our customers to use) AI/ML for recruitment, screening, and other employment-related tasks, and if such AI/ML-based outputs or decisions are deemed to be biased, we could face adverse consequences, including exposure to reputational and competitive harm, customer loss, and legal liability. Furthermore, any sensitive information (including confidential, competitive, proprietary, or personal data) that we input into a third-party generative AI/machine learning platform could be leaked or disclosed to others, including if sensitive information is used to train the third partys AI/machine learning model. Additionally, where such a model ingests personal data and makes connections using such data, those technologies may reveal other personal or sensitive information generated by the model. Given that AI, automated decision making and ML technologies are core to our business, any increased regulation over these technologies, including the EU AI Act, could make it harder for us to conduct our business, significantly complicate our compliance efforts, increase legal risk and compliance costs for us, the third parties with whom we work, and our customers, increase our cost of doing business, impede or prevent our growth plans (including into Europe), require us to change our business operations at significant cost (such as retaining or rebuilding our AI/ML models), and reduce demand for our products. 30 Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Securities and Our Public Company Operations Our common stock price has been extremely volatile and could continue to fluctuate widely in price, which could result in substantial losses for investors. The market price of our common stock has been, and we expect will continue to be, subject to extreme fluctuations over short periods of time. For example, the closing price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $1.71 to a high of $6.97 during the 12-month period ended February 28, 2025. Prior to that, from the completion of our initial public offering (IPO) on May 12, 2017 through February 28, 2024, the closing price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $1.49 to a high of $65.91. These fluctuations may be due to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: the volume and timing of our revenues and quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of others in our industry; announcement of new contracts with customers or termination of contracts with customers; announcement of acquisitions of other companies or businesses, or other significant strategic transactions; announcement of equity or debt financing transactions; the introduction of new services, content or features by us or others in our industry; media exposure of our products or of those of others in our industry; sales of our common stock; speculative trading practices of certain market participants; actual or purported short squeeze trading activity; changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; and general economic and market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. In recent years, the stock markets generally have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the listed companies. Broad market and industry factors may significantly affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. These fluctuations have been, and may continue to be, even more pronounced in the trading market for our common stock. In addition, in the past, class action litigation has often been instituted against companies whose securities have experienced periods of volatility in market price. Securities litigation brought against us following volatility in our stock price, regardless of the merit or ultimate results of such litigation, could result in substantial costs, which would hurt our financial condition and operating results and divert managements attention and resources from our business. If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired. As a public company, we are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules implemented by the SEC. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure