Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations) of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Readers should carefully review these risks, as well as the additional risks described in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In light of the significant risks and uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking information included herein, the inclusion of such information should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that such results will be achieved, and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking information, which speak only as of the date of this report. Moreover, we operate in an evolving environment. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for our management to predict all risks and uncertainties, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual future results to be materially different from those expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements publicly, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. We qualify all of our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements. ii SUMMARY OF RISK FACTORS Below is a summary of certain material factors that could harm our business, operating results and/or financial condition, impair our future prospects, and/or cause the price of our common stock to decline. Please refer to the additional discussion of the risks summarized below in Item 1A (Risk Factors) of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which should be carefully considered, together with other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC, before making an investment decision regarding our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Financial Condition Our efforts to expand our aiWARE SaaS business may not be successful. The market for AI-based software applications is new and unproven and may decline or experience limited growth, and concerns over the use of AI may hinder the adoption of AI technologies, which would adversely affect our ability to fully realize the potential of our platform. We may require additional capital to support our business growth, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly and period-to-period comparisons of our results may not be meaningful. Certain of our operating results and financial metrics are difficult to predict as a result of seasonality. We have had a history of losses and we may be unable to sustain profitability. Failure to manage our growth effectively could increase our expenses, decrease our revenue and prevent us from implementing our business strategy. We intend to continue to pursue the acquisition of other companies, businesses or technologies, which could be expensive, divert our managements attention, fail to achieve the expected benefits and/or expose us to other risks or difficulties. Our recent acquisition of PandoLogic contains contingent consideration, the value of which may impact future operating results. We plan to expand our international operations, which exposes us to significant risks. Our business has been affected by the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, and the continuing impacts of COVID-19 in the future are highly unpredictable. Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our operations to pay our substantial debt obligations. Unfavorable conditions in our industry or the global markets, or reductions in consumer spending, could limit our ability to grow our business and negatively affect our operating results. Risks Related to the Development and Operation of Our aiWARE Platform We may not be able to enhance our products or introduce new products that achieve market acceptance and keep pace with technological developments. Our competitors, partners or others may acquire third party technologies used in our platform, which could result in them blocking us from using the technology in our platform, or these third-party technology providers may otherwise terminate their relationships with us. We rely on third parties to develop AI models for our platform and in some cases to integrate them with our platform. We may not be able to develop a strong brand for our platform or increase market awareness of our company and our platform. We may experience interruptions or performance problems associated with our technology and infrastructure, or that of our third party service providers. The security of our platform, networks or computer systems may be breached, resulting in unauthorized access to our customer data. iii Risks Related to Target Markets, Competition and Customers The success of our business depends on our ability to expand into new vertical markets and attract new customers in a cost-effective manner. Recent and proposed laws regarding the use of facial recognition technology could adversely impact the demand for certain of our products. We may not be able to compete effectively in providing our Software Products & Services. Our subsidiary, PandoLogic, Ltd., generates substantial revenue from a single customer and the loss of such customer may harm our business, results of operations and financial results. Technological advances may significantly disrupt the labor market and weaken demand for human capital at a rapid rate. Significant segments of the market for talent acquisition software and services may have hiring needs and service preferences that are subject to greater volatility than the overall economy. We currently generate significant revenue from a limited number of key customers, and we may lose one or more of these key customers. Our sales efforts related to our Software Products & Services involve considerable time and expense, and our sales cycle is often long and unpredictable. We may not be able to remain competitive in providing our advertising services, and we may lose key advertising customers. Acquiring and retaining advertising customers depends on our ability to avoid and manage conflicts of interest arising from other customer relationships and attracting and retaining key personnel. Risks Related to Intellectual Property We face risks arising from our digital content licensing services, including potential liability resulting from claims by third parties for infringement or violation of copyrights, publicity or other rights, as well as indemnification claims by rights holders and customers. We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights. We could incur substantial costs in protecting or defending our intellectual property rights, and may not be able to protect our intellectual property. Our use of open source software could negatively affect our ability to sell our products and subject us to possible litigation. Risks Related to Human Capital Management We depend on our executive officers and other key employees, and we may lose one or more of these employees. We may not be able to hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel in the key areas in which we require highly skilled employees, such as engineering, sales and marketing. Risks Related to Regulatory Compliance Data protection and privacy laws and regulations could require us to make changes to our business, impose additional costs on us and reduce the demand for our software solutions. We could be subject to liability for historical and future sales, use and similar taxes. Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Securities and Our Public Company Operations Our common stock price has been extremely volatile and could continue to fluctuate widely in price, which could result in substantial losses for investors. If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired. iv We are an emerging growth company and a smaller reporting company under the U.S. federal securities laws, and the reduced reporting requirements applicable to emerging growth companies and smaller reporting companies could make our common stock less attractive to investors. We do not currently expect to pay any cash dividends. Our anti-takeover provisions could prevent or delay a change in control of our company, even if such change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees. Conversion or exercise of outstanding equity-lined securities may dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders or may otherwise depress the price of our common stock. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. v PART I Item 1. Business. Overview Veritone, Inc. (collectively with our subsidiaries, referred to as Veritone, Company, we, our, and us) is a leading provider of artificial intelligence (AI) computing solutions and services. We are driven by the belief that AI is key to building a safer, more vibrant, transparent and empowered society. Our mission is to be an active contributor to making the world better through AI. Our proprietary AI operating system, aiWARE TM , uses machine learning algorithms, or AI models, together with a suite of powerful applications, to reveal valuable insights from vast amounts of structured and unstructured data. Our aiWARE platform offers capabilities that mimic human cognitive functions such as perception, prediction and problem solving, enabling users to quickly, efficiently and cost effectively transform unstructured data into structured data, and analyze and optimize data to drive business processes and insights. aiWARE is based on an open architecture that enables new AI models, applications and workflows to be added quickly and efficiently, resulting in a future-proof, scalable and evolving solution that can be leveraged by organizations across a broad range of industries. We also offer cloud-native digital content management solutions and content licensing services, primarily to customers in the media and entertainment market. These offerings utilize aiWARE, providing customers with unique capabilities to enrich and drive expanded revenue opportunities from their content. In addition, we operate a full-service advertising agency that leverages aiWARE to provide differentiated managed services to our customers. Our advertising services include media planning and strategy, advertisement buying and placement, campaign messaging, clearance verification and attribution, and custom analytics, specializing in host-endorsed and influencer advertising across primarily radio, podcasting, streaming audio, social media and other digital media channels. Our advertising services also include our VeriAds Network, which is comprised of programs that enable broadcasters, podcasters and social media influencers to generate incremental advertising revenue. On September 14, 2021, we acquired PandoLogic. Ltd. (PandoLogic), a company incorporated under the laws of the state of Israel, which is a leading provider of intelligent hiring solutions and utilizes its proprietary platform, PandoIQ, to accelerate the time and improve the efficiency in the process for employers hiring at scale for both mass market and difficult-to-source candidates. PandoLogics fully autonomous recruiting platform helps employers source talent faster and more efficiently with predictive algorithms, machine learning and AI. We generate revenue primarily through the delivery of Software Products & Services across our Commercial Enterprise (Commercial Enterprise or CE) and Government and Regulated Industries (Government & Regulated Industries or GRI) divisions, and secondarily from Managed Services that today include the delivery of advertising and content licensing services within CE. Software Products & Services consists of revenues generated from CE and GRI customers using our aiWARE platform and PandoLogics talent acquisition software product solutions, any related support and maintenance services, and any related professional services associated with the deployment and/or implementation of such solutions. Managed Services consist of revenues generated from CE customers using our content licensing services and advertising agency and related services. Our presence is primarily in the United States of America and Israel. aiWARE Today, over 80% of new data created worldwide is unstructured, which is increasing at an annual growth rate of 30-60% per year, according to Gartner (2020 Strategic Roadmap for Storage, July 1, 2020). This creates significant challenges for companies and governments across the globe, including how to create systematic solutions to address the ever-increasing volume of unstructured data. Whether it is a local police department trying to rapidly solve crimes through analysis of video evidence, a media company searching years of television archives for specific images and video content, or the U.S. military trying to analyze huge volumes of satellite and other aerial images, we believe AI is the only efficient solution to these complex challenges. 1 To address the ever-growing challenges surrounding unstructured data, we developed aiWARE, our proprietary AI operating system. aiWARE orchestrates AI models, together with a suite of powerful applications, to reveal valuable insights from vast amounts of structured and unstructured data. aiWARE offers capabilities that mimic human cognitive functions such as perception, prediction, problem solving and optimization, enabling users to quickly, efficiently and cost effectively transform unstructured data into structured data, and analyze and optimize data to drive business processes and insights. aiWARE is based on an open architecture that enables new AI models, applications and workflows to be added quickly and efficiently, resulting in a future proof, scalable and evolving solution that can be easily leveraged by organizations in a broad range of industries that capture or use audio, video and other unstructured data, together with structured data, such as the media and entertainment, government, legal and compliance, energy and other vertical markets, driving down the cost, complexity and time to develop, deploy and distribute AI-enabled applications in their operations. Our aiWARE platform is offered primarily through a software-as-a-service (SaaS) delivery model and can be deployed in a number of environments and configurations to meet customers needs. Our aiWARE platform encompasses the following: Ingestion . We have built a scalable, source and type agnostic ingestion process that utilizes adapters, which are lightweight, pluggable software modules based on docker microservices, to capture a wide range of unstructured data, such as audio files, video files, images and documents, as well as structured data, such as public and private databases, from wherever they reside, to ingest them into our platform and normalize them for further processing, correlation and analytics. The open architecture of our solution also enables external developers to write these adapters to extend the platform to be able to ingest data of any type and from any source for their particular use cases. Orchestration and Cognitive Processing . Source data ingested into aiWARE can be processed through one or more AI models, which extract from and/or add useful metadata to structured and unstructured data. Our platform includes an innovative, open AI ecosystem that currently incorporates hundreds of AI models across over 20 different cognitive capabilities from multiple third-party vendors, including Amazon, Google, IBM and Microsoft, among others, as well as our own proprietary AI models, which use advanced algorithms to perform a variety of cognitive processes, including transcription, language translation, face detection, face recognition, object detection, object recognition, logo recognition, sentiment analysis, text keyword/topic analysis, audio/video fingerprinting, geolocation, visual moderation and optical character recognition, among others. Our open architecture allows us and third-party developers to easily integrate additional AI models within aiWARE, which makes our solution readily scalable for a broad range of processes and vertical markets. 2 Proprietary Indexing and Storage . The results of processed data are indexed and stored in a scalable, time-correlated temporal elastic database within aiWARE. This intelligent data lake gives us the unique ability to synthesize various disparate cognitive results in a cohesive, time-based format, and to dissect and analyze this information, producing a multi-dimensional index for ease of search, discovery and analytics, allowing users to access multivariate intelligence previously unattainable from their data. Our architecture leverages several commercial, open source, distributed and non-relational databases with proven scalability and performance characteristics. Integration. Through our self-service development environment, developers, including end customers, system integrators and application developers, can access our application programming interfaces (APIs) and developer tools, including Automate Studio, to rapidly build, integrate, deploy and operate AI models and AI-powered workflows and applications on aiWARE to satisfy specific use cases. Automate Studio is our low-code workflow designer that provides an intuitive drag-and-drop user interface to allow users to easily create intelligent workflows that leverage aiWAREs scalable, event-driven architecture and ecosystem of AI models, to design and operationalize AI-powered business processes at scale, without the need for in-depth coding skills or AI expertise. In addition, we recently integrated aiWARE with Alteryx, Inc.s (Alteryx) analytic process automation platform. Our AI tools are available for download by Alteryx users, allowing users to access and run our AI models within Alteryx and blend both structured data and unstructured data, including video, images, audio, sensor data, and text, to generate rapid AI-enabled analytics for greater insights and more informed decision making. Applications and Cognitive Analytics. We have developed a suite of core applications and several industry targeted applications, which are discussed in more detail below, to facilitate the use of our platform and enable users to unlock actionable insights from their diverse datasets. As noted above, the modular structure of aiWARE enables rapid development and deployment of applications that are relevant to the specific needs of different markets. This allows us and third parties to quickly and easily build and deploy new applications on top of our aiWARE architecture or integrate existing applications with aiWARE. aiWARE is available through multiple deployment models that can be configured to meet each customers specific requirements. These deployment models include fully cloud-based options hosted by us in Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Microsoft Azure (Azure) commercial and secure government cloud environments; on-premises options, which allow users to utilize aiWAREs cognitive processing and certain other capabilities in their controlled environment; and hybrid cloud/on-premises options, which give users of our on-premises capabilities the option to also connect to our services in the cloud, either to provision additional services to run within their controlled environment, or to use our additional cloud-based services to process data, search and analyze the results. We currently hold an Authorization to Operate (ATO) under the Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP) for our AWS secure government cloud platform to support government customers. Our current architecture gives us the flexibility to deploy many of aiWAREs capabilities in virtually any environment, including select arm64 architectures, with improved scalability and reliability. We are continuing to enhance the portability of aiWARE in order to provide substantially all of the features and functionality of the platform within any environment to meet our customers needs. Markets in Which We Operate In 2021, we realigned our organization to focus on two distinct markets: Commercial Enterprise, or CE, and Government & Regulated Industries, or GRI. We have developed several applications and services addressing specific customer use cases within these target markets. We intend to leverage the capabilities that we have developed for these key markets to expand into other markets in the future. We have identified numerous ways in which our aiWARE platform and related AI technology may be used to extract valuable insights from large volumes of data to solve real-world problems across a broad range of markets and applications. Commercial Enterprise CE today consists of customers in the commercial sector, including our media and entertainment customers, advertising customers, content licensing customers and PandoLogic customers. To date, the majority of our Software Products & Services and Managed Services revenue is generated from our CE customers. 3 Software Products & Services Software Products & Services used by our CE customers include: aiWARE Essentials . aiWARE Essentials is a bundled offering of our core applications which enables media broadcasters can ingest their live and archived media into aiWARE and run an array of AI models on the media to identify keywords, faces, logos and objects, enriching the content with additional metadata to allow it to be quickly and easily searched, analyzed, curated and shared in near real-time. aiWARE Essentials also includes advanced analytics features that allow users to customize their analytics dashboards and reports and generate live interactive charts with robust filtering capabilities and transforms the way these media broadcasters conduct their business by implementing AI-powered applications in their ad tracking and verification workflows, enabling them to provide advertisers with near real-time ad verification and integrated audience analytics. Attribute . Attribute is an AI-powered media attribution application that tracks the efficacy of advertising in broadcast radio and television. The application delivers customer behavior impact analytics from pre-recorded, native and organic mentions, enabling broadcasters to analyze the effect of an advertisers advertising placements. The application systematically verifies advertisements and mentions in broadcasts and correlates them with the advertisers website data and displays the correlated information in a media attribution dashboard. Attribute enables broadcasters to demonstrate an advertisers campaign effectiveness and reveal data-driven insights for optimization of ad placements to drive greater customer return on investment, helping to drive increases in customer advertising spending. Digital Media Hub . Digital Media Hub is a cloud-native, AI-enabled media management solution through which rights holders can ingest, manage and organize their content and offer global access to their content to key stakeholders, including news media and corporate partners, in a secure, permission-based cloud environment. Digital Media Hub offers intelligent search and discovery capabilities and robust reporting tools, which allow users to access content quickly, and allow rights holders to track downloads and understand what content is most important to users. PandoLogic . PandoIQ is a talent acquisition software platform which employers can use to accelerate the time and improve the efficiency in the process for hiring at scale for both mass market and difficult-to-source candidates. PandoLogics fully autonomous recruiting platform helps employers source talent faster and more efficiently with predictive algorithms by matching buyers and sellers of digital job advertising in a technology-driven marketplace. Veritone Voice . Veritone Voice is a synthetic voice solution that allows celebrities, athletes, influencers, broadcasters, podcasters and other talent across numerous industries to securely create and monetize verified synthetic voices that can be transformed into different languages, dialects, accents and more. In addition to a self-serve application for voice projects leveraging stock voices, Veritones voice solution offers custom synthetic voice cloning that takes a professional approach and works with clients to acquire the necessary training data to create hyper-realistic custom voice clones. Managed Services Managed Services used by our CE customers include: Content Licensing . We offer digital content licensing services, through which we manage and license content on behalf of leading rights holders to end users in the film, television, sports, and advertising industries. Content is licensed either through our own internally developed web portal, customer-branded web portals or other licensing arrangements. We utilize aiWAREs cognitive capabilities to enable richer and more efficient searching of content, allowing users to quickly find and acquire content for their projects. Media Agency Services . We operate a full service media advertising agency. Our services include media planning and strategy, media buying and placement, campaign messaging, clearance verification and attribution, and custom analytics. We leverage our aiWARE platform to help our advertising customers improve their media placements and maximize the return on their advertising spending using real-time ad verification and media analytics. VeriAds Network . Our VeriAds Network is comprised of three programs that enable radio and television broadcasters, podcasters and social media influencers to generate incremental advertising revenue from premium advertisers, and enable these advertisers to expand their audience reach through unique ad units and new influencer avenues: 4 o Spot Network . Similar to traditional broadcast network programs, the Spot Network provides access to run-of-schedule and dayparted ad units for radio and television advertisements from broadcaster participants. o MicroMentions . MicroMentions is an on-demand live read ad unit solution that gives broadcasters the opportunity to execute 10, 15 or 30 second ads outside of their scheduled ad inventory on a guaranteed CPM (cost per thousand) basis. MicroMentions leverages aiWARE to programmatically manage clearance and verification of, and provide near real-time analytics for, these live reads. o Influencer Bridge . Influencer Bridge is a pay-per-performance advertising program that enables audio and video content creators, including podcast, Instagram and YouTube influencers, to monetize their content through CPA (cost per action) advertisements by pairing them with premium brands looking to expand their audience reach through new influencer avenues. Using aiWARE, we can analyze content of podcast episodes and YouTube videos included in the Influencer Bridge program to help identify new contextually relevant advertising opportunities for premier brands based on the subject matter presented, as well as to provide insights for brand safety and content transparency. Government and Regulated Industries GRI today consists of customers in government and regulated industries, including our state, local and federal government, legal, compliance and energy customers. To date, a smaller portion of our historical revenue is generated from GRI customers; however, we believe that there are tremendous near and long term opportunities to grow our business in the GRI markets. The National Security Commission on Artificial Intelligence final report published in 2021 recommended that Congress fund $14 billion in Department of Defense AI initiatives and also called for doubling non-defense AI R&D to reach $36 billion by 2026. The U.S. General Services Administrations Artificial Intelligence Center of Excellence and the U.S. Department of Defenses Joint Artificial Intelligence Center have been created to speed the adoption of AI technologies by civilian and defense agencies, respectively, and the U.S. Departments of Energy and Veterans Affairs have opened their own AI research offices. In the energy market, according to Frost and Sullivan (Growth Opportunities from Decarbonization in the Global Power Market, 2019-2030), it is estimated that $3.4 trillion will be invested in renewable energy over the next 10 years. We believe that the applicability of our AI solutions will extend beyond utilities and across the global $1.5 trillion electric energy market (inspirecleanenergy.com, Understanding the Energy Market, March 2017), including improved optimization to reduce energy production lost, which we have estimated to be over $21 billion in the U.S. annually over the last 10 years based on data published by the U.S. Energy Information Administration (Frequently Asked Questions, https://www.eia.gov/tools/faqs/index.php). We also believe there are increasing opportunities to provide our AI-powered solutions to address the needs of customers in the state and local government, legal and compliance markets, including law enforcement, legal and judicial professionals, and companies and regulatory bodies in highly regulated industries. Law enforcement and other government agencies regularly accumulate large amounts of unstructured audio and video data, including from police body cameras, police car recorders, interview room cameras, 911 audio tapes and surveillance cameras. Historically, in most cases, investigators have had to review audio and video data manually, a task that consumes huge amounts of time and delays investigations. In addition, public agencies are required to provide certain information, including in many cases audio and video files, in response to requests from the public. Recently, statutes in several states have broadened the scope of information required to be disclosed and have shortened the time periods in which such disclosures must be made. Reviewing video footage to identify and authenticate the appropriate footage to be disclosed, and to redact facial images and other sensitive information prior to disclosure, have historically been time-consuming and largely manual processes. Today, law enforcement and other government agencies can leverage our aiWARE platform and applications to organize, review, analyze and gain insight from their various data sources to greatly enhance their investigative workflows and to support their public disclosure requirements. Within the legal market, our AI technologies support eDiscovery, the process of identifying, collecting and producing electronically stored information, where audio and video content analysis is playing an increasingly important role in civil litigation and criminal proceedings. Our aiWARE platforms applications and cognitive capabilities enable users to quickly search and analyze large volumes of audio files, video files, text-based documents and other electronically stored information to identify particular words, phrases, faces, objects and voices, and to redact sensitive information prior to production, greatly increasing the speed, reducing the cost, and improving the results of discovery processes. AI is also revolutionizing the way the world produces, transmits, and consumes energy. We have developed a suite of solutions that enable our GRI customers in the energy market, including utility companies, equipment providers, battery providers and independent energy aggregators, to optimize and synchronize the energy grid, using predictive AI to make clean energy more predictable, efficient, safe, reliable and cost effective. Our energy solutions power next generation smart grids by continuously collecting and synthesizing large amounts of data, empowering utilities to predict optimal energy supply mix and pricing to meet grid demand and ensure grid reliability and resiliency. 5 Software Products & Services used by our GRI customers include: aiWARE Anywhere. aiWARE Anywhere provides deployment options for our production-proven aiWARE platform that lets customers harness the power of AI anywhere, any time. It provides a common software infrastructure that lets customers use end-to-end, AI-powered solutions from data ingestion to intelligent data analysis in either general or industry-specific applications. aiWARE Anywhere deployment options include on-premises, in the Veritone cloud, or in a private cloud depending on our customer needs. IDentify . Our IDentify application is a powerful AI-driven tool that enables law enforcement and judicial agencies to increase the speed and efficiency of investigative workflows. IDentify allows users to upload and maintain booking and known offender databases in aiWARE and use facial recognition technology to automatically compare these databases with video and photographic evidence, such as footage from body cameras, dash cameras and CCTV surveillance cameras, to identify potential suspects for further investigation. IDentify gives agencies a powerful tool to augment their investigative workflows, saving valuable time and resources and helping them solve cases faster. Illuminate . Our Illuminate application provides users with an effective means of searching voluminous sets of media and electronic documents to support eDiscovery efforts, and particularly their early case assessment efforts. This application allows users to rapidly ingest, process and search large volumes of audio, video, image and text-based documents, to identify and segregate relevant evidence for further review and analysis. Illuminates text analytics capabilities allow users to visually explore entities, such as the persons, organizations and locations identified in the data. Once processed and reviewed through the application, users are able to transfer a relevant subset of media and documents to our Redact application if redaction is necessary or export it for transfer to their eDiscovery or case management platform for further processing and workflows. Redact . Our Redact application enables law enforcement and judicial agencies to leverage AI to automate the redaction of faces and other sensitive information within audio, video and image-based evidence, significantly streamlining their redaction workflows. Redact employs AI technology to automatically detect when persons appear in evidence for review and selection. Users can also define other sensitive items appearing in video evidence and choose to automatically track the defined items for redaction throughout the video or at a single time stamp. The application then systematically obscures selected portions of the data in the evidence. With Redact, agencies can complete their review and redaction of evidence in a fraction of the amount of time spent on manual processes, freeing up valuable resources while also complying with stringent disclosure requirements. Contact . Our Contact application eases the time commitment and burden of complying with racial and identity profiling stop data collection requirements in California and offers ways to gather additional insight for agency needs. Developed in close collaboration with the California State DOJ as well as key city law enforcement agencies, this intelligent stop data collection application greatly reduces officer data collection time, minimizes review effort, and provides command staff immediate insight for training and other constituent transparency initiatives. iDERMS . Our intelligent distributed energy resource management system is a software application used to forecast, optimize, and control distributed energy resources (DERs). It allows utilities, independent power producers, and microgrid developers to confidently balance demand and supply and maximize their DER investments. Sales and Marketing Software Products & Services We conduct sales and marketing activities related to our Software Products & Services through a combination of our direct sales force and indirect channel partners such as value-added resellers (VARs), distributors, system integrators, managed services providers and referral partners. Our direct sales organization is comprised of teams of business development managers, account executives and sales managers, who are supported by sales development representatives, sales engineers, solutions architects and other inside sales personnel. These sales teams are generally organized based on their specialized knowledge and expertise within each of our target markets. Our sales team collaborates closely with our product marketing, management and development teams to evaluate and develop solutions to address the needs of customers. We have also established, and we intend to continue to expand, an indirect sales channel comprised of VARs, distributors and referral partners. We have entered into agreements with channel partners located in the United States and internationally. These agreements generally provide the channel partners with discounts below our standard prices, have terms of one year which automatically renew on an annual basis, and are generally terminable by either party for convenience following a specified notice period. Substantially all of our agreements with channel partners are nonexclusive; however, we allow channel partners to register sales opportunities through our deal registration program, in which case we may grant a channel partner priority to pursue an opportunity for a specified period of time, subject to certain conditions. 6 Managed Services We conduct sales and marketing activities relating to our digital content licensing Managed Services business through our direct sales representatives, who identify, develop and manage our relationships with strategic CE customers in the advertising, entertainment/documentary and network broadcasting industries. We maintain our commerce web portal, where stock content and select libraries can be licensed and downloaded directly, but the majority of our business is driven through high-value libraries that require an approval process in order to gain access. We also cross-sell additional products and services, including media management and aiWARE, to our content licensor partners. We market and sell our advertising Managed Services through a combination of our direct sales and indirect channel sales. We primarily market and sell directly to advertisers through outbound sales networking and client and partner referrals. Our indirect sales channel consists of referral partners who are mainly advertising agencies or marketing consultants who are unable to provide certain services to their clients, such as radio, podcast and YouTube placements. In addition to our sales efforts for new clients, we further expand sales opportunities and upsell through our campaign strategists who work directly with our advertising clients to optimize and enhance media spending on advertising campaigns. Customers Software Products & Services We market and sell our Software Products & Services to customers in the CE and GRI markets. During 2021, ten customers accounted for approximately 81% of the total revenues from our Software Products & Services, with one customer accounting for approximately 57% of the total revenues from Software Products & Services. As we continue to grow our revenues from our Software Products & Services across our markets, we believe that our dependence on any single customer or group of customers will be reduced. Managed Services We market and sell our advertising Managed services to customers that make significant investments in advertising, particularly in native and spot-based advertising campaigns delivered over broadcast radio, satellite audio, streaming audio, podcasting, digital video services and other social media channels. During 2021, ten advertising customers accounted for approximately 43% of the total revenues from our Managed Services, with one customer accounting for approximately 11% of the total Managed Services revenues. We market and sell our content licensing Managed Services to customers such as major sports networks, advertising agencies, and film production companies that require high value content for their broadcasts and projects. During 2021, ten customers accounted for approximately 8% of the total revenues from our content licensing Managed Services. Competition Software Products & Services The market for AI-enabled solutions is rapidly evolving and highly competitive, with new AI capabilities and solutions introduced by both large established players that target multiple vertical markets or enterprise functions, as well as smaller emerging companies developing point solutions that generally only address a single cognitive category or a specific industry segment. We believe the following competitive attributes are necessary for us to successfully compete in the AI industry for CE and GRI customers for our Software Products & Services: Applications to enable our platform to be effectively leveraged for a wide variety of use cases; Ability to seamlessly utilize multiple AI models in the same and different classes; Breadth and depth of cognitive processing and other AI capabilities; Performance of AI models, particularly accuracy and speed; Availability of cloud-based and on-premises deployment models and functionality; Ease of deployment and integration; Platform scalability, reliability and security; and Cost of deploying and using our products. 7 We believe that we compete favorably on the basis of the factors listed above. We believe that few of our competitors currently compete directly with us across all of our cognitive capabilities and vertical markets, and that none of our competitors currently deploy an AI operating system with an open ecosystem comprised of a comparable number of multiple proprietary and third party AI models that can be accessed by customers from a single integrated platform. Competitors for our Software Products & Services fall into the following primary categories: Infrastructure-based cloud computing vendors offering cognitive processing services via APIs, such as IBM Watson via IBM Cloud, Microsoft Cognitive Services via Azure and Amazon Machine Learning via AWS; Smaller AI-focused vendors offering solutions within a single cognitive category such as facial recognition, object recognition, or natural language processing; Enterprise services and solutions providers that combine their services with technology developed in-house to address specific challenges for organizations, such as Palantir and C3.ai; System integrators that aggregate and integrate solutions from multiple underlying providers of cognitive services for clients, such as Accenture and Deloitte Consulting; and Providers of hardware and/or software solutions serving a particular market, which are incorporating into their solutions automated processing, search and/or data analytics capabilities that provide functionality similar to our industry targeted applications, including the following: o In the media and entertainment market, providers of digital asset management systems; o In the public safety market, providers of police body cameras and car recorders and associated content storage and management systems; and o In the legal market, providers of eDiscovery solutions and/or associated hosting and managed services. Managed Services Competitors of our Managed Services are mainly traditional advertising agencies that are either large full-service agencies or smaller niche agencies with a particular specialization or focus, such as radio media placement or podcast advertising, as well as large consulting firms in the media industry. We believe that we currently, and will continue to, compete successfully against our competitors on several key factors. We are a leader in endorsed radio and podcast advertising services, and we leverage our platform to provide our customers with innovative technology that we believe provides them with better analytics and insights into their advertising campaigns than our competitors for superior advertising performance and optimization. We do not currently face significant competition from third parties for our content licensing Managed Services, particularly in North America; however, many content owners choose to manage the licensing of their content in-house, and content owners that we currently represent may choose to license their content directly in the future. We believe that we may face more competition in North America if new content licensing companies emerge or expand their business in the region. As we expand our content licensing services to international markets, we believe that we may face greater competition from established content licensing and talent management companies. We believe that our ability to use the cognitive capabilities of aiWARE to enrich and enhance the searchability of content, and to leverage relationships with existing customers and vendors across our Managed Services business, gives us a competitive advantage over other content licensing companies and allows us to achieve greater benefits for content owners than they can achieve through their own in-house efforts. Research and Development Our research and development organization is comprised of employees who are responsible for the design, development and testing of our AI and software solutions, including software engineers, quality engineers, data scientists, data engineers, product managers and user experience designers. Our research and development organization is generally organized in teams, with one team focused on our core aiWARE architecture and capabilities and other teams focused on solutions and applications that address specific use cases in our key markets. We focus our efforts on developing new features and expanding the core technologies that further enhance the usability, functionality, reliability, performance and flexibility of aiWARE, as well as allow us to operate in new vertical markets. In addition, we contract with select third-party engineering services to support development and quality assurance testing. We plan to continue to make significant investments in developing our AI technologies, expanding the functionality and capabilities of aiWARE and related solutions, and building new software capabilities. 8 Intellectual Property We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as license agreements and other contractual protections, to protect our proprietary technology. We also rely on a number of registered and unregistered trademarks to protect our brand. As of March 9, 2022, in the United States, we had 32 issued patents, which expire between 2027 and 2040, and had 10 patent applications pending for examination. As of such date, we also had 12 issued patents and 29 patent applications pending for examination in foreign jurisdictions (including international PCT applications), all of which are based on counterpart U.S. patent applications pursued by us. In addition, we have registered, or have applied for registration of, numerous trademarks, including Veritone and aiWARE, in the United States and in several foreign jurisdictions. We seek to protect our intellectual property rights by implementing a policy that requires our employees and independent contractors involved in development of intellectual property on our behalf to enter into agreements acknowledging that all works or other intellectual property generated or conceived by them on our behalf are our property, and assigning to us any rights, including intellectual property rights, that they may claim or otherwise have in those works or property, to the extent allowable under applicable law. Regulatory Environment We are subject to a number of U.S. federal and state and foreign laws and regulations that involve matters central to our business. These laws and regulations involve privacy, data protection, intellectual property, competition, consumer protection and other subjects. Our customers utilize our products and services to process, analyze and store data, which may contain personal information that is subject to data protection and privacy laws in various jurisdictions including the European Union General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) and similar laws and regulations in other jurisdictions, including the United Kingdom and other states within the United States. Under these data protection and privacy laws, we are required to maintain appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure the security and protection of personal data and information, and we must comply (either directly or indirectly in support of our customers compliance efforts, as provided for in our contracts with customers) with a number of requirements with respect to individuals whose personal data or information we collect and process, including, among others, notification requirements and requirements to comply with requests from individuals to (i) opt out of collection, processing and/or sale of their data or information, (ii) delete their data or information, and (iii) receive copies of and other information regarding our collection and processing of their data or information. The California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA), which will take effect on January 1, 2023, amends and expands the CCPA to include additional obligations of businesses with respect to collecting, processing and sharing personal information and responding to requests from consumers related to their personal information. We will be obligated to comply with the CPRA and the regulations to be implemented thereunder commencing in January 2023. Human Capital Resources As of February 28, 2022, we had a total of 546 employees, substantially all of whom were full-time employees. We believe that our employees are our greatest asset and our company culture is a critical component of our success. We strive to create a work environment in which all employees feel a strong sense of community and embody our core values. We have implemented a number of initiatives to ensure that our employees are engaged and motivated to work hard, and have fun at the same time. We conduct employee engagement surveys to gauge employee satisfaction, identify areas for improvement and implement positive change to evolve and better our company culture. We strive to hire, develop and retain the top talent in the industry. To attract top talent, we strive to offer competitive salaries, incentives, equity compensation and benefits. We conduct a regular quarterly talent review process, in which we obtain employee feedback, evaluate performance, and establish goals, objectives and development plans for all employees. We continuously monitor and evaluate employee turnover to identify and address areas of concern to improve employee retention. Company Information We were incorporated as a Delaware corporation on June 13, 2014. Our corporate headquarters are located at 2420 17 th Street, Office 3002, Denver, Colorado 80202. Our telephone number is (888) 507-1737. Our principal website address is www.veritone.com. The information provided on, or accessible through, our website is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, nor is such information incorporated by reference herein, and such information should not be relied upon in determining whether to make an investment in our common stock. 9 Available Information This Annual Report on Form 10-K and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are available free of charge on the investor relations section of our website at investors.veritone.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. We will also provide electronic or paper copies of such reports free of charge, upon request made to our Corporate Secretary at 2420 17 th Street, Office 3002, Denver, Colorado 80202. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. We use our investor relations website as a channel of distribution for important company information, including news and commentary about our business and financial performance, webcasts of our earnings calls and investor events, SEC filings, and corporate governance information, including information regarding our board of directors, our board committee charters and code of ethics. The information provided on, or accessible through, our investor relations website is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, nor is such information incorporated by reference herein, and such information should not be relied upon in determining whether to make an investment in our common stock. Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following is a summary of certain risks we face in our business. They are not the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. In assessing these risks, investors should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Certain statements contained in this section constitute forward-looking statements. See the information included in Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements on page ii of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Financial Condition Our efforts to expand our aiWARE SaaS business may not be successful. In order for us to grow our business and achieve profitability, we must expand our revenue base by expanding our customer base and increasing our business with existing customers. We may not be able to succeed with respect to these efforts. Many factors may adversely affect our ability to grow the business for our aiWARE platform, including but not limited to : Failure to add market-specific applications to our aiWARE platform with sufficient levels of capability to provide compelling benefits to users in our target vertical markets; Failure to add AI models with sufficient levels of capability or trainability into our platform, difficulties integrating AI models, loss of access to, or increases in the cost of, AI models; Inability to expand the number of AI models in different classes that can operate in a network-isolated manner, which would limit the capabilities of aiWARE available in our FedRAMP environment or under private cloud, on-premises and hybrid deployment models; Difficulties in adding technical capabilities to our platform and ensuring future compatibility of additional third party providers; Failure to articulate the perceived benefits of our solution, or to generate broad customer acceptance of or interest in our solutions; Introduction of competitive offerings by larger, better financed and more well-known companies; Introduction of new products or technologies that have performance and/or cost advantages over our aiWARE platform; Inability to integrate our platform with products of other companies to pursue particular vertical markets, or the failure of such relationships to achieve their anticipated benefits; Long and complex sales cycles, particularly for customers in the government and energy markets; and Challenges in operating our platform on secure government cloud platforms and complying with government security requirements. 10 If we fail to develop a successful business for our aiWARE platform , our business, results of operations and financial condition will suffer. The market for AI-based software applications is new and unproven and may decline or experience limited growth, and concerns over the use of AI may hinder the adoption of AI technologies, which would adversely affect our ability to fully realize the potential of our platform. The market for AI-based software applications is relatively new and evaluating the size and scope of the market is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. We believe that our future success will depend in large part on the growth of this market. The utilization of our platform by customers is still relatively new, and customers may not recognize the need for, or benefits of, our platform, which may prompt them to cease use of our platform or decide to adopt alternative products and services to satisfy their cognitive computing, search and analytics requirements. Our ability to access and extend our position in the markets that our platform is designed to address depends upon a number of factors, including the cost, performance and perceived value of our platform. Market opportunity estimates are subject to significant uncertainty and are based on assumptions and estimates, including our internal analysis and industry experience. Assessing the market for our solutions is particularly difficult for several reasons, including limited available information and rapid evolution of the market. In addition, as with many developing technologies, AI presents risks and challenges that could hinder its further development, adoption and use in the markets that we serve. AI algorithms may be flawed, datasets may be insufficient or contain biased information, and the results and analyses that our AI solutions assist in producing may be deficient or inaccurate. Further, use of AI technologies in certain scenarios present ethical concerns. Though our technologies and business practices are designed to mitigate many of these risks, if we enable or offer AI solutions that produce deficient or inaccurate results and analyses, or that are controversial due to human rights, privacy or other social issues, we may experience lower-than-expected demand for our products and services, or competitive, brand or reputational harm. If the market for AI-based solutions does not experience significant growth, or if demand for our platform does not increase in line with our projections, then our business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. We may require additional capital to support our business growth, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business, including the acquisition of complementary businesses or technologies, which may require additional funds. Accordingly, we may engage in equity and/or debt financings to secure additional funds If we raise additional funds through future issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing that we may secure in the future could involve debt service obligations and restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth, scale our infrastructure, develop product enhancements and to respond to business challenges could be significantly impaired, and our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly and period-to-period comparisons of our results may not be meaningful. Our quarterly results, including the levels of our revenue, our operating expenses and other costs, and our operating margins, may fluctuate significantly in the future, and period-to-period comparisons of our results may not be meaningful. Accordingly, the results of any one period should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. In addition, our quarterly results may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business. Factors that may cause fluctuations in our quarterly results include, but are not limited to: variations in the timing of revenues from our Software Products & Services, including PandoLogic, which experiences seasonal fluctuations in revenue consistent with the hiring cycles of its customers, and as a result of factors such as the timing of large projects, the length and complexity of our sales cycles and trends impacting our target vertical markets, and our revenue recognition policies and any changes thereto; variations in the timing of revenues from our content licensing services and our live event services as a result of factors such as timing of major sporting events throughout the year, or the postponement or cancellation of such events, and our revenue recognition policies and any changes thereto; the timing of advertising campaigns with our advertising clients; 11 seasonal factors affecting demand for our products or potential customers purchasing decisions , especially with regard to employer customers utilizing our talent acquisition software and services which we acquired from PandoLogic; continued strong demand for talent acquisition software and services in the U.S. and globally; the extent to which new customers are attracted to our talent acquisition software and services to satisfy their hiring needs; changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; the amount and timing of operating expenses and other costs related to the maintenance and expansion of our business, infrastructure and operations; the amount and timing of operating expenses and other costs associated with marketing and sales efforts to acquire new customers and assessing or entering new vertical markets; the amount and timing of operating expenses and other costs related to the development or acquisition of businesses, services, technologies or intellectual property rights; the timing and impact of security breaches, service outages or other performance problems with our technology infrastructure and software solutions; the timing and costs associated with legal or regulatory actions; changes in the competitive dynamics of our industry, including consolidation among competitors, strategic partners or customers; industry conditions and trends that are specific to the vertical markets in which we sell or intend to sell our solutions; and general economic and market conditions. Fluctuations in quarterly results may negatively impact the value of our common stock, regardless of whether they impact or reflect the overall performance of our business. If our quarterly results fall below the expectations of investors or any securities analysts who follow our stock, or below any guidance we may provide, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Certain of our operating results and financial metrics are difficult to predict as a result of seasonality . Our PandoLogic talent acquisition software and services have historically experienced seasonality in terms of when we enter into customer agreements for our products and services. Consistent with the hiring patterns of our customers, a higher percentage of related revenue is earned in the fourth quarter of each year. Within a given quarter, often a significant portion of our agreements are signed toward the end of the quarter. This seasonality is reflected to a lesser extent in our revenue due to the fact that we generally recognize subscription revenue over the term of the customer agreement. We expect this seasonality to continue, which may cause fluctuations in certain of our operating results and financial metrics, and thus difficulties in predictability of our operating results. We have had a history of losses and we may be unable to sustain profitability. We experienced net losses of $51.1 million, $47.9 million, and $62.1 million in fiscal years 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively. As of December 31, 2021, we had an accumulated deficit of $331.1 million. We only recently began to generate a profit, on a non-GAAP basis, and we may not be able to sustain profitability in the future or at all. We expect to continue to expend substantial financial and other resources on, among other things: investments to expand and enhance our platform and technology infrastructure, make improvements to the scalability, availability and security of our aiWARE platform, and develop new products; sales and marketing, including expanding our direct sales organization and marketing programs, and expanding our programs directed at increasing our brand awareness among current and new customers; hiring additional employees; expansion of our operations and infrastructure, both domestically and internationally; and general administration, including legal, accounting and other expenses. 12 These investments may not result in increased revenue or growth of our business. We may not be able to generate net revenues sufficient to offset our expected cost increases and planned investments in our business and platform. As a result, we may incur significant losses for the foreseeable future, and may not be able to achieve and sustain profitability. If we fail to achieve and sustain profitability, then we may not be able to achieve our business plan, fund our business or continue as a going concern. Failure to manage our growth effectively could increase our expenses, decrease our revenue and prevent us from implementing our business strategy. We expect to continue to achieve substantial growth in our business, which will put a strain on our management and financial resources. To manage this and our anticipated future growth effectively, we must continue to maintain and enhance our aiWARE platform and information technology infrastructure, as well as our financial and accounting systems and controls. We also must attract, train and retain a significant number of qualified software developers and engineers, data scientists, technical and management personnel, sales and marketing personnel, customer support personnel and professional services personnel. Failure to effectively manage our rapid growth could lead us to over-invest or under-invest in development and operations, result in weaknesses in our platform, systems or controls, give rise to operational mistakes, losses, loss of productivity or business opportunities and result in loss of employees and reduced productivity of remaining employees. Our growth could require significant capital expenditures and might divert financial resources from other projects such as the development of new products and services. If our management is unable to effectively manage our growth, our expenses might increase more than expected, our revenue could decline or grow more slowly than expected, and we might be unable to implement our business strategy. The quality of our products and services might suffer, which could negatively affect our reputation and harm our ability to retain and attract customers. We intend to continue to pursue the acquisition of other companies, businesses or technologies, which could be expensive, divert our managements attention, fail to achieve the expected benefits and/or expose us to other risks or difficulties. As part of our growth strategy, we have acquired, and we intend to continue to acquire, businesses, services, technologies or intellectual property rights that we believe could complement, expand or enhance the features and functionality of our aiWARE platform and our technical capabilities, broaden our service offerings or offer growth opportunities. In September 2021, we closed our acquisition of PandoLogic, a leading provider of intelligent hiring solutions that utilizes AI to accelerate the time and improve the efficiency in the process for employers hiring at scale for both mass market and difficult-to-source candidates. The pursuit of potential future acquisitions may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur various expenses in identifying, investigating and pursuing suitable acquisitions, whether or not such acquisitions are consummated. Acquisitions also could result in dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses, impairment of goodwill and/or purchased long-lived assets, and restructuring charges, any of which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition, we may face risks or experience difficulties in: effectively managing the combined business following the acquisition; managing any international operations of the acquired business; implementing operations, technologies, controls, procedures, and/or policies at the acquired company; integrating the acquired companys accounting, human resource, and other administrative systems, and coordination of product, engineering, and sales and marketing functions; transitioning operations, users, and customers onto our existing platforms; harm to our existing relationships with partners, distributors, and customers, including as a result of competing in the markets in which such parties operate; the potential loss of key employees and customers ; obtaining any required approvals on a timely basis, if at all, from governmental authorities, or conditions placed upon approval that could, among other things, delay or prevent us from completing a transaction, or otherwise restrict our ability to realize the expected financial or strategic goals of an acquisition or other strategic transaction; cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization, and retention of employees from the businesses we acquire; volatility in earnings due to changes in contingent consideration related to acquisition earn-out liability estimates; achieving anticipated cross-selling opportunities and eliminating any redundant operations with respect to the acquired business; 13 liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including intellectual property infringement claims, privacy issues, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities, and other known and unknown liabilities; and litigation or other claims in connection with the acquisition of the acquired company, including claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders, or other third parties. We also may not achieve the anticipated benefits from the acquired business and may incur unanticipated costs and liabilities in connection with any such acquisitions. Additionally, if we are unable to complete an acquisition, we could lose market share to competitors who are able to make such an acquisition. Once an acquisition is closed, we may discover hidden costs, resource demands and potential liabilities that were not evident throughout the due diligence process, particularly when such process is undertaken on an accelerated timeline. Although we have begun utilizing representation and warranty insurance and regularly use standard indemnity provision in these acquisition transactions, if we are unable to successfully assert a claim, if a claim is not covered by insurance or if these hidden costs prove greater than expected, our operations as a whole may be adversely affected. In addition, a significant portion of the purchase price of companies we acquire may be allocated to acquired goodwill and other intangible assets, which must be assessed for impairment at least annually. If any of these results occurs, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. Our recent acquisition of PandoLogic contains contingent consideration, the value of which may impact future operating results. Our recent acquisition of PandoLogic includes contingent earn-out consideration, the fair value of a portion of which is estimated based on a Monte Carlo simulation model. These fair value estimates contain unobservable inputs and estimates that could materially differ from the actual future results. The fair value of the contingent earn-out consideration could increase or decrease, up to the contracted limit, as applicable. Changes in the fair value of contingent earn-outs will be reflected in our results of operations in the period in which they are recognized, the amount of which may be material and cause volatility in our operating results. We plan to expand our international operations, which exposes us to significant risks. As part of our growth strategy, we plan to expand our operations internationally. We have an office in Israel, and we expect, in the future, to open offices and hire employees in additional locations outside of the United States to reach new customers and gain access to additional technical talent. Operating in international markets requires significant resources and management attention and will subject us to additional regulatory, economic and political risks. Because of our limited experience with international operations as well as developing and managing sales in international markets, our international expansion efforts may not be successful. In addition, we will face risks in doing business internationally that could adversely affect our business, including, but not limited to: the difficulty of managing and staffing international operations and the increased operating, travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with numerous international locations; the need to establish and manage additional instances of our aiWARE platform in other countries; our ability to effectively price our products in competitive international markets; the need to adapt and localize our products for specific countries and to offer customer support in various languages; difficulties in understanding and complying with U.S. and foreign laws, regulations and customs relating to U.S. companies operating in foreign jurisdictions; ensuring compliance with export controls, economic sanctions and anti-corruption laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and UK Bribery Act; currency exchange rate fluctuations and related effects on our revenues and expenses and customer demand for our services; the cost and potential outcomes of any international claims or litigation; adverse tax consequences and tax rulings; economic and political instability in some countries; difficulties in understanding and complying with local laws, regulations and customs in foreign jurisdictions, particularly in the areas of data privacy and personal privacy, employment and tax; and 14 more limited protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations, and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business has been affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, and the continuing impacts of COVID-19 are highly unpredictable and could have a significant adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows in the future. The COVID-19 outbreak emerged in late 2019 and was declared a global pandemic by the World Health Organization in March 2020. Governments around the world have instituted measures to control the spread of COVID-19, including quarantines, stay at home orders, restrictions on public gatherings and travel, and restrictions and/or closures of schools and non-essential businesses. The extent of these measures has fluctuated over the past two years, as certain regions have experienced declines only to be followed by increases in the number of cases and severity of the outbreak in those same regions. The COVID-19 pandemic has had, and will likely continue to have, a severe negative impact on the global economy. Although many countries have robust vaccination programs underway, many other countries are facing challenges in obtaining and distributing vaccines and new variants of COVID-19 have been identified leading to the further spread of the virus; as a result, it is uncertain how quickly and effectively such vaccinations will ultimately help to control the spread of COVID-19. The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business remain uncertain and difficult to predict, but may include, without limitation, the following, each of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows: We have experienced, and may continue to experience, reduced demand for certain of our products and services from customers whose businesses have been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. For example, beginning in March 2020, we began to experience fluctuations in demand for our Managed Services due to the cancellation or postponement of major live sporting events in the United States due to COVID-19. While many major sporting events have resumed, future cancellations of live sporting events could have a material adverse impact on our revenue generated from our Managed Services in future quarters. In addition, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, delays by certain customers in making purchase decisions for our products and services due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on their businesses, including changes in priorities and/or budget allocations, resulting in longer sales cycles and loss of sales. The COVID-19 pandemic has also resulted in significant levels of unemployment in the United States which may affect the overall demand for our PandoLogic talent acquisition software and services. Additionally, certain industry sectors that comprise part of our customer base and spend heavily on talent recruitment may see prolonged financial difficulties that may result in further delays or reductions in talent acquisition software and services spending. We could experience disruptions in our operations as a result of continued office closures and risks associated with our employees working remotely. In compliance with government mandates, we have temporarily closed our offices and initiated a remote work from home policy, which may limit the effectiveness and productivity of our employees. We may be unable to collect amounts due on billed and unbilled revenue if our customers delay payment or fail to pay us under the terms of our agreements as a result of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on their businesses. As a result, our cash flows could be adversely impacted, which could affect our ability to fund our operations. Our forecasted revenue, operating results and cash flows could vary materially from those we provide as guidance or from those anticipated by investors and analysts if the assumptions on which we base our financial projections are inaccurate as a result of the unpredictability of the impact that the COVID-19 pandemic will have on our business, our customers businesses and the global markets and economy. An increase in cyber incidents during the COVID-19 pandemic and our increased reliance on a remote workforce could increase our exposure to potential cybersecurity breaches and attacks. The ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows is dependent on future developments, including the severity and duration of the pandemic, actions that have been and may be taken by governmental authorities, the impact on the businesses of our customers, and the duration of the resulting macroeconomic conditions, all of which are uncertain and are difficult to predict at this time. 15 Unfavorable conditions in our industry or the global markets, or reductions in consumer spending, could limit our ability to grow our business and negatively affect our operating results. Our operating results may vary based on the impact of changes in our industry or the global economy on us or our customers. The U.S. and other major international economies have historically undergone cyclical downturns that have resulted in a material weakening of the economy, tightened credit supply, a reduction in business confidence and activity, and other difficulties that may affect one or more of the industries to which we sell our products and services. In addition, developments such as the U.K. exit from the European Union, referred to as Brexit, evolving trade policies between the U.S. and other international trade partners, conflicts in Europe, the Middle East and elsewhere, and the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic have created many economic and political uncertainties that have impacted worldwide markets. These global economic and political conditions may impact our business in a number of ways. For example, our PandoLogic talent acquisition software and services are sold to businesses that fluctuate based on general economic and business conditions, particularly the overall demand for labor and the economic health of current and prospective employers. In addition, a portion of our talent acquisition software and services revenue is attributable to the number of users of our products at each of our customers, which in turn is influenced by the employment and hiring patterns of our customers and potential customers. To the extent that economic uncertainty or attenuated economic conditions cause our customers and potential customers to freeze or reduce their headcount, demand for our products and services may be negatively affected. These adverse conditions could result in reductions in sales of our applications, longer sales cycles, reductions in contract duration and value, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. In addition, economic recessions have historically resulted in overall reductions in spending on software and technology solutions as well as pressure from customers and potential customers for extended billing terms. If economic, political, or market conditions deteriorate, or if there is uncertainty around these conditions, our customers and potential customers may elect to decrease their software and technology solutions budgets by deferring or reconsidering product purchases, which would limit our ability to grow our business and negatively affect our operating results. Any of these events would likely have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial position. Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our operations to pay our substantial debt. We recently issued an aggregate principal amount of $201.3 million of convertible senior notes. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness, including the convertible senior notes, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not continue to generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations. Risks Related to the Development and Operation of Our aiWARE Platform If we are not able to enhance our products or introduce new products that achieve market acceptance and keep pace with technological developments, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Our ability to attract new customers and increase revenue from existing customers depends in part on our ability to enhance and improve our aiWARE platform and applications and introduce new products and features, including enhancements necessary to provide substantially all of the features and functionality of the platform within a private cloud or on-premises environment, as well as new applications to address additional customer use cases. The success of any enhancements or new products depends on several factors, including timely completion, adequate quality testing, actual performance quality, market-accepted pricing levels and overall market acceptance and demand. Enhancements and new products that we develop may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner, may contain defects, may have interoperability difficulties with our aiWARE platform, or may not achieve the market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenue. If we are unable to successfully enhance our aiWARE platform and applications to meet evolving customer requirements and develop new products and applications, or if our efforts to increase the usage of our aiWARE platform are more expensive than we expect, then our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. 16 Our competitors, partners or others may acquire third party technologies used in our aiWARE platform, which could result in them blocking us from using the technology in our aiWARE platform, offering it for free to the public or making it cost prohibitive for us to continue to incorporate their technologies in our platform, or these third party technology providers may otherwise terminate their relationships with us, which could adversely affect the functionality of our platform. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, incorporate and maintain high performing AI models on our platform. If any third party acquires an AI model that is on our platform, they may preclude us from using it as a component of our platform or make it more expensive for us to utilize. In addition, a third-party AI model provider may terminate its relationship with us or may otherwise cease to make its AI models available to us. In either case, if that AI model has unique capabilities or a significant performance advantage over other models and we are unable to identify a suitable replacement model, the interruption could cause us to lose customers. It is also possible that a third party acquirer of such technology could offer the AI models and technologies to the public as a free add-on capability, in which case certain of our customers would have less incentive to pay us for the use of our platform. If a key third party technology becomes unavailable to us or is impractical for us to continue to use, the functionality of our platform could be interrupted, and our expenses could increase as we search for an alternative technology. As a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected through the loss of customers, reputational harm and/or from increased operating costs. We rely on third parties to develop AI models for our platform and in some cases to integrate them with our platform. A key element of our aiWARE platform is the ability to incorporate and integrate AI models developed by multiple third-party vendors, and we plan to continue to increase the number of third-party AI models incorporated into our aiWARE platform in order to enhance the performance and power of our platform. As we work to add new AI models to our platform, we may encounter difficulties in identifying additional high-quality AI models (particularly high performing, specialized models), entering into agreements for their inclusion in our ecosystem on acceptable terms or at all and/or in coordinating and integrating their technologies into our system. We may incur additional costs to modify and adjust existing functionalities of our platform to accommodate multiple classes of AI models, without the assurance that such costs can be recouped by the additional revenues generated by the new capabilities. As aiWARE becomes more complex and as we release enhancements to our platform that require changes to AI models, we may not be able to integrate third-party AI models in a seamless or timely manner due to a number of factors, including incompatible software, lack of cooperation from developers, insufficient internal technical resources, platform security constraints, and the inability to secure the necessary licenses or legal authorizations required. In addition, we have established a self-service development environment in which such third party developers integrate their AI models onto our platform, and we will be dependent in part upon their ability to do so effectively and quickly. We may not have full control over the quality and performance of third-party providers, and therefore, any unexpected deficiencies or problems arising from these third-party providers may cause significant interruptions in the operation of our platform. The failure of third party developers to integrate their AI models seamlessly into our platform and/or provide reliable, scalable services may impact the reliability of our platform and harm our reputation and business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are not able to develop a strong brand for our aiWARE platform and increase market awareness of our company and our platform, then our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We believe that the success of our platform will depend in part on our ability to develop a strong brand identity for our Veritone, aiWARE and other service marks, and to increase the market awareness of our platform and its capabilities. We are still in the early development stage of our business and, as such, our brand is not yet well established. The successful promotion of our brand will depend largely on our continued marketing efforts and our ability to ensure that our technology provides the expected benefits to our customers. We also believe that it is important for us to be thought leaders in the AI-based cognitive computing market. Our brand promotion and thought leadership activities may not be successful or produce increased revenue. In addition, independent industry analysts often provide reviews of our platform and of competing products and services, which may significantly influence the perception of our aiWARE platform in the marketplace. If these reviews are negative or not as positive as reviews of our competitors products and services, then our brand may be harmed. The promotion of our brand also requires us to make substantial expenditures, and we anticipate that these expenditures will increase as our industry becomes more competitive and as we seek to expand into new markets. These higher expenditures may not result in any increased revenue or in revenue that is sufficient to offset the higher expense levels. If we do not successfully maintain and enhance our brand, then our business may not grow, we may see our pricing power reduced relative to competitors and we may lose customers, all of which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 17 Interruptions or performance problems associated with our technology and infrastructure, or that of our third party service providers including AWS and Azure, may adversely affect our business and operating results. Our business success depends in part on the ability of customers to access our Software Products & Services and Managed Services at any time and within an acceptable amount of time. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, disruptions, outages and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, introductions of new applications and functionality, software errors and defects, capacity constraints due to an increasing number of users accessing our platform or initiating large volumes of processing simultaneously, or security related incidents. In addition, we rely on third parties, including AWS and Azure, for hosting, storage and other critical services required to operate our Software Products & Services and Managed Services and, as such, we are vulnerable to service interruptions, delays and outages experienced or caused by these third parties. Because we also incorporate diverse software and hosted services from many third-party vendors, we may encounter difficulties and delays in integrating and synthesizing these applications and programs, which may cause downtimes or other performance problems. It may become increasingly difficult to maintain and improve the performance of our platform, especially during peak usage times and as our platform becomes more complex and usage increases. Certain of our customer contracts include service level obligations, including system uptime commitments and/or required response times in the case of technical issues. If our Software Products & Services and Managed Services are unavailable or if our users are unable to access them within a reasonable amount of time or at all, we may be in breach of our contractual obligations, we may be required to issue credits or refunds to customers, and/or our customers may be entitled to terminate their contracts with us. AWS and Azure provide us with hosting, computing and storage services pursuant to agreements that may be cancelled under certain circumstances. If any of our agreements with AWS or Azure is terminated, we could experience interruptions on our platform and in our ability to make our platform available to customers, as well as delays and additional expenses in arranging alternative cloud infrastructure services. Any of the above circumstances or events may harm our reputation, cause customers to stop using our platform, impair our ability to increase revenue from existing customers, impair our ability to grow our customer base, subject us to financial penalties and liabilities under our service level agreements and otherwise harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. The security of our platform, networks or computer systems may be breached, and any unauthorized access to our customer data will have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. The use of our aiWARE platform involves the storage, transmission and processing of our customers private data, and this private media may contain confidential and proprietary information, including personal information, of our customers, their employees or third parties. The data processed and stored in our platform by customers in the government market may contain highly sensitive data that is subject to protection under government regulations, and we are obligated to comply with stringent requirements related to the security of such data, such as FedRAMP and Criminal Justice Information Services (CJIS) security requirements. Individuals or entities may attempt to penetrate our network or platform security, or that of our third-party hosting and storage providers, and could gain access to our customers data. In addition, our platform may be subject to computer malware, viruses and computer hacking, fraudulent use attempts and phishing attacks, all of which have become more prevalent in our industry. These malicious activities could result in the destruction, disclosure or misappropriation of proprietary or confidential information of our customers, their employees or third parties, and/or damage to our platform. If any of our customers data is accessed, disclosed, modified or destroyed without authorization, it could harm our reputation, those customers or other customers could terminate their agreements with us, or we could be exposed to civil and criminal liability, penalties and fines. While we have implemented procedures and safeguards that are designed to prevent security breaches and cyber-attacks, they may not be able to protect against all attempts to breach our systems, and we may not become aware in a timely manner of any such security breach. Unauthorized access to or security breaches of our platform, network or computer systems, or those of our technology service providers or third party vendors, could result in the loss of business, reputational damage, regulatory investigations and orders, litigation, indemnity obligations, damages for contract breach, civil and criminal penalties for violation of applicable laws, regulations or contractual obligations, and significant costs, fees and other monetary payments for remediation. If we fail to maintain reliability, security and availability of our platform, or if customers believe that our platform does not provide adequate security for the storage of sensitive information or its transmission over the Internet, we may lose existing customers and we may not be able to attract new customers. If we experience security breaches or cyber-attacks or fail to comply with security requirements related to our secure government cloud environment, we may lose our ability to obtain or maintain a FedRAMP certification, which could result in the loss of business from customers in the government market. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. 18 Risks Related to Target Markets, Competition and Customers The success of our business depends on our ability to expand into new vertical markets and attract new customers in a cost-effective manner. In order to grow our business, we plan to drive greater awareness and adoption of our aiWARE platform, applications and services from enterprises across new vertical markets, including the energy, government, and legal and compliance markets. We intend to continue to invest in sales and marketing, as well as in technological development, to meet evolving customer needs in these and other markets. We may not be successful in gaining new customers in any or all of these markets. Some markets may present unique and unexpected challenges and difficulties. For example, in order for us to offer our Software Products & Services to certain government customers, we are required to operate our aiWARE platform in a secure government cloud environment, and in some cases, in a private cloud environment or an on-premises environment, in order to meet these customers requirements and to enable them to maintain compliance with applicable regulations that govern the use, storage and transfer of certain government data. However, due to the secure nature of these environments, at this time, not all of the functionalities, features and cognitive processing capabilities of our aiWARE platform are available in these environments, which may limit or reduce the performance and quality of our services. Furthermore, we may incur additional costs to modify our current platform to conform to customers or cloud providers requirements, and we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to offset these costs. We are also required to comply with certain regulations required by government customers, such as FedRAMP and CJIS, which require us to incur significant costs, devote management time and modify our current platform and operations. If we are unable to comply with those regulations effectively and in a cost-effective manner, our financial results could be adversely affected. As part of our strategy to penetrate new vertical markets, we will incur marketing expenses before we are able to recognize any revenue in such markets, and these expenses may not result in increased revenue or brand awareness. We have made in the past, and may make in the future, significant expenditures and investments in new marketing campaigns, and these investments may not lead to the cost-effective acquisition of additional customers. If we are unable to maintain effective marketing programs, then our ability to attract new customers or enter new vertical markets could be adversely affected. Recent and proposed laws regarding the use of facial recognition technology could have a material adverse effect on demand for certain of our products. Certain of our Software Products & Services, particularly our IDentify face matching application for law enforcement agencies, utilize facial recognition technology. Facial recognition technology has recently been the subject of increasing concern and criticism regarding the potential for the technology to misidentify individuals as criminal suspects, and to be used in ways that infringe on individual rights. In June 2020, legislation was introduced in the U.S. Senate that would ban the use of facial recognition technology by Federal agencies and make federal funding for state and local law enforcement contingent on their enactment of similar bans. In addition, legislation has been introduced in over 15 state legislatures that would ban or restrict the use of the technology by governmental agencies in those jurisdictions, and several U.S. cities, including San Francisco, California, Oakland, California and Somerville, Massachusetts, have already enacted such bans. If such bans are enacted, potential government customers for our IDentify solution in that jurisdiction would be prohibited from using the technology unless and until the ban is lifted. If such bans are enacted in a significant number of jurisdictions, it would have a material adverse effect on the market for software solutions that utilize facial recognition technology, including our IDentify solution. Similarly, data privacy laws have been enacted in a number of jurisdictions and have been introduced in several additional states, which regulate the collection of certain personal information regarding individuals, including their facial images, and the use of such data, including in facial recognition systems. Such laws may have the effect of limiting the potential demand for our aiWARE platform for non-governmental use cases that utilize facial recognition technology, which could adversely impact our ability to grow our business in those areas. If we are not able to compete effectively, our business and operating results will be harmed. While the market for AI-based systems for search and analysis of audio, video and other unstructured data is still in the early stages of development, we face competition from various sources, including large, well-capitalized technology companies such as Google, Microsoft, Amazon and IBM. In the case of PandoLogic, the market for talent acquisition software and services is highly competitive, rapidly evolving and fragmented, and we face competition from programmatic job advertising software companies, traditional human capital management (HCM) companies, companies primarily focused on offering applicant tracking systems, and providers of point solutions for specific use cases such as for recruitment marketing, and these companies include, without limitation, Oracle and SAP. 19 Our large competitors may have better brand name recognition, greater financial and engineering resources and larger sales and marketing teams than we have. As a result, these competitors may be able to develop and introduce, or acquire companies that may be able to develop and introduce, competing solutions and technologies that may have greater capabilities than ours or that are able to achieve greater customer acceptance, and they may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or customer requirements. Some customers may also be hesitant to use a new platform and prefer to upgrade products offered by their incumbent platforms for reasons including price, quality, sophistication, familiarity and global presence. In addition, we may compete with smaller competitors, including developers of AI models, who may develop their own solutions that perform similar services as our platform for specific use cases, as well as with systems integrators that aggregate and integrate cognitive solutions from multiple providers for their clients. The competitive factors in our market include, but are not limited to, product features, reliability, performance and effectiveness; integration with a wide variety of third-party applications and systems; modern and intuitive technology and user experience; ability to innovate and rapidly respond to customer needs; breadth and depth of application functionality; adherence to industry standards and certifications; strength of sales and marketing efforts; quality of customer support; brand awareness and reputation; size and composition of customer base and level of user adoption; and price and cost of ownership. We expect that competition will increase and intensify as we continue to expand our serviceable markets and the capabilities of our aiWARE platform. Increased competition may result in pricing pressures and require us to incur additional sales and marketing expenses, which could negatively impact our sales, profitability and market share. PandoLogic generates substantial revenue from a single customer and the loss of such customer may harm our business, results of operations and financial results. PandoLogic generates substantial revenue from a single customer for which there is no long-term contract with us. In the event this customer decides to terminate its contract with us, suffers downturns in its business leading to a reduction in its budget for our talent acquisition software and services, or decides to develop a competing solution or otherwise take its recruitment and hiring needs in-house, and we are unable to obtain additional customers or increase our revenue from existing customers to offset the reduction of these revenues, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and reported revenue and results of operation. Technological advances may significantly disrupt the labor market and weaken demand for human capital at a rapid rate. The success of our PandoLogic talent acquisition software and services business is dependent on our employer customers demands for talent. As technology continues to evolve, more tasks currently performed by people may be replaced by automation, robotics, machine learning, artificial intelligence and other technological advances outside of our control. This trend poses a risk to the talent acquisition industry as a whole, particularly in lower-skill job categories that may be more susceptible to such replacement. Significant segments of the market for talent acquisition software and services may have hiring needs and service preferences that are subject to greater volatility than the overall economy. The target customer segment for our PandoLogic talent acquisition software and services business spans a wide range of company characteristics, including company size, geography, and industry, among other factors. Hiring activity may vary significantly among businesses with different characteristics and accordingly, any concentration we may have among businesses with certain characteristics may subject us to high volatility in our financial results. Smaller businesses, for example, typically have less persistent hiring needs and may experience greater volatility in their need for talent acquisition software and services and preferences among providers of such services. Along with a relatively short sales cycle, smaller businesses may be more likely to change platforms based on short-term differences in perceived price, value, service level, or other factors. Difficulty in acquiring and/or retaining these businesses as customers may adversely affect our operating results. We currently generate significant revenue from a limited number of key customers and the loss of any of our key customers may harm our business, results of operations and financial results. Our ten largest customers by revenue accounted for approximately 57%, 34% and 24% of our net revenues in fiscal years 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. One customer accounted for approximately 30% of net revenues in fiscal year 2021 after not generating significant revenues in fiscal years 2020 and 2019. Ten customers accounted for approximately 81% of our total Software Products & Services revenues in 2021, with one customer accounting for approximately 57% of our total Software Products & Services revenues. Ten customers accounted for approximately 43% of our total Managed Services revenues in 2021, with one customer accounting for approximately 11% of our total Managed Services revenues. 20 If any of our key customers, particularly our key advertising customers which have the ability to terminate our agreements on short notice, decides to terminate or not to renew its contract with us, renews on less favorable terms, or suffers downturns in its business leading to a reduction in its marketing spending, and we are not able to gain additional customers or increase our revenue from other customers to offset the reduction of revenues, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. Our sales efforts related to our Software Products & Services involve considerable time and expense and our sales cycle is often long and unpredictable. Our results of operations may fluctuate, in part, because of the length and unpredictability of our sales cycle, particularly in our Government & Regulated Industries markets. As part of our sales efforts, we invest considerable time and expense evaluating the specific organizational needs of our potential customers and educating these potential customers about the technical capabilities and value of our Software Products & Services. Potential customers often require evaluation licenses at no charge or for nominal fees in order to evaluate our solutions before making a purchase decision. Sales to government customers are also subject to lengthy and complex procurement processes, including technology and security assessments, budget approvals and competitive bidding requirements. Due to these factors, our sales cycle often lasts several months or more for some customers. Our sales efforts typically require a significant investment of human resources expense and time, including efforts by sales engineers, solution architects, product development and senior management, and we may not be successful in making a sale to a potential customer. If our sales efforts to a potential customer do not result in sufficient revenue to justify our investments, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Advertising customers periodically review and change their advertising requirements and relationships. If we are unable to remain competitive or retain key customers, our business, results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected. The media placement industry is highly competitive, and certain advertising customers periodically put their advertising and marketing business up for competitive review. Customers also review the cost and benefit of servicing all or a portion of their advertising and marketing needs in-house. We have won and lost accounts in the past as a result of these reviews. Because our advertising contracts generally can be cancelled by our customers upon 30 to 90 days prior written notice, clients can easily change media providers on short notice without any penalty. In addition, from time to time, customers cancel media campaigns for their internal business reasons. For example, we received total net revenues from one advertising customer of $1.2 million in 2018 compared with only $0.9 million in 2019, $0.1 million in 2020, and no revenues from this customer in 2021, due to a significant reduction in the customers overall advertising spend. If we are not able to retain key customers, or if any of our key customers significantly reduce their advertising spend, our revenue may be adversely affected, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. Acquiring and retaining advertising customers depends on our ability to avoid and manage conflicts of interest arising from other customer relationships and attracting and retaining key personnel. Our ability to acquire new advertising customers and to retain existing customers may, in some cases, be limited by customers perceptions of, or policies concerning, conflicts of interest arising from other customer relationships. If we are unable to manage these customer relationships and avoid potential conflicts of interest, our business, results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected. Our ability to acquire new advertising customers and to retain existing customers is dependent in large part upon our ability to attract and retain our key personnel in that business, who are an important aspect of our competitiveness. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our ability to provide our services in the manner customers have come to expect may be adversely affected, which could harm our reputation and result in a loss of customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. Risks Related to Intellectual Property We face risks arising from our digital content licensing services, including potential liability resulting from claims by third parties for infringement or violation of copyrights, publicity or other rights, as well as indemnification claims by rights holders and customers. We manage and license digital content on behalf of leading rights holders in the film, television, sports and advertising industries. We enter into agreements with rights holders under which they grant us the right to distribute and license their content to third parties, subject to certain restrictions and requirements, such as limitations on the type and/or duration of use 21 and requirements to obtain clearances and consents from third parties related to the content. Under these agreements, the rights holders generally represent and warrant that they have the right to license the content to us and that the authorized use of the content will not infringe any third party copyrights and agree to indemnify us for claims arising from breach of such representations and warranties. However, we, and/or our customers to which we sublicense the content, are generally responsible for obtaining all required clearances, permissions and consents with respect to any specific person, place, property or subject matter depicted in the content, each of which may be subject to trademarks, rights of publicity, property rights or other rights belonging to third parties, and we generally agree to indemnify the right holders with respect to claims arising from any failure to do so. In many cases, our agreements with rights holders also require that we include specific terms, conditions, covenants and obligations in our agreements with our customers. In our license agreements with customers, we represent and warrant that we have the right to sublicense the content to them and that their authorized use of the content will not infringe any third party copyrights, and we agree to indemnify our customers for claims arising from breach of such representations and warranties. However, our customers are generally responsible for obtaining all necessary clearances, permissions and consents from third parties, unless we have expressly agreed to provide clearance services with respect to the content, and our customers generally agree to indemnify us for claims arising from their failure to do so. If we or our customers fail to obtain all clearances, permissions and consents from third parties required for the customers use of licensed content, or if our customers otherwise use content in a manner not authorized by the terms of our agreements with the rights holders, then third parties may bring claims against us and the rights holders, and the rights holders may seek indemnification from us related to such claims. In some cases, we may not be entitled to a supporting indemnification by our customers, or we may not be successful in enforcing our rights to indemnification by our customers. In addition, third parties may bring claims against us and our customers for copyright infringement, and we may be required to indemnify our customers for such claims. Similarly, we may not be entitled to indemnification by the rights holders, or we may not be able to enforce our rights to indemnification by the rights holders. While we use commercially reasonable efforts to ensure that we comply with all terms and conditions pertaining to the licensing and sublicensing of digital content, and to provide for appropriate protections related to third party claims in our agreements with right holders and customers, we may incur significant liabilities and costs in the event of claims for infringement or violation of copyrights, publicity or other rights, and/or indemnification claims by rights holders and customers. Regardless of their merit and outcome, intellectual property and indemnification claims are time consuming, expensive to litigate or settle and cause significant diversion of management attention and could severely harm our financial condition and reputation, and adversely affect our business. We maintain insurance policies to cover potential intellectual property disputes. However, if an intellectual property claim or related indemnification claim, or a series of claims, is brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage or for uninsured liabilities, our business could suffer. In addition, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts or scope to protect us against all losses. We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. There has been considerable patent and other intellectual property development activity in the AI industry, which has resulted in litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Our future success depends, in part, on not infringing the intellectual property rights of others. In the future, we may receive claims from third parties, including our competitors, alleging that our platform and underlying technology infringe or violate such third partys intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing upon such rights. We may be unaware of the intellectual property rights of others that may cover some or all of our technology. In addition, in operating our platform, we rely significantly on software provided by third parties, including AI models and applications, and we may become subject to similar infringement claims related to such third party software. We may not have adequate indemnities from, or we may not be successful in enforcing our rights to indemnification by, such third party software providers. Any such claims or litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, could require that we pay substantial damages or ongoing royalty payments, prevent us from offering some portion of our platform, or require that we comply with other unfavorable terms. We may also be obligated to indemnify our customers or business partners in connection with any such litigation and to obtain licenses or modify our platform, which could further exhaust our resources. Patent infringement, trademark infringement, trade secret misappropriation and other intellectual property claims and proceedings brought against us, whether successful or not, could harm our brand, business, results of operations and financial condition. Litigation is inherently uncertain, and any judgment or injunctive relief entered against us or any adverse settlement could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, litigation can involve significant management time and attention and be expensive, regardless of the outcome. During the course of litigation, there may be announcements of the results of hearings and motions and other interim developments related to the litigation. If securities analysts or investors regard these announcements as negative, the trading price of our common stock may decline. 22 We could incur substantial costs in protecting or defending our intellectual property rights, and any failure to protect our intellectual property could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our brand and the proprietary methods and technologies that we develop under patent and other intellectual property laws of the United States and foreign jurisdictions so that we can prevent others from using our inventions and proprietary information. As of March 9, 2022, in the United States, we had 32 issued patents, which expire between 2027 and 2040, and had 10 patent applications pending for examination. As of such date, we also had 12 issued patents and 29 patent applications pending for examination in foreign jurisdictions (including international PCT applications), all of which are based on counterpart U.S. patent applications pursued by us. We may not be issued any additional patents and any patents that have been issued or that may be issued in the future may not provide significant protection for our intellectual property. In addition, we have registered, or have applied for registration of, numerous trademarks, including Veritone and aiWARE, in the United States and in several foreign jurisdictions. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors might gain access to our technology and our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. The particular forms of intellectual property protection that we seek, or our business decisions about when to file patent applications and trademark applications, may not be adequate to protect our business. We could be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights or those of others, or defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Such litigation could be costly, time-consuming and distracting to management, result in a diversion of significant resources, lead to the narrowing or invalidation of portions of our intellectual property and have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights or alleging that we infringe the counterclaimants own intellectual property. Any of our patents, copyrights, trademarks or other intellectual property rights could be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. We also rely, in part, on confidentiality agreements with our business partners, employees, consultants, advisors, customers and others in our efforts to protect our proprietary technology, processes and methods. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of our confidential information, and it may be possible for unauthorized parties to copy our software or other proprietary technology or information, or to develop similar software independently without our having an adequate remedy for unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information, and in these cases, we would not be able to assert any trade secret rights against those parties. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and the failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. In addition, the laws of some countries do not protect intellectual property and other proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. To the extent we expand our international activities, our exposure to unauthorized copying, transfer and use of our proprietary technology or information may increase. Our means of protecting our intellectual property and proprietary rights may not be adequate or our competitors could independently develop similar technology. If we fail to meaningfully protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our use of open source software could negatively affect our ability to sell our products and subject us to possible litigation. Our aiWARE platform incorporates select open source software, and we expect to continue to incorporate open source software in our aiWARE platform in the future. Few of the licenses applicable to open source software have been interpreted by courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products and platform. Moreover, although we have implemented policies to regulate the use and incorporation of open source software into our aiWARE platform, we cannot be certain that we have not incorporated open source software in our aiWARE platform in a manner that is inconsistent with such policies. If we fail to comply with open source licenses, we may be subject to certain requirements, including requirements that we offer our products that incorporate the open source software for no cost, that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon, incorporating or using the open source software and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of applicable open source licenses. If an author or other third party that distributes such open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of these licenses, we could be required to incur significant legal expenses defending against such allegations and could be subject to significant damages, enjoined from generating revenue from customers using products that contained the open source 23 software and required to comply with onerous conditions or restrictions on these products. In any of these events, we and our customers could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our Software Products & Services and to re-engineer or discontinue offering our products to customers in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis. Any of the foregoing could require us to devote additional research and development resources to re-engineer our products , could result in customer dissatisfaction and may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Human Capital Management We depend on our executive officers and other key employees, and the loss of one or more of these employees or an inability to attract and retain highly skilled employees could adversely affect our business. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our Chief Executive Officer, Chad Steelberg, our President, Ryan Steelberg, and our other executive officers and senior management. We rely on our leadership team in the areas of strategy and implementation, research and development, operations, security, marketing, sales, support and general and administrative functions. We do not currently have any employment agreements with our executive officers or senior management team that require them to continue to work for us for any specified period, and, therefore, they could terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of Chad Steelberg or Ryan Steelberg, or one or more of the members of our management team, could adversely impact our business and operations and disrupt our relationships with our key customers. If we are unable to hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, our business will suffer. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. We believe that there is, and will continue to be, intense competition for highly skilled management, engineering, data science, sales, marketing and other personnel with experience in the businesses in which we operate. We must provide competitive compensation packages and a high-quality work environment to hire, retain and motivate employees. If we are unable to retain and motivate our existing employees and attract qualified personnel to fill key positions, we may be unable to manage our business effectively, including the development, marketing, sale and delivery of our products and services, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. To the extent we hire personnel from competitors, we also may be subject to allegations that they have been improperly solicited or that they have divulged proprietary or other confidential information. Volatility in, or lack of performance of, our stock price may also affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Many of our key personnel are, or will be, vested in a substantial number of shares of common stock or stock options. Employees may be more likely to terminate their employment with us if the shares they own or the shares underlying their vested options have significantly appreciated in value relative to the original purchase prices of the shares or the exercise prices of the options, or, conversely, if the exercise prices of the options that they hold are significantly above the trading price of our common stock. If we are unable to retain our employees, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Regulatory Compliance Data protection and privacy laws and regulations could require us to make changes to our business, impose additional costs on us and reduce the demand for our software solutions. Our customers utilize our Software Products & Services and Managed Services to process, analyze and store data, which may contain personal information that is subject to data protection and privacy laws in various jurisdictions. Federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies have adopted, or may in the future adopt, laws and regulations regarding the collection, use, processing, storage and disclosure of personal information, such as the GDPR, the CCPA and similar regulations adopted in other jurisdictions, including other states within the United States. In addition to government regulation, privacy advocates and industry groups may propose various self-regulatory standards that may legally or contractually apply to our business. The regulatory framework relating to privacy and data protection issues worldwide is evolving rapidly and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. Because the interpretation and application of many privacy and data protection laws, regulations and applicable industry standards are uncertain, it is possible that these laws, regulations and standards may be interpreted and applied in a manner inconsistent with our existing privacy and data management practices. As we expand into new jurisdictions or markets, we will be required to understand and comply with various new requirements applicable in those jurisdictions or markets. For example, we have entered into agreements and are actively pursuing opportunities to provide our Software Products & Services and Managed Services to customers in Europe, which involve processing of personal data. In providing our Software Products & Services and Managed Services, we are deemed to be a data processor and are required to comply with the GDPR, which applies to all companies processing personal data of EU residents regardless of the companys location, as well as with additional obligations to our customers to support their compliance with 24 the GDPR. We are also obligated to comply with the GDPR (and similar regulations in other jurisdictions including the United Kingdom) as a data controller with respect to personal data of certain employees and individuals employed or engaged by our current or prospective customers, vendors and service providers, which we receive and process in the course of our business. The GDPR imposes financial penalties for non-compliance, which can be up to four percent of global revenue or 20 million Euros, whichever is greater. We are also required to comply with the CCPA and the regulations implemented thereunder, with respect to personal information of California consumers that we collect and process, both directly and indirectly as a service provider to our customers. Under the GDPR and/or the CCPA, as well as similar data protection regulations implemented in other jurisdictions, we are required to maintain appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure the security and protection of personal data and information, and we must comply (either directly or indirectly in support of our customers compliance efforts, as provided for in our contracts with customers) with a number of requirements with respect to individuals whose personal data or information we collect and process, including, among others, notification requirements and requirements to comply with requests from individuals to (i) opt out of collection, processing and/or sale of their data or information, (ii) delete their data or information, and (iii) receive copies of and other information regarding our collection and processing of their data or information. To the extent applicable to our business or the businesses of our customers, these laws, regulations and industry standards could have negative effects on our business, including by increasing our costs and operating expenses, and delaying or impeding our deployment of new core functionality and products. Compliance with these laws, regulations and industry standards requires significant management time and attention, and failure to comply could result in negative publicity, subject us to contractual liability, fines or penalties or result in demands that we modify or cease existing business practices. In addition, the costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, such laws, regulations and industry standards may adversely affect our customers ability or desire to collect, use, process and store personal information using our software solutions, which could reduce overall demand for them. Even the perception of privacy and data security concerns, whether or not valid, may inhibit market acceptance of our software solutions in certain markets. Furthermore, privacy and data security concerns may cause our customers customers, vendors, employees and other industry participants to resist providing the personal information necessary to allow our customers to use our products and services effectively. Any of these outcomes could adversely affect our business and operating results. We could be subject to liability for historical and future sales, use and similar taxes, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We conduct operations in multiple tax jurisdictions throughout the United States. In many of these jurisdictions, non-income-based taxes, such as sales and use taxes, are assessed on our operations. Our customers agree to pay the use taxes in the states and other jurisdictions where our services are subject to sales or use tax. As a result, we have not billed or collected these taxes and, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, we have not recorded a provision for our tax exposure in these jurisdictions. In the event these jurisdictions challenge our approach or our customers do not satisfy the sales or use tax obligation, such jurisdictions may assert tax assessments, penalties and/or interest, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Securities and Our Public Company Operations Our common stock price has been extremely volatile and could continue to fluctuate widely in price, which could result in substantial losses for investors. The market price of our common stock has been, and we expect will continue to be, subject to extreme fluctuations over short periods of time. For example, the closing price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $13.22 to a high of $38.53 during the 12-month period ended February 28, 2022. Prior to that, from the completion of our initial public offering (IPO) on May 12, 2017 through February 28, 2021, the closing price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $1.52 to a high of $65.91. These fluctuations may be due to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: the volume and timing of our revenues and quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of others in our industry; announcement of new contracts with customers or termination of contracts with customers; announcement of acquisitions of other companies or businesses, or other significant strategic transactions; the introduction of new services, content or features by us or others in our industry; disputes or other developments with respect to our or others intellectual property rights; media exposure of our products or of those of others in our industry; changes in governmental regulations; 25 additions or departures of key personnel; sales of our common stock; speculative trading practices of certain market participants; actual or purported short squeeze trading activity; changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; and general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. In recent years, the stock markets generally have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the listed companies. Broad market and industry factors may significantly affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. These fluctuations have been, and may continue to be, even more pronounced in the trading market for our common stock. Further, on some occasions, our stock price may be, or may be purported to be, subject to short squeeze activity. A short squeeze is a technical market condition that occurs when the price of a stock increases substantially, forcing market participants who had taken a position that its price would fall (i.e., who had sold the stock short), to buy it, which in turn may create significant, short-term demand for the stock not for fundamental reasons, but rather due to the need for such market participants to acquire the stock in order to forestall the risk of even greater losses. A short squeeze condition in the market for a stock can lead to short-term conditions involving very high volatility and trading that may or may not track fundamental valuation models. In addition, in the past, class action litigation has often been instituted against companies whose securities have experienced periods of volatility in market price. Securities litigation brought against us following volatility in our stock price, regardless of the merit or ultimate results of such litigation, could result in substantial costs, which would hurt our financial condition and operating results and divert managements attention and resources from our business. If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired. As a public company, we are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules implemented by the SEC. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure