MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (unaudited; tabular dollars in thousands, except for percentages and per share data) Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of Viant Technology Inc. and its subsidiaries (Viant, we, us, our or the Company) should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto and other financial information appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q ("Quarterly Report") and our audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and the related Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on March 2, 2023. In addition to historical financial information, the following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties which could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, risks and uncertainties discussed under the heading Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors and discussed elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Additionally, our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future. Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), which statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements generally relate to future events or our future financial or operating performance and may include statements concerning, among other things, our business strategy (including anticipated trends and developments in, and management plans for, our business and the markets in which we operate), financial results, the sufficiency of our cash and cash equivalents and cash provided by sales of our products and services to meet our liquidity needs, the impact of macroeconomic and geopolitical events, including the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, bank failures, labor shortages, inflation and monetary supply shifts, rising interest rates, tightening of credit markets, recession risks, and potential disruptions from the Russia-Ukraine conflict, on our business, operations, and the markets and communities in which we, our clients, and partners operate, results of operations, revenues, operating expenses, capital expenditures, sales and marketing initiatives and competition. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by words such as may, will, should, could, intend, consider, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict or continue or the negative or plural of these words or other similar terms or expressions. All statements other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made, and are not guarantees of future performance. Forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report include, but are not limited to, statements about: our future financial performance, including our revenue, cost of revenue, gross profit, contribution excluding traffic acquisition costs (contribution ex-TAC), adjusted EBITDA, and operating expenses; trends in our key business measures; the sufficiency of our cash and cash equivalents and cash provided by sales of our products and services to meet our liquidity needs; market trends; our market position and opportunity; our growth strategy and business aspirations for our demand side platform in enabling the programmatic purchase of advertising in the digital advertising industry; our product strategy; our efforts to enhance the security and privacy of our platform; the potential impacts of macroeconomic and geopolitical events, the business of our customers, suppliers and channel partners, and the economy; our ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers; our ability to successfully expand into our existing markets and into new markets; our ability to effectively manage our growth and future expenses; and the impact of recent accounting pronouncements on our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Such statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected results. As a result, you should not put undue reliance on any forward-looking statement. These forward-looking statements are included throughout this Quarterly Report. Factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the risk factors discussed in the Risk Factors section of this Quarterly Report. The forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report are based on historical performance and managements current plans, estimates and expectations in light of information currently available to us and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. There can be no assurance that future developments affecting us will be those that we have anticipated. Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to changes in global, regional or local political, economic, business, competitive, market, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, as well as the other factors described in the section entitled Risk Factors. Additional factors or events that could cause our actual results to differ may also emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all of them. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should any of our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our actual results may vary in material respects from what we may have expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. We may not actually achieve the plans, intentions, or expectations disclosed in our forward-looking statements, and we caution that you should not place undue reliance on any of our forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statement made by us in this Quarterly Report speaks only as of the date on which we make it. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, except as 18 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (unaudited; tabular dollars in thousands, except for percentages and per share data) may be required by applicable securities laws. You should read this Quarterly Report, and the documents that we reference in this Quarterly Report and have filed with the SEC, with the understanding that our actual future results, performance, and events and circumstances may be materially different from what we expect. Overview We are an advertising technology company. Our cloud-based demand side platform ("DSP"), Adelphic, enables the programmatic purchase of advertising, which is the electronification of the digital advertising buying process. Programmatic advertising is rapidly taking market share from traditional ad sales channels, which require more staffing, offer less transparency and involve higher costs to buyers. Adelphic is used by marketers and their advertising agencies to centralize the planning, buying and measurement of their digital advertising across most channels. Through our omni-channel platform, a marketer can easily buy ads on desktop, mobile, connected TV, linear TV, in-game, streaming audio and digital billboards. Adelphic is an easy-to-use self-service platform that provides our customers with transparency and control over their advertising campaigns. Our platform offers customers unique visibility across a variety of inventory, allowing them to create customized audience segments and leverage our people-based and strategic partner data to reach target audiences at scale. Our platform delivers a full suite of forecasting, reporting and built-in automation that provides our customers with insights into available inventory based on the desired target audience. We offer advanced forecasting and reporting that empowers our customers with functionality designed to ensure they can accurately measure and improve their return on advertising spend ("ROAS") across channels and we believe this can be a feature that helps us grow our customer base as more customers recognize its benefits. We generate revenue by charging platform fees and service fees pursuant to agreements that enable a wide variety of marketers and their agencies to select the mix of pricing and service options that suits their unique business and advertising budget. These options consist of a percentage of spend pricing option and a fixed cost per mille (CPM) pricing option. Customers who prefer to use our platform on a self-service basis to execute their advertising campaigns enter into master service agreements (MSAs) with us, and we generate revenue under these arrangements by charging a platform fee that is primarily a percentage of spend. Customers who prefer to use our fixed CPM pricing option enter into insertion order (IO) arrangements with us, and we generate revenue by charging these customers a platform fee at a price for every 1,000 impressions an ad receives. We also offer different service options to our customers accessing our platform under an MSA or an IO to enable them to use our services to aid them in data management, media execution and advanced reporting. When customers utilize our services, we generate revenue by charging a service fee separate from the platform fee consisting of (1) a fee that represents a percentage of spend; (2) a flat monthly fee covering services in connection with data management and advanced reporting; or (3) a fixed CPM that is inclusive of media, other direct costs and services. We believe that offering a mix of pricing and service options provides greater flexibility and access to our platform for marketers and their advertising agencies seeking to plan, buy, and measure programmatic campaigns. As our customer base has grown, the number of percentage of spend customers has continued to increase relative to our fixed price customers, which tend to be less resilient during challenging macroeconomic periods. Our financial results for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, include: Revenue of $41.7 million and $42.6 million, representing a decrease of 2.1%; Gross profit of $18.4 million and $16.4 million, representing an increase of 11.9%; Contribution ex-TAC1 of $28.0 million and $27.5 million, representing an increase of 1.6%; Net loss of $9.4 million and $13.6 million, representing an improvement of 30.9%; Non-GAAP net loss1 of $1.8 million and $6.8 million, representing an improvement of 73.2%; and Adjusted EBITDA1 of $(0.4) million and $(3.9) million, representing an increase of 90.0%. (1)Contribution ex-TAC, non-GAAP net loss and adjusted EBITDA are non-GAAP financial measures. For a detailed discussion of our key operating and financial performance measures and a reconciliation of contribution ex-TAC, non-GAAP net loss and adjusted EBITDA to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP), see Key Operating and Financial Performance MeasuresUse of Non-GAAP Financial Measures. 19 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (unaudited; tabular dollars in thousands, except for percentages and per share data) Factors Affecting Our Performance Attract, Retain and Grow our Customer Base Our future growth depends upon our ability to retain our existing customers and increase their usage of our platform as well as add new customers. We believe many advertisers are in the early stages of moving a greater percentage of their advertising budgets to programmatic channels. By providing solutions for the planning, buying and measuring of their media spend across most channels, we believe we are well positioned to capture more of our customers programmatic budgets. We also continue to add functionality to our platform to encourage our customers to increase their usage. For instance, we continue to leverage artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning in our platform to help our customers improve the efficiency and effectiveness of their advertising campaigns. Further, we intend to continue to grow our sales and marketing efforts to increase awareness of our DSP, Adelphic, and highlight the advantages of our people-based framework as cookie-based options become increasingly limited. Despite a number of significant macroeconomic headwinds and challenges, our active customers for the twelve months ended March 31, 2023 remained steady at 327, compared to the twelve months ended March 31, 2022. We evaluate our customers' usage of our platform and assess our market penetration and scale based on changes in revenue, contribution ex-TAC and advertiser spend. We define advertiser spend as the total amount billed to our customers for activity on our platform inclusive of the costs of advertising media, third-party data, other add-on features and our platform fee we charge customers. While we experienced customers reducing advertising budgets during the second half of 2022 due to macroeconomic conditions, we saw stabilizing trends during the first quarter of 2023, although our year-over-year comparisons were challenging due to the significant growth in the first quarter of 2022.Despite a modest decline in revenue for the first quarter of 2023 compared to the first quarter of 2022, contribution ex-TAC grew by 2% compared to the first quarter of 2022 and advertiser spend per active customer grew 6% compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. We believe growing customer adoption of our newer products drove incremental revenue and contribution ex-TAC during the first quarter. Also, as our mix shift towards percentage of spend becomes less impactful and as fixed price becomes a smaller percentage of total advertiser spend, we expect contribution ex-TAC to grow faster than revenue.Notwithstanding stabilizing trends in the first quarter of 2023, we expect the deceleration in advertising spend that began in the second half of 2022 will continue into future periods if challenging macroeconomic and geopolitical conditions, as more fully discussed below, continue or worsen. For a detailed discussion of our key operating measures including the definition of active customers, see Key Operating and Financial Performance MeasuresUse of Non-GAAP Financial Measures. Investment in Growth We believe that the advertising market is in the early stages of a shift toward programmatic advertising. We plan to invest for long-term growth. We anticipate that our operating expenses will continue to increase in the foreseeable future as we invest in platform operations, technology and development to enhance our product capabilities including the integration of new advertising channels, and in sales and marketing to acquire new customers and increase our customers usage of our platform. We believe that these investments will contribute to our long-term growth, although they may have a negative impact on our profitability in the near-term. Impact of Macroeconomic and Geopolitical Conditions Macroeconomic conditions and geopolitical events, including the COVID-19 pandemic, bank failures, inflation and monetary supply shifts, rising interest rates, tightening of credit markets, recession risks, labor shortages, shortages of goods and services, supply chain disruptions, and potential disruptions from the Russia-Ukraine conflict, continue to impact our business and the business of our customers, while also disrupting sales channels and advertising and marketing activities. While our number of active customers for the twelve months ended March 31, 2023 remained consistent over the past twelve months, we have observed decreases in revenue that we attribute to marketers in certain industry verticals decreasing or pausing their advertising spend due to the impacts of these macroeconomic conditions. We continue to actively monitor the impact of these macroeconomic factors on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and on our clients, partners, industry and employees, and have slowed the pace of further investments in sales and marketing as a result of these factors. The extent of the impact of these factors on our operational and financial performance, including our ability to execute our business strategies and initiatives in the expected time frame, will depend on future developments, which are uncertain and cannot be predicted. Due to the nature of our business, the effect of these macroeconomic conditions and geopolitical events may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. In the fourth quarter of 2022, we initiated a cost reduction plan aimed at reducing our operating expenses and sharpening our focus on key growth priorities in light of these macroeconomic conditions. This included a reduction of our employee headcount by approximately 13% and total restructuring charges included in our consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2022 of $1.4 million, consisting primarily of cash severance payments, employee benefits, and related costs. See Risk FactorsThe effects of macroeconomic conditions and geopolitical events, such as economic recessions and the COVID-19 pandemic and other adverse market events have had, and could in the future have, an adverse impact on our business, 20 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (unaudited; tabular dollars in thousands, except for percentages and per share data) operating results and financial condition for further discussion of the potential impacts of macroeconomic and geopolitical events on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Growth of the Digital Advertising Market We expect to continue to benefit from overall adoption of programmatic advertising by marketers and their agencies. Any material change in the growth rate of digital advertising or the rate of adoption of programmatic advertising, including expansion of new programmatic channels, could affect our performance. Recent years have shown that advertising spend is closely tied to advertisers financial performance, and a downturn, either generally or in one or more of the industries in which our customers operate, could adversely impact the digital advertising market and our operating results. Seasonality In the advertising industry, companies commonly experience seasonal fluctuations in revenue, as many marketers allocate the largest portion of their budgets to the fourth quarter of the calendar year in order to coincide with increased holiday purchasing. Historically, the fourth quarter has reflected our highest level of advertising activity for the year. We generally expect the subsequent first quarter to reflect lower activity levels, but this trend may be masked due to the continued growth of our business. In addition, historical seasonality may not be predictive of future results given the potential for changes in advertising buying patterns and consumer activity due to the potential impacts of the evolving macroeconomic and geopolitical conditions discussed above. Political advertising could also cause our revenue to increase during election cycles and decrease during other periods, making it difficult to predict our revenue, cash flow, and operating results, all of which could fall below our expectations. We expect our revenue to continue to fluctuate based on seasonal factors that affect the advertising industry as a whole. Results of Operations The following tables present our condensed consolidated statements of operations, our condensed consolidated statements of operations as a percentage of revenue, and the impact of stock-based compensation, depreciation and amortization on each operating expense line item for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Revenue $ 41,720 $ 42,629 Operating expenses(1): Platform operations 23,337 26,194 Sales and marketing 12,169 13,756 Technology and development 5,894 5,003 General and administrative 11,428 11,083 Total operating expenses 52,828 56,036 Loss from operations (11,108) (13,407) Total other expense (income), net (1,732) 156 Net loss (9,376) (13,563) Less: Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests (6,896) (10,371) Net loss attributable to Viant Technology Inc. $ (2,480) $ (3,192) 21 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (unaudited; tabular dollars in thousands, except for percentages and per share data) Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 (% of revenue*) Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Revenue 100 % 100 % Operating expenses(1): Platform operations 56 % 61 % Sales and marketing 29 % 32 % Technology and development 14 % 12 % General and administrative 27 % 26 % Total operating expenses 127 % 131 % Loss from operations (27) % (31) % Total other expense (income), net (4) % % Net loss (22) % (32) % Less: Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests (17) % (24) % Net loss attributable to Viant Technology Inc. (6) % (7) % *Percentages may not sum due to rounding (1)Stock-based compensation, depreciation, and amortization included in operating expenses are as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Stock-based compensation: Platform operations $ 892 $ 1,086 Sales and marketing 2,512 2,179 Technology and development 1,327 1,169 General and administrative 2,741 1,942 Total stock-based compensation $ 7,472 $ 6,376 Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Depreciation: Platform operations $ 2,712 $ 2,136 Sales and marketing Technology and development 393 595 General and administrative 147 136 Total depreciation $ 3,252 $ 2,867 22 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (unaudited; tabular dollars in thousands, except for percentages and per share data) Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Amortization: Platform operations $ 58 $ 175 Sales and marketing Technology and development General and administrative 102 112 Total amortization $ 160 $ 287 Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2023 2022 $ % Revenue $ 41,720 $ 42,629 $ (909) (2) % Revenue decreased by $0.9 million, or 2%, during the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. This decrease in revenue was primarily due to certain marketers in the business and financial services, consumer products, and retail industry verticals being impacted by the ongoing adverse effects of labor shortages, inflation and monetary supply shifts, rising interest rates, the tightening of credit markets, and other adverse macroeconomic and geopolitical developments potentially indicative of an economic slowdown or recession. This resulted in revenue decreasing across these industry verticals by a combined 27% from the prior-year period. This decrease was partially offset by a 22% increase in revenue from the prior-year period from marketers in industry verticals other than business and financial services, consumer products, and retail. Additionally, approximately 93% of our revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2023 came from customers that had been customers in the three months ended March 31, 2022. Operating Expenses Platform Operations Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2023 2022 $ % Traffic acquisition costs $ 13,729 $ 15,085 $ (1,356) (9) % Other platform operations 9,608 11,109 (1,501) (14) % Total platform operations $ 23,337 $ 26,194 $ (2,857) (11) % Percentage of revenue 56 % 61 % Platform operations expense decreased by $2.9 million, or 11%, during the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. This decrease was primarily driven by a $1.4 million decrease in traffic acquisition costs ("TAC"), a variable function of revenue related to our fixed CPM pricing option and certain arrangements related to our percentage of spend pricing option. TAC are amounts incurred and payable to suppliers for the cost of advertising media, third-party data and other add-on features. The decrease in other platform operations expense for the first quarter of 2023 was due to a $0.7 million decrease in cloud costs due to continued efforts to increase cloud infrastructure efficiencies, a $0.6 million decrease in third-party costs in support of our Adelphic platform, a $0.4 million decrease in personnel costs and a $0.2 million decrease in stock-based compensation driven by decreased headcount, partially offset by a $0.6 million increase in depreciation related to our continued investment in developed technology. 23 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (unaudited; tabular dollars in thousands, except for percentages and per share data) Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2023 2022 $ % Sales and marketing $ 12,169 $ 13,756 $ (1,587) (12) % Percentage of revenue 29 % 32 % Sales and marketing expense decreased by $1.6 million, or 12%, during the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. This decrease was primarily due to a $2.0 million decrease in personnel costs due to a decrease in sales and marketing headcount and a $0.6 million decrease in advertising expense, partially offset by a $0.5 million increase in travel and entertainment expenses and a $0.3 million increase in stock-based compensation. Technology and Development Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2023 2022 $ % Technology and development $ 5,894 $ 5,003 $ 891 18 % Percentage of revenue 14 % 12 % Technology and development expense increased by $0.9 million, or 18%, during the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. This increase was primarily attributable to a $0.6 million increase in personnel costs and $0.2 million increase in stock-based compensation driven by increased technology and development headcount and a $0.2 million increase in cloud infrastructure costs, which was partially offset by a $0.2 million decrease in depreciation. General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2023 2022 $ % General and administrative $ 11,428 $ 11,083 $ 345 3 % Percentage of revenue 27 % 26 % General and administrative expense increased by $0.3 million, or 3%, during the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. This increase was primarily attributable toa $0.8 million increase in stock-based compensation, a $0.3 million increase in travel and entertainment expenses, and a $0.1 million increase in software license and subscription costs, partially offset by a $0.4 million decrease in recruiting expenses, a $0.3 million decrease in business insurance and tax, accounting, legal, and consulting expenses associated with general corporate and compliance matters, and a $0.2 million decrease in personnel costs driven by decreased headcount. Total Other Expense (Income), Net Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2023 2022 $ % (NM = Not Meaningful) Total other expense (income), net $ (1,732) $ 156 $ (1,888) NM Percentage of revenue (4) % % Total other income for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $1.7 million compared to total other expense of $0.2 million for the same period in 2022. The change from the prior year was primarily due to higher interest income and a lower interest expense as a result of paying off the full outstanding balance under our revolving credit facility with PNC Bank, National Association (PNC Bank) in May 2022. 24 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (unaudited; tabular dollars in thousands, except for percentages and per share data) Key Operating and Financial Performance Measures Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures We monitor certain non-GAAP financial measures to help us evaluate growth trends, establish budgets, measure the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts and assess our operational efficiencies. We believe these measures enhance an overall understanding of our performance and investors ability to review our business from the same perspective as management and facilitate comparisons of this periods results with prior periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that management does not believe are indicative of our ongoing operating performance. These non-GAAP financial measures include contribution ex-TAC, average contribution ex-TAC per active customer, non-GAAP operating expenses, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of contribution ex-TAC, non-GAAP net income (loss), and non-GAAP earnings (loss) per share of Class A common stockbasic and diluted, each of which are discussed immediately following the table below, along with the operational performance measure of active customers. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are provided in the financial tables presented below. There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures which are not prepared in accordance with GAAP, as they may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies and may exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Change (%) Operating and Financial Performance Measures Gross profit $ 18,383 $ 16,435 12 % Contribution ex-TAC $ 27,991 $ 27,544 2 % Net loss $ (9,376) $ (13,563) 31 % Adjusted EBITDA $ (390) $ (3,881) 90 % Net loss as a percentage of gross profit (51) % (83) % 39 % Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of contribution ex-TAC (1) % (14) % 93 % Non-GAAP net loss $ (1,814) $ (6,771) 73 % Total operating expenses $ 52,828 $ 56,036 (6) % Non-GAAP operating expenses $ 28,381 $ 31,425 (10) % Earnings (loss) per sharebasic $ (0.17) $ (0.23) 26 % Earnings (loss) per sharediluted $ (0.17) $ (0.23) 26 % Non-GAAP earnings (loss) per sharebasic $ (0.03) $ (0.09) 68 % Non-GAAP earnings (loss) per sharediluted $ (0.03) $ (0.09) 68 % Active customers 327 327 % Average gross profit per active customer(1) $ 253 $ 291 (13) % Average contribution ex-TAC per active customer(2) $ 384 $ 435 (12) % (1)We define average gross profit per active customer as gross profit for the trailing 12-month period divided by active customers. (2)We define average contribution ex-TAC per active customer as contribution ex-TAC for the trailing 12-month period divided by active customers. Contribution ex-TAC Contribution ex-TAC is a non-GAAP financial measure. Gross profit is the most comparable GAAP financial measure, which is calculated as revenue less platform operations expense. In calculating contribution ex-TAC, we add back other platform operations expense to gross profit. Contribution ex-TAC is a key profitability measure used by our management and board of directors to understand and evaluate our operating performance and trends, develop short- and long-term operational plans and make strategic decisions regarding the allocation of capital. In particular, we believe that contribution ex-TAC can provide a measure of period-to-period comparisons for all pricing options within our business. Accordingly, we believe that this measure provides information to investors and the market in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and board of directors. 25 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (unaudited; tabular dollars in thousands, except for percentages and per share data) Our use of contribution ex-TAC has limitations as an analytical tool and you should not consider it in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our financial results as reported under GAAP. A potential limitation of this non-GAAP financial measure is that other companies, including companies in our industry that have similar business arrangements, may define contribution ex-TAC differently, which may make comparisons difficult. Because of these and other limitations, you should consider our non-GAAP financial measures only as supplemental to other GAAP-based financial performance measures, including revenue, gross profit, net income (loss) and cash flows. For a reconciliation of contribution ex-TAC to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP, see Average contribution ex-TAC per active customer. Active customers We define an active customer as a customer that had total aggregate contribution ex-TAC of at least $5,000 through our platform during the previous twelve months. For purposes of this definition, a customer that operates under any of our pricing options that equals or exceeds the aforementioned contribution ex-TAC threshold is considered an active customer. Active customers is a key measure used by our management and board of directors to understand and evaluate our operating performance and trends, develop short- and long-term operational plans and make strategic decisions regarding future enhancements to our platform. We believe active customers is a useful metric for investors because it allows investors to evaluate the Companys operational performance in the same manner as our management and board of directors. Active customers is an operational metric calculated using contribution ex-TAC, a non-GAAP financial measure. For a reconciliation of contribution ex-TAC to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP, see Average contribution ex-TAC per active customer. Average contribution ex-TAC per active customer We define average contribution ex-TAC per active customer as contribution ex-TAC for the trailing 12-month period presented divided by active customers. Average gross profit per active customer is the most comparable GAAP measure, which we define as gross profit for the trailing 12-month period presented divided by active customers. We believe that the total number of active customers and average contribution ex-TAC per active customer are measures of our ability to increase revenue and profitability and the effectiveness of our sales force, although we expect these measures to fluctuate based on the seasonality in our business. Customers that generated less than $5,000 in contribution ex-TAC in the trailing 12-month period were not material in the aggregate in any period. The following table presents the calculation of gross profit, the reconciliation of gross profit to contribution ex-TAC, average gross profit per active customer, and average contribution ex-TAC per active customer for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Revenue $ 41,720 $ 42,629 Less: Platform operations (23,337) (26,194) Gross profit 18,383 16,435 Add: Other platform operations 9,608 11,109 Contribution ex-TAC $ 27,991 $ 27,544 Active customers 327 327 Average gross profit per active customer $ 253 $ 291 Average contribution ex-TAC per active customer $ 384 $ 435 Non-GAAP Operating Expenses Non-GAAP operating expenses is a non-GAAP financial measure. Total operating expenses is the most comparable GAAP financial measure. Non-GAAP operating expenses is defined by us as total operating expenses plus other expense (income), net less TAC, stock-based compensation, depreciation, amortization, and certain other items that are not related to our core operations, such as restructuring charges, and transaction expenses. Non-GAAP operating expenses is a key component in calculating adjusted EBITDA, which is one of the measures we use to provide our quarterly and annual business outlook to the investment community. Additionally, non-GAAP operating expenses is used by our management and board of directors to understand and evaluate our operating performance and trends, to prepare and approve our annual budget and to develop short- and long-term operational plans. We believe that the elimination of depreciation, amortization, stock-based compensation, TAC and certain other items not related to our core operations provides another measure for period-to-period comparisons of our business, provides additional insight into our core 26 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (unaudited; tabular dollars in thousands, except for percentages and per share data) controllable costs, and is a useful metric for investors because it allows them to evaluate our operational performance in the same manner as our management and board of directors. Our use of non-GAAP operating expenses has limitations as an analytical tool and you should not consider it in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our financial results as reported under GAAP. A potential limitation of this non-GAAP financial measure is that other companies, including companies in our industry that have similar business arrangements, may define non-GAAP operating expenses differently, which may make comparisons difficult. Because of these and other limitations, you should consider our non-GAAP financial measures only as supplemental to other GAAP-based financial performance measures, including revenue, gross profit, net income (loss) and cash flows. The following table presents a reconciliation of total operating expenses to non-GAAP operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Operating expenses: Platform operations $ 23,337 $ 26,194 Sales and marketing 12,169 13,756 Technology and development 5,894 5,003 General and administrative 11,428 11,083 Total operating expenses 52,828 56,036 Add: Other expense, net 87 4 Less: Traffic acquisition costs (13,729) (15,085) Stock-based compensation (7,472) (6,376) Depreciation and amortization (3,412) (3,154) Restructuring(1) 79 Non-GAAP operating expenses $ 28,381 $ 31,425 (1)Restructuring includes adjustments to severance charges initially recognized during the prior year. Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of contribution ex-TAC Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure defined by us as net income (loss) before interest expense (income), net, income tax benefit (expense), depreciation, amortization, stock-based compensation and certain other items that are not related to our core operations, such as restructuring charges, transaction expenses and the extinguishment of debt. Net income (loss) is the most comparable GAAP financial measure. Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of contribution ex-TAC is a non-GAAP financial measure we calculate by dividing adjusted EBITDA by contribution ex-TAC for the period or periods presented. Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of contribution ex-TAC are used by our management and board of directors to understand and evaluate our core operating performance and trends, to prepare and approve our annual budget and to develop short- and long-term operational plans. In particular, we believe that the exclusion of the amounts eliminated in calculating adjusted EBITDA can provide a measure for period-to-period comparisons of our business. Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of contribution ex-TAC, a non-GAAP financial measure, is used by our management and board of directors to evaluate adjusted EBITDA relative to our profitability after costs that are directly variable to revenues, which comprise TAC. Accordingly, we believe that adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of contribution ex-TAC provide information to investors and the market in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and board of directors. Our use of adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of contribution ex-TAC has limitations as an analytical tool, and you should not consider these measures in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our financial results as reported under GAAP. Some of these potential limitations include: other companies, including companies in our industry that have similar business arrangements, may report adjusted EBITDA or adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of contribution ex-TAC, or similarly titled measures, but calculate them differently, which reduces their usefulness as comparative measures; 27 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (unaudited; tabular dollars in thousands, except for percentages and per share data) although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future, and adjusted EBITDA does not reflect cash capital expenditure requirements for such replacements or for new capital expenditure requirements; and adjusted EBITDA does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs or the potentially dilutive impact of stock-based compensation. Because of these and other limitations, you should consider our non-GAAP financial measures only as supplemental to other GAAP-based financial performance measures, including revenue, net loss and cash flows. The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss to adjusted EBITDA for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Net loss $ (9,376) $ (13,563) Add back: Interest expense (income), net (1,819) 152 Depreciation and amortization 3,412 3,154 Stock-based compensation 7,472 6,376 Restructuring(1) (79) Adjusted EBITDA $ (390) $ (3,881) (1)Restructuring includes adjustments to severance charges initially recognized during the prior year. The following table presents the calculation of net loss as a percentage of gross profit and the calculation of adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of contribution ex-TAC for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Gross profit $ 18,383 $ 16,435 Net loss $ (9,376) $ (13,563) Net loss as a percentage of gross profit (51) % (83) % Contribution ex-TAC(1) $ 27,991 $ 27,544 Adjusted EBITDA $ (390) $ (3,881) Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of contribution ex-TAC (1) % (14) % (1)For a reconciliation of contribution ex-TAC to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP, see Average contribution ex-TAC per active customer. Non-GAAP net income (loss) Non-GAAP net income (loss) is a non-GAAP financial measure defined by us as net loss adjusted to eliminate the impact of stock-based compensation and certain other items that are not related to our core operations, such as restructuring charges, transaction expenses and the extinguishment of debt. Net income (loss) is the most comparable GAAP financial measure. Non-GAAP net income (loss) is a key measure used by our management and board of directors to evaluate operating performance, generate future operating plans and make strategic decisions regarding the allocation of capital. In particular, we believe that the elimination of stock-based compensation and certain other items that are not related to our core operations provides measures for period-to-period comparisons of our business and additional insight into our core controllable costs. Accordingly, we believe that non-GAAP net income (loss) provides information to investors and the market generally in understanding and evaluating our results of operations in the same manner as our management and board of directors. Our use of non-GAAP net income (loss) has limitations as an analytical tool and you should not consider it in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our financial results as reported under GAAP. A potential limitation of this non-GAAP financial measure is that other companies, including companies in our industry that have similar business arrangements, may define non-GAAP net income (loss) differently, which may make comparisons difficult. Because of these and other limitations, you should consider our non-GAAP 28 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (unaudited; tabular dollars in thousands, except for percentages and per share data) financial measures only as supplemental to other GAAP-based financial performance measures, including revenue, gross profit, net loss and cash flows. The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss to non-GAAP net loss for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Net loss $ (9,376) $ (13,563) Add back: Stock-based compensation 7,472 6,376 Add back: Restructuring(1) (79) Less: Income tax effect related to Viant Technology Inc.s share of adjustments(2) 169 416 Non-GAAP net loss $ (1,814) $ (6,771) (1)Restructuring includes adjustments to severance charges initially recognized during the prior year. (2)The estimated income tax effect of our share of non-GAAP reconciling items for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 are calculated using assumed blended tax rates of 28% and 24%, respectively, which represent our expected corporate tax rate, excluding discrete and non-recurring tax items. Non-GAAP earnings (loss) per share of Class A common stockbasic and diluted Non-GAAP earnings (loss) per share of Class A common stockbasic and diluted is a non-GAAP financial measure defined by us as earnings (loss) per share of Class A common stockbasic and diluted, adjusted to eliminate the impact of stock-based compensation and certain other items that are not related to our core operations, such as restructuring charges, transaction expenses and the extinguishment of debt. Earnings (loss) per share of Class A common stockbasic and diluted is the most comparable GAAP financial measure. Non-GAAP earnings (loss) per share of Class A common stockbasic and diluted is used by our management and board of directors to evaluate operating performance, generate future operating plans and make strategic decisions regarding the allocation of capital. In particular, we believe that the elimination of stock-based compensation, gain on extinguishment of debt and certain other items that are not related to our core operations provides measures for period-to-period comparisons of our business and provides additional insight into our core controllable costs. Accordingly, we believe that non-GAAP earnings (loss) per share of Class A common stockbasic and diluted provides information to investors and the market generally in understanding and evaluating our results of operations in the same manner as our management and board of directors. Our use of non-GAAP earnings (loss) per share of Class A common stockbasic and diluted has limitations as an analytical tool, and you should not consider it in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our financial results as reported under GAAP. Some of these potential limitations include: other companies, including companies in our industry that have similar business arrangements, may report non-GAAP earnings (loss) per share of Class A common stockbasic and diluted or similarly titled measures, but calculate them differently, which reduces their usefulness as comparative measures; and although the stock-based compensation related to the LTIP referred to above is non-cash in nature, non-GAAP earnings (loss) per share of Class A common stockbasic and diluted does not reflect its impact on net income (loss) attributable to all common stockholders. Because of these and other limitations, you should consider our non-GAAP measures only as supplemental to other GAAP-based financial performance measures, including earnings (loss) per share of Class A common stockbasic and diluted. Basic non-GAAP earnings (loss) per share of Class A common stock is calculated by dividing the non-GAAP net income (loss) attributable to Class A common stockholders by the number of weighted-average shares of Class A common stock outstanding. Shares of our Class B common stock do not share in our earnings or losses and are therefore not participating securities. As such, separate presentation of basic and diluted non-GAAP earnings (loss) of Class B common stock under the two-class method has not been presented. Diluted non-GAAP earnings (loss) per share of Class A common stock adjusts the basic non-GAAP earnings (loss) per share for the potential dilutive impact of common shares such as equity awards using the treasury-stock method and Class B common stock using the if-converted method. Diluted non-GAAP earnings (loss) per share of Class A common stock considers the impact of potentially dilutive securities except in periods in which there is a loss because the inclusion of the potential common shares would have an anti-dilutive effect. Shares of our Class B common stock, RSUs and nonqualified stock options are considered potentially dilutive shares of Class A common stock. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, Class B common stock and nonqualified stock 29 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (unaudited; tabular dollars in thousands, except for percentages and per share data) options amounts have been excluded from the computation of diluted earnings (loss) per share of Class A common stock because the effect would have been anti-dilutive under the if-converted and treasury stock method, respectively. The following tables present the reconciliation of earnings (loss) per share of Class A common stockbasic and diluted to non-GAAP earnings (loss) per share of Class A common stockbasic and diluted for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 Earnings (Loss) per Share Adjustments Non-GAAP Earnings (Loss) per Share Earnings (Loss) per Share Adjustments Non-GAAP Earnings (Loss) per Share Numerator Net loss $ (9,376) $ $ (9,376) $ (13,563) $ $ (13,563) Adjustments: Add back: Stock-based compensation 7,472 7,472 6,376 6,376 Add back: Restructuring(1) ` (79) (79) Income tax benefit (expense) related to Viant Technology Inc.'s share of adjustments(2) 169 169 416 416 Non-GAAP net loss (9,376) 7,562 (1,814) (13,563) 6,792 (6,771) Less: Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests(3) (6,896) 5,517 (1,379) (10,371) 4,887 (5,484) Net loss attributable to Viant Technology Inc.basic (2,480) 2,045 (435) (3,192) 1,905 (1,287) Add back: Reallocation of net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest from the assumed exchange of RSUs for Class A common stock (3) (3) Income tax benefit (expense) from the assumed exchange of RSUs for Class A common stock 1 1 Net loss attributable to Viant Technology Inc.diluted $ (2,480) $ 2,045 $ (435) $ (3,192) $ 1,903 $ (1,289) Denominator Weighted-average shares of Class A common stock outstanding basic 14,748 14,748 13,809 13,809 Effect of dilutive securities: Restricted stock units Nonqualified stock options Weighted-average shares of Class A common stock outstanding diluted 14,748 14,748 13,809 13,809 Earnings (loss) per share of Class A common stockbasic $ (0.17) $ 0.14 $ (0.03) $ (0.23) $ 0.14 $ (0.09) Earnings (loss) per share of Class A common stockdiluted $ (0.17) $ 0.14 $ (0.03) $ (0.23) $ 0.14 $ (0.09) Anti-dilutive shares excluded from earnings (loss) per share of Class A common stockdiluted: Restricted stock units 4,496 4,496 4,858 4,858 Nonqualified stock options 5,755 5,755 3,771 3,771 Shares of Class B common stock 47,082 47,082 47,082 47,082 Total shares excluded from earnings (loss) per share of Class A common stockdiluted 57,333 57,333 55,711 55,711 (1)Restructuring includes adjustments to severance charges initially recognized during the prior year. 30 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (unaudited; tabular dollars in thousands, except for percentages and per share data) (2)The estimated income tax effect of our share of non-GAAP reconciling items for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 are calculated using assumed blended tax rates of 28% and 24%, respectively, which represent our expected corporate tax rates, excluding discrete and non-recurring tax items. (3)The adjustment to net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests represents stock-based compensation attributed to the noncontrolling interest of our company outstanding during the period. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2023, we had cash and cash equivalents of $201.7 million and working capital, consisting of current assets less current liabilities, of $223.3 million, compared to cash and cash equivalents of $206.6 million and working capital of $227.7 million as of December 31, 2022. Our primary sources of cash are revenues derived from the programmatic purchase of advertising on our platform and our existing cash and cash equivalents, although we have, and may in the future, address our liquidity needs by utilizing our borrowing capacity under our asset-based revolving credit and security agreement (the Loan Agreement) we have with PNC Bank, obtaining debt financing from other sources, or raising additional funds by issuing equity. Our primary uses of cash are capital expenditures to develop our technology in support of enhancing our platform; purchases of property and equipment in support of our expanding headcount as a result of our growth; the payment of debt obligations used to finance our operations, capital expenditures, platform development and rapid growth; and future minimum payments under our non-cancelable operating leases. We intend to continue investing in critical areas of our business in 2023 to further accelerate demand for our product and growth across the platform. As of March 31, 2023, our material cash requirements from non-cancelable contractual obligations with an original duration of over one year included future minimum payments under our non-cancelable operating leases, which we estimate will be approximately $3.7 million for the remainder of 2023, $4.4 million in 2024, $4.3 million in 2025, $4.3 million in 2026, and $4.2 million in 2027, and non-cancelable contractual agreements related to the hosting of our data storage processing, storage, and other computing services, which we estimate will be approximately $8.8 million for the remainder of 2023, $6.1 million in 2024, $5.0 million in 2025, and $0.8 million in 2026. On February 9, 2021, in connection with our IPO, we entered into a tax receivable agreement (the Tax Receivable Agreement) with Viant Technology LLC, continuing members of Viant Technology LLC (our pre-IPO owners) and the TRA Representative (as defined in the Tax Receivable Agreement), as described under Note 10 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. As of March 31, 2023, we concluded that it was more likely than not that our deferred tax assets subject to the Tax Receivable Agreement would not be realized. Therefore, we currently do not expect to make payments under our Tax Receivable Agreement based on our estimates of future taxable income. As of March 31, 2023, the total unrecorded liability for our Tax Receivable Agreement is approximately $10.3 million. We assess our liquidity in terms of our ability to generate cash sufficient to fund our short- and long-term cash requirements. As such, we project our anticipated cash requirements as well as cash flows generated from operating activities to meet those needs. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents, cash flow from revenues derived from the programmatic purchase of advertising on our platform, and the undrawn availability under our revolving credit facility from the Loan Agreement with PNC Bank will be sufficient to meet our cash requirements over the next 12 months. We believe we will meet longer-term expected future cash requirements and obligations beyond the next 12 months through a combination of existing cash and cash equivalents, cash flow from operations, the undrawn availability under our credit facility and issuances of equity securities or debt offerings. Our ability to fund longer-term operating needs will depend on our ability to generate positive cash flows through programmatic advertising purchases on our platform, our ability to access the capital markets, and other factors, including those discussed under the section titled Risk Factors in this Quarterly Report. We did not have any other off-balance sheet arrangements as of March 31, 2023 other than the minimum payments under the operating leases, hosting arrangements, and the indemnification agreements described in Note 13Commitments and Contingencies to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. We are a holding company with no operations of our own and are dependent on distributions from Viant Technology LLC to pay our taxes and satisfy any current or future cash requirements. Our Loan Agreement with PNC Bank imposes, and any future credit facilities may impose, limitations on our ability and the ability of Viant Technology LLC to pay dividends to third parties. Revolving Credit Facility As of March 31, 2023, our Loan Agreement with PNC Bank provided us with access to a $40.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility through October 31, 2024 and is collateralized by security interests in substantially all of our assets. As of March 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, there was no outstanding balance and up to $39.6 million of undrawn availability under the 31 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (unaudited; tabular dollars in thousands, except for percentages and per share data) Loan Agreement. On April 4, 2023, we entered into an amendment to the Loan Agreement with PNC Bank that provides for an increase in the revolving credit facility, extends the maturity date, and changes the rates at which advances under the loan agreement will bear interest. Refer to Note 14Subsequent Events to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report for additional information. The Loan Agreement contains customary conditions to borrowings, events of default and covenants, and also contains a financial covenant requiring us not to exceed a maximum leverage ratio at any time our undrawn availability under the Loan Agreement is less than 25%. As of March 31, 2023, we were in compliance with this covenant, and we do not believe this covenant or any other provision in the Loan Agreement will materially impact our liquidity or otherwise restrict our ability to execute on our business plan during or beyond the next 12 months. For further discussion of our Loan Agreement with PNC Bank, refer to Note 8Revolving Credit Facility to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Data Cash flows provided by (used in) operating activities $ (565) $ 11,570 Cash flows used in investing activities (2,673) (2,098) Cash flows used in financing activities (1,593) (16) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (4,831) $ 9,456 Cash Flows Provided by (Used in) Operating Activities Our cash flows from operating activities have been primarily influenced by growth in our operations, increases or decreases in collections from our customers and related payments to our suppliers of advertising media and data. Cash flows from operating activities have been affected by changes in our working capital, particularly changes in accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities. The timing of cash receipts from customers and payments to suppliers can significantly impact our cash flows from operating activities. We typically pay suppliers in advance of collections from our customers. Our collection and payment cycles can vary from period to period. In addition, we expect seasonality to impact cash flows from operating activities on a quarterly basis. Our cash flows used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $0.6 million, a net decrease of $12.1 million, or 105%, from cash flows provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2022 of $11.6 million. Cash flows used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 resulted primarily from: a decrease of $9.4 million from net loss; an increase of $12.0 million due to non-cash add back adjustments to net loss primarily comprised of $7.5 million for stock-based compensation, $3.4 million for depreciation and amortization, and $1.0 million of amortization of operating lease assets; an increase of $2.4 million from changes in working capital (excluding deferred revenue, other liabilities, and operating lease liabilities), including a net increase of $23.8 million in accounts receivable, prepaid assets and other assets primarily related to lower sales and timing of customer collections due to seasonal fluctuations, partially offset by a decrease of $26.2 million in accounts payable, accrued liabilities and accrued compensation primarily related to timing of payments; an increase in deferred revenue of $0.9 million; a decrease in operating lease liabilities of $0.7 million; and a decrease in other liabilities of $1.0 million. During the three months ended March 31, 2022, cash provided by operating activities of $11.6 million resulted primarily from a net loss of $13.6 million offset by non-cash add back adjustments to net loss of $6.4 million for stock-based compensation, $3.2 million for depreciation and amortization, $0.1 million in recovery of doubtful accounts, $0.7 million of amortization of operating lease assets, and an increase in net working capital (excluding deferred revenue and other liabilities) of $22.9 million, offset by a 32 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (unaudited; tabular dollars in thousands, except for percentages and per share data) decrease in deferred revenue of $6.5 million, a decrease in other liabilities of $1.1 million, and a decrease in operating lease liabilities of $0.5 million . Cash Flows Used in Investing Activities Our primary investing activities have consisted of capital expenditures to develop our technology in support of enhancing our platform and purchases of property and equipment in support of our growth. We capitalize certain costs associated with creating and enhancing internally developed software related to our technology infrastructure that are recorded within property, equipment and software, net. These costs include personnel and related employee benefit expenses for employees who are directly associated with and who devote time to platform development projects. Purchases of property and equipment and capitalized software development costs may vary from period-to-period due to the timing of the expansion of our operations, the addition or reduction of headcount and our platform development cycles. As a result of capitalization of stock-based compensation in future periods and the growth of our business, we expect our capital expenditures and our investment activity to continue to increase. Our cash flows used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $2.7 million, a net increase of $0.6 million, or 27%, from cash flows used in investing activities for three months ended March 31, 2022 of $2.1 million. The change in cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2023 were primarily due to: $2.4 million of investments in capitalized software to develop our technology in support of enhancing our platform; and $0.3 million of purchases of property and equipment. During the three months ended March 31, 2022, cash used in investing activities of $2.1 million resulted primarily from investments in capitalized software development costs. Cash Flows Used In Financing Activities Our financing activities have consisted primarily of proceeds from borrowings and repayments of our debt, issuances of our equity and payments of member distributions. Net cash provided by or used in financing activities has been and will be used to finance our operations, capital expenditures, platform development and our growth. Our cash flows used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $1.6 million, which primarily consisted of taxes paid related to the net share settlement of equity awards. Cash flows used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was de minimis. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. An accounting policy is deemed to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made and have had or are reasonably likely to have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. We believe that the assumptions and estimates associated with the evaluation of revenue recognition criteria, including the determination of revenue recognition net versus gross assessment in our revenue arrangements, the assumptions used in the valuation models to determine the fair value of common stock and stock-based compensation, internal use software, and the assumptions used in the calculation of our expected loss rate used to determine our credit loss reserve have the greatest potential impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. Therefore, we consider these to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. Since the date of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, there have been no material changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Part II, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements For information regarding recently issued accounting pronouncements, see Note 2Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 33