Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation s Key Operating and Financial Performance Metric s Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures. Our Industry We believe the key industry trends shaping the advertising market include: Advertising dollars shifting towards programmatic advertising: We believe the advertising industry is still in the early stages of a shift to programmatic advertising. The ability to transact through real-time-bidding platforms has evolved beyond banner advertising to be used across a wide range of advertising channels and formats, including desktop, mobile, connected TV, linear TV, streaming audio and digital billboards. U.S. programmatic advertising is experiencing a rapid increase in adoption and, according to eMarketer, is expected to grow at a 21% CAGR from 2018 to 2022, reaching $94 billion in 2020, $118 billion in 2021 and $140 billion by 2022. U.S. programmatic advertising is forecasted to represent 48% of total U.S. media spend by 2022, increasing from 29% in 2018. The TV industry is undergoing significant disruptions as Internet-enabled connected TV has become a preferred vehicle for streaming video content. The amount of connected TV users in the U.S. is forecasted to increase from 195 million, or 59% of the U.S. population, in 2019 to 226 million, or 66% of the U.S. population, in 2024, according to eMarketer. Connected TV also provides a number of benefits to advertisers, including more accurate control of scale, addressability, and measurement. Marketers are increasingly investing in connected TV as more inventory becomes available. According to eMarketer, 51% of connected TV ad spend was transacted programmatically in 2019 and the share of programmatic will increase to nearly 60% in 2021. In addition, connected TV ad spend is expected to grow from $6 billion in 2019 to $8 billion in 2020 to $18 billion in 2024, a 25% CAGR. Strong marketer demand for Return-On-Advertising-Spend measurement across all channels: Marketers are looking for a centralized view of their customers, while connecting online and offline purchases to accurately measure ROAS. Return-on-advertising-spend is a critical metric for marketing campaigns. Insights from ROAS across all campaigns inform marketers about what they are getting for their money across all media investments near real-time. Hence, marketers seek tools to track their ROAS across all channels. We believe people-based platforms are able to provide a more accurate measurement of ROAS as compared to cookie-based platforms. Demand for scaled people-based platforms: Advertising has become more data driven and marketers need to be able to target audiences at the individual and household level while respecting consumer privacy. Internet advertisers in the past have capitalized on anonymous data from cookies to gain insights into users and ad performance. However, increased privacy concerns and changing requirements of browser providers including Google (Chrome) and Apple (Safari) are causing marketers to reduce their reliance on vendors and software platforms that primarily utilize cookies for device identification. In todays connected world, marketers need to be able to identify their customers and connect with them across multiple channels, devices and formats. This is driving an industry shift away from cookie-based DSPs to scaled people-based DSPs. Brands directly selecting advertising software solution s : Marketers are increasingly becoming directly involved in the selection of their advertising software solutions as they seek to reduce costs, better leverage their customer data and gain more control over their advertising. These factors have also led to an increase in marketers moving programmatic ad buying functions in-house. The automation of ad-buying technology has enabled fast, accurate and cost-effective decision-making, resulting in ad buying becoming a skillset that an increasing number of Chief Marketing Officers (CMOs) want to fully own. According to a recent survey by IAB in 2019, 18% of U.S. brands have completely moved programmatic ad buying in-house, and 51% of U.S. brands have moved a portion of their programmatic ad buying in-house. 5 Our Market Opportunity We believe that over the long term, our total addressable market is the total global advertising market which, according to eMarketer, is forecasted to grow from $614 billion in 2020 to $846 billion in 2024, an 8% CAGR. Currently, our focus is primarily on the U.S. market, and according to eMarketer, desktop, mobile, connected TV, linear TV, streaming audio and digital billboard channels are forecasted to grow from $205 billion in 2020 to $314 billion in 2024 in the U.S., an 11% CAGR, broken into the following segments: Mobile and Desktop: According to eMarketer, U.S. mobile and desktop advertising are forecasted to be a $129.7 billion market in 2020 and forecasted to grow to $218.2 billion in 2024, a 14% CAGR. Connected TV: According to eMarketer, U.S. connected TV advertising is forecasted to be an $8.1 billion market in 2020 and forecasted to grow to $18.3 billion in 2024, a 23% CAGR. Connected TV includes over-the-top (OTT) content delivered through a connected device over the internet. Linear TV: According to eMarketer, U.S. linear TV advertising is forecasted to be a $60.0 billion market in 2020 and forecasted to grow to $67.5 billion in 2024, a 3% CAGR. Streaming Audio: According to eMarketer, U.S. digital audio advertising is forecasted to be a $4.5 billion market in 2020 and forecasted to grow to $6.3 billion in 2024, a 9% CAGR. Digital Billboard s : According to eMarketer, U.S. billboard advertising is forecasted to be a $2.2 billion market in 2020 and forecasted to grow to $3.6 billion in 2024, a 14% CAGR. The forecasts above include both programmatic and non-programmatic digital advertising. In recent years, programmatic advertising has represented an increasing portion of total U.S. media spend. According to eMarketer, the U.S. advertising market, as represented by desktop, mobile, connected TV, linear TV, streaming audio and digital billboard channel s , is forecasted to grow from $205 billion in 2020 to $241 billion in 2021 and $269 billion in 2022. Our Solution We provide a software platform that enables marketers and their advertising agencies to plan, buy and measure their advertising across channels. Integrated with our people-based capabilities, we provide our customers with a full suite of forecasting, reporting and automation functionality to make informed decisions around their advertising investments. Cloud-Based, Self-Service Portal: Our software is available in a self-service interface, providing customers with transparency and control over their advertising campaigns and underlying data infrastructure. Customers can log on to the self-service platform to immediately creat e , update or re-align campaigns themselves, without having to involve our employees or any third parties. Omnichannel Demand Side Platform: We are a demand side platform for ad buyers. Marketers and their agencies can use our integrated software platform to efficiently manage omnichannel campaigns and access metrics from each channel to inform decisions in other channels. Our integrations enable the purchase of advertising media across desktop, mobile, connected TV, linear TV, streaming audio and digital billboards. Our technology leverages machine learning to identify the best supply partners, formats and impressions based on our customers goals. Advanced Reporting and Measurement: We invest heavily in our measurement capabilitie s , as we believe this will increase our customers usage of our software. Our software and self-service data lake empower customers with differentiated insights, including foot-traffic data reports, multi-touch attribution and ROAS analytics. Leveraging our people-based framework and machine learning algorithms, our platform provides marketers real-time actionable insights throughout an advertising campaign. Our built-in automation enables marketers to optimize digital campaigns designed to achieve their KPI goals. 6 People-Based Identification for Advertising: Our identity resolution capabilities and identity graph reduce or eliminate the need for cookies by enabling matching of people-based identifiers, and allow marketers to reach targeted consumers in a privacy-conscious manner, irrespective of device or channel. Our identity graph is matched to more than 250 million users across 115 million households in the U.S., which we believe makes it one of the largest in the industry. Onboarding: We enable marketers to onboard their first-party data to gain a view into their customers top attributes, create targeting segments and easily activate these customer segments. Our simple interface allows marketers to upload audience data with ease and create a unique segment or build look-a-like audiences without the need for a separate data management platform. Our data integrations provide marketers with high match rates, which leads to meaningful audience insights for segmentation and targeting. Our Strengths We believe the following attributes and capabilities provide us with long-term competitive advantages: Scalable Self-Service Platform: We offer a self-service platform that enables customers to operate their ad campaigns without extensive involvement of our staff. This dynamic allows us to add new customers and allows customers to scale their spend on our platform in a manner that grows our revenue at a faster pace than the growth of our personnel costs. Centralized Platform: We believe our software platform enables our customers to plan, buy and measure advertising across more channels than our competitors and to centralize the purchase of each type of programmatic media on a single platform. Our supply integrations provide customers with access to over 300 million unique desktop and mobile users, 114 million connected TVs, 112 million linear TV households, over 200 million unique streaming audio users and 158,000 unique digital billboard s , in the U.S. Proprietary Technology: We leverage a robust suite of proprietary tools and products in order to enable our customers to utilize our platform and services. We are constantly iterating and developing new tools and products while utilizing our patented technologies and processes. As of December 31, 2020, we have 26 issued patents and 10 additional pending patent application s , which cover many of our proprietary products. As new offerings are develope d , we continue to file and obtain patents on the most valuable and innovative products developed at the company. Machine Learning Capabilities: We enable the use of machine learning, workflow automation, automated reporting and other functionalities that allow our customers to update and make thousands of changes automatically to help achieve their desired business outcomes. These capabilities make our customers lives easier and improve the performance of their campaigns. Advance d Reportin g an d Measurement : W e inves t heavil y i n ou r measuremen t capabilities , a s we believ e thi s wil l increas e ou r customers usag e o f ou r software . Ou r platfor m measure s ROA S acros s all channel s an d empower s ou r customer s wit h real-tim e insight s leveragin g people-base d data , including foot-traffi c report s an d multi-touc h attributio n analytics . Ou r advance d reportin g functionalit y use s our identit y grap h tha t i s currentl y matche d t o mor e tha n 25 0 millio n user s acros s 11 5 millio n household s in th e U.S . t o provid e marketer s wit h a holisti c vie w o f measuremen t acros s al l channels. Differentiated People-Based Capabilities: Our software is built on a people-based framework. We integrate with over 70 data partners using people-based identifiers. We believe this allows for a much more effective and privacy-friendly approach to advertising than using cookies for identificatio n . Our platform is built on a foundation of user consent with advanced consumer opt-out capabilities to keep privacy and security on the forefront. 7 Experienced Management Team: Our management team has deep and extensive experience in the advertising technology sector, which we believe provides us with a competitive advantage. This experience of our management team has allowed us to continue to be innovative in developing solutions for our customers. Profitabl e Busines s Model : Becaus e w e ar e a self-servic e platform , a s w e ad d ne w customer s an d as customer s increas e th e us e o f ou r software , w e ar e abl e t o demonstrat e stron g operatin g leverage. Durin g th e yea rs ende d Decembe r 31 , 2020 and 2019, revenu e wa s $165. 3 million and 164.9 million, respectively . Our ne t incom e wa s $20.6 million and $9. 9 millio n an d our Adjuste d EBITD A wa s $31.8 million and $24. 7 million during the years ended Decembe r 31 , 2020 and 2019 , respectively . Our Growth Strategy We believe that the advertising market is in the early stages of a secular shift towards programmatic advertising. We intend to capitalize on this opportunity by pursuing the following strategies: Continue to invest in our customers success: Our platform provides extensive functionality designed to provide our customers with a high level of control and enable them to run the most efficient campaigns. We continue to enhance new customer onboarding and support while investing in training and education for customers to maximize their success with the platform. Add new customers and increase our customers usage of our platfor m : We continue to add functionality to our platform to attract new customers and encourage our customers to increase their usage of our platform. We believe many advertisers are in the early stages of moving a greater percentage of their advertising budgets to programmatic channels. By providing solutions for the planning, buying and measuring of their media spend across all channels we believe we are well positioned to capture the increase in programmatic budgets from new and existing customer s . Continue to strengthen our omnichannel partnerships: We believe we have the largest breadth of advertising inventory across channels in our industry landscape. We will continue to invest in the integration of new supply partners across all channels, further broadening and deepening our supply of advertising inventor y . Expand our sales and marketing investment: We intend to continue to expand sales and marketing efforts to increase awareness and consideration of our platform and promote the advantages of our people-based framework as cookie-based options continue to decline. Extend our leadership position in people-based advertising: We believe there is significant value in continuing to invest in enhancing our identity resolution capabilities through additional people-based data integrations. Invest in growth through acquisitions: We also intend to invest in acquisitions to offer new products and to capitalize on our large and growing market opportunity. To the extent we find attractive acquisition candidates and business opportunities in the future, we may continue to acquire complementary businesses, products and technologies. 8 Our Platform Our platform enables a marketer or their agency to programmatically buy an ad in linear television, a digital billboard on the side of the highway, a streaming ad on connected TVs, an ad in your favorite mobile app or on your favorite podcast or a dynamically personalized ad on any website, all within a single user interface. The key components of our platform include: Omnichannel DSP: We offer an omni-channel, people-based DSP that provides enterprise-ready, self-service technology to enable our customers to engage with consumers across all channels, devices, and formats. Comprehensive Forecasting. Our platform allows customers to plan future marketing campaigns based on desired targeting tactics by utilizing historical bid request data to project performance onto available inventory. Customers can easily apply multiple data segmentation filters and see what ad inventory is available and at what price. Easy Campaign Setup. Our intuitive user interface enables marketers to seamlessly move from forecasting to launching live advertising campaigns. Our platform reduces the time from planning a campaign to execution, helping marketers to fluidly execute deterministic cross-channel campaigns using a variety of quality data and supply partners to reach their target audience. Campaign Decisioning. We offer the ability to continuously measure and optimize campaigns by leveraging powerful KPIs directly within platform reports. Marketers have the ability to log on to the self-service platform to immediately pause, update or re-align campaigns, even if they have already started. This granular decision-making ability provides customers more accurate and real-time understanding over the performance of their live campaigns. 9 Identity Management: Marketers can easily sync customer data, build custom audiences, extend target audiences and understand audience insights seamlessly within our cloud-based, on-demand platform. Onboarding. Through our simple interface, marketers can easily upload and leverage their first-party data. We enable marketers to onboard their first-party data and instantly gain a view into their customers top attributes, create targeting segments and easily activate these customer segments. Look-a-Like Modeling. We help expand the reach of an existing audience segment or prospect list for new customers. Identity Direct Match to More than 70 Data Partners. Our DSP is integrated with more than 70 data partners. We use people-based identifiers to integrate with these data partners, which allows for marketers to achieve high match rates against 280,000 audience segments for use in targeted ad campaign s . Our latest software innovation, Mediator, quickly matches demand and supply and we believe efficiency will increase significantly as we continue to improve the software. Privacy and Security. We believe in giving consumers more transparency, choice, and control over how their data is used in digital advertising. We support most advanced hashing protocols and make data protection a top priority for consumers and customer s . Advanced Reporting: We close the loop on digital and traditional media by linking advertising spend to online and offline sales. Reach and Frequency. Our platform accurately measures how many households and unique users an advertising campaign reached and the frequency of exposures. Cross-Channel Suite. Our cross-channel reporting capabilities equip customers to analyze cross-device and cross-channel campaign impact on sales and other key performance indicators. TV Reporting Suite. Our TV reporting suite gives insights into the impact connected and linear television advertising has on driving digital engagement like website visits or conversions, as well as offline sales. These insights create better visibility into the true ROAS of TV ad campaigns. Multi - Touch Attribution (MTA). Our MTA suite gives customers the ability to report on six different attribution models, ingest online and offline files and gain visibility into consumer purchase pathways. The resulting holistic view of ad performance enables customers to close the loop in measurement and better link spend to sales. Foot Traffic Attribution. Our foot traffic data reporting capabilities allow customers to analyze the impact of their ad campaigns on driving visits to a physical location. Digital Billboard Reporting Suite. Our digital billboard reporting suite provides a holistic view of ad spend, giving customers real-time insights into their digital billboard ad performance and helping customers optimize budgets by allocating ad spend on effective digital billboards and venue types. Automated Brand Surveys. Customers using our reporting capabilities can generate on-demand surveys to better gauge the effectiveness of advertising campaigns. Brand surveys deliver automated feedback and give customers the ability to create accurate benchmarks for historical performance and for measurement of advertising performance with a real-time feedback loop. 10 Our platform is built with ad buyers in mind and offers many in-depth features that give buyers the highest levels of control, which helps ensure they are running the most efficient campaigns possible. This includes: Bulk Functionality: Our platform is built to ease the lives of programmatic traders. With Adelphic, traders can mass edit ad orders and campaigns, instead of making individual changes one at a time, saving significant time. For example, if a trader wants to change the bid price for all 1,000 of their ad orders, they could simply download a form and upload it, rather than wasting time by editing each ad order one by one. API Capabilities: Adelphic provides ease of integration using APIs and tools. The API capabilities provide bilateral data syndication into or out of the platform for trafficking and reporting in formats easily accepted by business intelligence teams for programmatic traders. With these, traders can maintain customer identities with a fully integrated platform that links devices and offline activities to real people and seamlessly execute and measure campaigns. Machine Learning Algorithms: Our built-in advanced machine learning technology analyzes millions of impressions and data points every second. Our algorithms find optimal bid prices for maximizing performance and scale across all major KPIs, allowing our customers to strengthen their campaign efforts and build confidence in programmatic campaign performance. Our Technology and Development Rapid and continuing innovation is a core driver of our business success and our corporate culture. Our product and engineering team is responsible for the design, development and testing of our platform. We are committed to continuous innovation and rapid introduction of new technologies, features and functionality that bring value to our customers. We expect technology and development expense and capitalized software development costs to increase as we continue to invest in the development of our platform to support additional features and functions, such as enhancement of our user interface and automation functions, and to increase the number of advertising and data inventory integrations in various channel s . The technical infrastructure for our platform is currently managed through third-party web hosting services providers and to a limited extent, our own servers which are located at a third-party data center facility. We generally enter into one to two year agreements with our web hosting providers. Our Customers Our customers consist of purchasers of programmatic advertising inventory. We define an Active Customer as a customer that had total aggregate revenue ex-TAC of at least $5,000 through our platform during the previous twelve months. We had 264 and 277 Active Customers for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, in each case consisting of advertising buyers, including large advertising holding companies, independent advertising agencies, mid-market advertising service organizations as well as marketers relying on our self-service software platform for their programmatic ad buying needs. For a detailed discussion of Active Customers, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationKey Operating and Financial Performance MetricsNumber of Active Customers and Average Revenue ex-TAC per Active Customer. Revenue ex-TAC is a non-GAAP measure. For a detailed discussion of our key operating and financial performance metrics and a reconciliation of revenue ex-TAC to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationKey Operating and Financial Performance MetricsUse of Non-GAAP Financial Measures. 11 Many of the advertising agencies that we work with are owned by holding companies, where decision-making is generally highly decentralized such that purchasing decisions are made, and relationships with advertisers are located, at the agency, local branch or division level. Our customer count includes only those parties with which we have a billing relationship. We contract with our customers either through master service agreements or insertion orders. Our agreements do not contain any material commitments on behalf of customers to use our platform to purchase ad inventory or use other features. Our agreements with customers generally do not have a specified term, and are generally terminable at any time by either party upon specified notice periods, typically ranging from 30 to 90 days. Insertion orders are generally limited in scope and can be reduced or canceled by a buyer without penalty. Our Advertising and Data Supply We obtain digital advertising inventory primarily through our integrations with supply side platforms (SSPs) and directly with publishers. We believe that our integrations across every channel give us the most robust omnichannel integrations of any single platform. These suppliers provide us with access to a breadth of programmatic advertising inventory across desktop, mobile, connected TV, linear TV, streaming audio and digital billboards. We enable deep data access through our integrations with over 70 leading data companies , giving our customers access to data across key industry verticals, including auto, retail, consumer packaged goods, travel and health. Customers onboard their own first-party data onto our platform, without the need of a separate data management platform. Our operation of Myspace.com provides certain data assets and intellectual property that we may leverage to continue to offer innovative products and services to our clients. Sales and Marketing We sell our platform through a direct sales team focused on business development across all markets, including sales to new customers and revenue growth within existing customers. We have an experienced sales team of 75 sellers across the United States who are focused on selling access to our platform in our target markets, building and nurturing relationships with global brands and agencies. We use a consultative sales approach focused on educating existing and potential customers on our platform capabilities, and training clients to use our platform. We offer a formal certification program, Programmatic University and Adelphic Certification, that covers programmatic industry trends, technology capabilities and time-saving workflows and have an online knowledge base with robust documentation. We provide dedicated customer support and work with customers as they set up and optimize their campaigns, assist with delivery against key performance indicators and goals, and provide post-campaign support and recommendations. We tailor our contracts and terms to the needs of our customers, including by offering our three different pricing options: a percentage of spend option, a subscription option and a fixed CPM pricing option. Customers can use our platform on a self-service basis or can enlist our services to execute their campaigns. Our marketing efforts are focused on increasing awareness and consideration for our brands, executing thought-leadership initiatives, participating in industry events, creating comprehensive sales support materials and generating new customer leads. We seek to accomplish these objectives by presenting at industry conferences, hosting customer conferences, publishing white papers and research, public relations activities, advertising campaigns and social media presence. Privacy and Data Protection Modern consumers use multiple platforms to learn about and purchase products and services, and consumers have come to expect a seamless experience across all channels. This challenges marketing organizations to balance the demands of the consumer and the most effective advertising techniques with responsible, privacy-compliant methods of managing data internally and with advertising technology intermediaries. 12 We believe strongly in providing consumers with more visibility and control over their data. We have prioritized protecting the privacy of consumers and their data and offer consumers a robust suite of tools to manage their data. We have policies and operational practices governing our use of data that are designed to actively promote a set of meaningful privacy guidelines, including advanced consumer opt-out capability, best in class security measures, encryption of data using robust industry standards, proactive identification of threats and regular penetration testing. When giving our customers access to personal data, we provide that data in a hashed, or de-identified, manner. We have dedicated personnel in place to oversee our compliance with the data protection regulations that govern our business activities in the jurisdictions in which we operate. The U.S. Congress and state legislatures, along with federal regulatory authorities, have recently increased their attention on matters concerning the collection and use of consumer data, including relating to internet-based advertising. Data privacy legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Congress, and California has enacted broad-based privacy legislation, the California Consumer Privacy Act. State legislatures outside of California have proposed, and in certain cases enacted, a variety of types of data privacy legislation. Many non-U.S. jurisdictions have also enacted or are developing laws and regulations governing the collection and use of personal data. We expect the trend of enacting and revising data protection laws to continue and that new and expanded data privacy legislation in various forms will be implemented in the U.S. and in other countries around the globe. Competition Our industry is highly competitive and fragmented. We compete with smaller, privately-held companies, along with public companies such as the Trade Desk, and with divisions of large, well-established companies such as Google and Amazon. The competitive landscape in recent years has been affected by consolidation and limited investment in new startups in our industry and there are few competitors with self-service capabilitie s . Our long history and time in the market with customers has given us significant advantages in terms of platform development and expertis e , as well as a long development lead ahead of new entrant s . We believe that we compete primarily based on the performance of campaigns running on our platform, capabilities of our platform, our identity resolution capabilities, our omnichannel capabilities and our advance reporting capabilities. We believe that we are differentiated from our competitors in the following areas: we are an independent technology company focused on serving advertising agencies and marketers on the buy-side of our industry; our platform is self-service and easy to use; we offer our DSP in an integrated manner with our people-based capabilities, so customers do not need to use separate providers for onboarding client information and ad and data purchasing services; our platform provides comprehensive access to a wide range of inventory types across a broad range of channels; our platform provides comprehensive access to a wide range of data partners across a broad range of industry verticals and channels to enable precise audience targeting and measurement; our identity resolution capabilities help marketers plan, buy and measure their campaigns more effectively; we provide customer service and satisfaction; and we provide flexible pricing options to support a wide variety of customers. 13 Our Human Capital We are a founder-led business and believe our employees and culture are key to our success. Our employees tend to be long tenured for our industry, with average tenure of the leadership team of nearly 12 years and more than 4 years across all employees. Our business and our culture are anchored on four core values that embody our resourceful mentality: Live, Lead, Create and Figure It Out. We believe we attract talented employees to our company and sophisticated customers to our platform in large part because of our vision and unwavering commitment to using cutting-edge technologies to create products that help advance the advertising industry. As of December 31, 2020, we had 289 employees in 10 offices around the United States. Our team draws from a broad spectrum of backgrounds and experiences across technology and advertising industries. Diversity and Inclusion We are committed to fostering a culture of inclusion where all employees feel valued and included. We believe our greatest asset is the people who work for us, and as part of our investment in our people, we prioritize diversity and inclusion. Our goal is to create a culture where we value, respect, and provide fair treatment and opportunities for all employees. Each year, we conduct an annual survey to give employees the opportunity to provide feedback on our management team and culture. This survey helps drive new programs that continue the development of our inclusive culture. Our leaders review the survey feedback and work with their teams to initiate new initiatives based on the results. We are committed to developing a diverse environment through recruiting, development programs, community involvement and fostering conversations about differences. Talent Development Even though Viant has been around for 20+ years, our culture still reflects an entrepreneurial spirit. We empower employees to develop their skills and abilities by following our core values and acting on great ideas regardless of their role or function. We encourage employees at all levels to be creative and come up with ideas that can help the business grow. We work to provide an environment where talented individuals and teams can take control of their career growth. We provide a wide range of learning and development opportunities in both individual and group settings. Compensation and Benefits We provide compensation and benefits programs to help meet the needs of our employees and reward their efforts and contributions. We use internal and external resources to help develop plans that are fair and reward our employees commitment and performance with the goal of attracting and retaining high performing individuals. In addition to salaries, we provide competitive compensation programs that are in line with our peers and industry. These programs may include bonuses, equity awards, 401(k) plan, healthcare and insurance benefits, flexible spending accounts, paid time off, family leave and employee assistance programs among many others. Health, Safety and Wellness We strive to provide a work environment where our employees feel safe and are comfortable working. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we immediately implemented a teleworking program that complied with all applicable government regulations and protected our employees while allowing them to continue to be effective in their jobs. We continue to stay updated on changes in government regulations and implement them to meet our employees changing health and wellness needs. Intellectual Property The protection of our technology and intellectual property is an important component of our success. We rely on intellectual property laws, including trade secret, copyright, patent and trademark laws in the U.S. and abroad, and use contracts, confidentiality procedures, non-disclosure agreements, employee disclosure and invention assignment agreements and other contractual rights to protect our intellectual property. 14 As of December 31 , 2020, we held 26 issued patents, 10 pending patent applications and 306 issued trademarks. Our issued patents are scheduled to expire between 2025 and 2038. We continually review our development efforts to assess the existence and patentability of new intellectual property. In addition to the intellectual property relating to the operation of Adelphic and our people-based framework, we own intellectual property related to our owned site, Myspace.com. Of our issued patents, 11 relate to our platform and our people-based framework, and 15 relate to the Myspace.com site. Corporate Information Viant was founded in 1999 by Tim, Chris and Russ Vanderhook who continue to lead our company today. Viant has been at the forefront of digital advertising technology since its inception and has demonstrated its ability to grow, thrive, and innovate as competitors have come and gone. In 2011, Viant acquired the social network website Myspace.com. In 2011, Tim and Chris Vanderhook started Xumo, a connected TV streaming service, which was acquired by Comcast Corp. in 2020. In 2015, Viant completed its first people-based integration. Viant remained independent until 2016, when Time Inc. acquired a 60% interest in Viant through its subsidiary, Viant Technology Holding Inc. (the Former Holdco). That interest was later acquired by Meredith Corporation when it acquired Time Inc. in 2018. In 2017, the Company purchased Adelphic, a DSP. Since the Adelphic acquisition, the Company has materially transformed from a full-service provider of digital advertising solutions into a leading DSP that enables marketers and their advertising agencies to centralize the planning, buying and measurement of their media investments using a people-based framework. Viant has grown from a business operating from a home office to a company with nearly 300 employees in 10 offices throughout the U.S. In 2019, Viant entered into an agreement that resulted in the retirement of the Former Holdcos interest in Viant and Tim Vanderhook, Chris Vanderhook and Four Brothers 2 LLC (the Vanderhook Parties) acquired that 60% interest in the Company (the 2019 Former Holdco transaction), allowing it to once again become an independent company. Viant Technology Inc. was incorporated in Delaware on October 9, 2020. In connection with the consummation of our initial public offering (the IPO), Viant Technology Inc. became the sole managing member of Viant Technology LLC. We completed the IPO of our Class A common stock on February 12, 2021. Our principal executive offices are located at 2722 Michelson Drive, Suite 100, Irvine, CA 92612 and our telephone number is (949) 861-8888. Our website address is www.viantinc.com. The SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Our Annual Report can be downloaded from the SECs website. We will file with or furnish to the SEC periodic reports and other information. We furnish or make available to our stockholders annual reports containing our audited financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. We also furnish or make available to our stockholders quarterly reports containing our unaudited interim financial information, for the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year. We make our periodic reports and other information filed with or furnished to the SEC available, free of charge, through our website, as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports and other information are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Information contained on our website or linked therein or otherwise connected thereto does not constitute part of nor is it incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. 15 Item 1A. Ri sk Factors. Investing in our Class A common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risks and uncertainties described below, together with all other information contained in this Annual Report and in our other public filings, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes appearing at the end of this Annual Report. The occurrence of any of the following risks, as well as any risks or uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe to be material, could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow, in which case, the trading price of our Class A common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Summary of Factors That May Affect Our Future Results The following summarizes the principal factors that make an investment in the Company speculative or risky. This summary should be read in conjunction with the remainder of this Risk Factors section and should not be relied upon as an exhaustive summary of the material risks facing our business. The occurrence of any of these risks could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or growth prospects or cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements we have made in this report and those we may make from time to time. You should consider all of the risk factors described in our public filings when evaluating our business. our ability to add new customers, effectively educate and train our existing customers on how to make full use of our platform and increase the usage of our platform by our customers; failure to realize the expected benefits of an industry shift away from cookie-based consumer tracking; the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and other sustained adverse market events on our and our customers business operations; our ability to innovate, effectively manage our growth and make the right investment decisions; the relatively new and evolving market for programmatic buying for advertising campaigns; the loss of a significant amount of revenue from select advertising agencies as customers; fluctuations in our operating results and the varying nature, in terms of mix, of our different pricing options; our lengthy sales cycle and payment-related risks; diminishment of, or failure to grow, our access to advertising inventory; the intensely competitive nature of the market in which we participate; and the impact on our business of data privacy regulation or data privacy breaches. 16 Risks Related to Our Business Our success and revenue growth is dependent on adding new customers, effectively educating and training our existing customers on how to make full use of our platform and increasing usage of our platform by our customers. Our success is dependent on regularly adding new customers and increasing our customers usage of our platform. Our contracts and relationships with customers generally do not include long-term or exclusive obligations requiring them to use our platform or maintain or increase their use of our platform. Our customers typically have relationships with numerous providers and can use both our platform and those of our competitors without incurring significant costs or disruption. Our customers may also choose to decrease their overall advertising spend for any reason, including if they do not believe they are receiving a sufficient return on their advertising spend. Accordingly, we must continually work to win new customers and retain existing customers, increase their usage of our platform and capture a larger share of their advertising spend. We may not be successful at educating and training customers, particularly our newer customers, on how to use our platform, in particular our advanced reporting tools, in order for our customers to get the most benefit from our platform and increase their usage. If these efforts are unsuccessful or customers decide not to continue to maintain or increase their usage of our platform for any other reason, or if we fail to attract new customers, our revenue could fail to grow or decline, which would materially and adversely harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We cannot assure you that our customers will continue to use and increase their spend on our platform or that we will be able to attract a sufficient number of new customers to continue to grow our business and revenue. If customers representing a significant portion of our business decide to materially reduce their use of our platform or cease using our platform altogether, our revenue could be significantly reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may not be able to replace customers who decrease or cease their usage of our platform with new customers that will use our platform to the same extent. We may not realize the expected benefits of an industry shift away from cookie-based consumer tracking as such shift may not occur as rapidly as we expect or may not be realized at all. We expect to benefit as compared to others in our industry from marketers reducing their reliance on vendors and software platforms that utilize third-party cookies for trackin g . However, we cannot assure you that the shift away from cookie-based consumer tracking will happen as rapidly as we expect or that such shift will occur at all. Additionally, even if the shift away from cookie-based consumer tracking does occur, we may not be as successful in growing our business and increasing our revenue as we expect. For example, marketers may not shift their business away from our competitors if our competitors are successful in developing alternative products or services that are not significantly reliant on the cookie-based framework. The effects of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and other sustained adverse market events have had, and could in the future have, an adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business and operations have been and could in the future be adversely affected by health epidemics, such as the global COVID-19 pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic and efforts to control its spread have curtailed the movement of people, goods and services worldwide, including in the regions in which we and our customers and partners operate, and are significantly impacting economic activity and financial markets. Many marketers, particularly those in the travel, retail and automotive industries, have decreased or paused their advertising spending as a response to the economic uncertainty, decline in business activity, and other COVID-19-related impacts, which has negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, our revenue and results of operations, the extent and duration of which we may not be able to accurately predict. The spread of an infectious disease may also result in, and, in the case of the COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in, regional quarantines, labor shortages or stoppages, changes in consumer purchasing patterns, disruptions to service providers ability to deliver data on a timely basis, or at all, and overall economic instability. 17 A recession, depression or other sustained adverse market events resulting from the spread of COVID-19 could materially and adversely affect our business and that of our customers or potential customers. Our customers and potential customers businesses or cash flows have been and may continue to be negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, which has led and may continue to lead them to reduce their advertising spending and delay their advertising initiatives or technology spending, or attempt to renegotiate contracts and obtain concessions, which may materially and negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Our customers may also seek adjustments to their payment terms, delay making payments or default on their payables, any of which may impact the timely receipt and/or collectability of our receivables. Typically, we are contractually required to pay advertising inventory and data suppliers within a negotiated period of time, regardless of whether our customers pay us on time, or at all, and we may not be able to renegotiate better terms. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted if the business or financial condition of our customers and marketers is negatively affected by the pandemic. Our operations are subject to a range of external factors related to the COVID-19 pandemic that are not within our control. We have taken precautionary measures intended to minimize the risk of the spread of the virus to our employees, partners and customers, and the communities in which we operate. A wide range of governmental restrictions has also been imposed on our employees, customers and partners physical movement to limit the spread of COVID-19. There can be no assurance that precautionary measures, whether adopted by us or imposed by others, will be effective, and such measures could negatively affect our sales, marketing, and customer service efforts, delay and lengthen our sales cycles, decrease our employees or customers or partners productivity, or create operational or other challenges, any of which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The economic uncertainty caused by the COVID-19 pandemic has made and may continue to make it difficult for us to forecast revenue and operating results and to make decisions regarding operational cost structures and investments. Our business depends on the overall demand for advertising and on the economic health of our customers that benefit from our platform. Economic downturns or unstable market conditions may cause our customers to decrease their advertising budgets, which could reduce usage of our platform and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We have committed, and we plan to continue to commit, resources to grow our business, including to expand our employee base and develop our platform and systems, and such investments may not yield anticipated returns, particularly if worldwide business activity continues to be impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. The duration and extent of the impact from the COVID-19 pandemic depend on future developments that cannot be accurately predicted at this time, and if we are not able to respond to and manage the impact of such events effectively, our business may be harmed. Such future developments may include, among others, the duration and spread of the outbreak, new information that may emerge concerning the severity of COVID-19 and government actions to contain COVID-19 or treat its impact, the level of relief efforts designed to help businesses and consumers, including any declines in such levels, impact on our customers and our sales cycles, impact on our customer, industry or employee events, and effect on our advertising inventory partners. Our results may also fluctuate unpredictably as and to the extent there is a recovery from the pandemic and a return to non-pandemic business conditions. We cannot predict the impact of a post-pandemic recovery on the economy, our customers or consumer media consumption patterns or the degree to which certain trends, such as the growth in demand for our connected TV offering, will continue. If we fail to innovate and make the right investment decisions in our offerings and platform, we may not attract and retain customers and our revenue and results of operations may decline. Our industry is subject to rapid and frequent changes in technology, evolving customer needs and the frequent introduction by our competitors of new and enhanced offerings. We must regularly make investment decisions regarding offerings and technology to maintain the technological competitiveness of our products and services and meet customer demand and evolving industry standards. The complexity and uncertainty regarding the development of new technologies and the extent and timing of market acceptance of innovative products and services create difficulties in maintaining this competitiveness. The success of any enhancement or new solution depends on many factors, including timely completion, adequate quality testing, appropriate introduction and market acceptance. Without the timely introduction of new products, services and enhancements, our offerings could become technologically or commercially obsolete over time, in which case our revenue and operating results would suffer. If new or existing competitors have more attractive offerings, we may lose customers or customers may decrease their use of our platform. New customer demands, superior competitive offerings or new industry standards could require us to make unanticipated and costly changes to our platform or business model. 18 If we fail to enhance our current products and services or fail to develop new products to adapt to our rapidly changing industry or to evolving customer needs, demand for our platform could decrease and our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. The market for programmatic buying for advertising campaigns is relatively new and evolving. If this market develops slower or differently than we expect, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. We derive revenue from the programmatic purchase of advertising on our platform. We expect that programmatic ad buying will continue to be our primary source of revenue for the foreseeable future, and that our revenue growth will largely depend on increasing our customers usage of our platform. While the market for programmatic ad buying for desktop and mobile display ads is relatively established, the market in other channels is still emerging, and our current and potential customers may not shift quickly enough to programmatic ad buying from other buying methods, which would reduce our growth potential. If the market for programmatic ad buying deteriorates or develops more slowly than we expect, it could reduce demand for our platform, and our business, growth prospects and financial condition would be adversely affected. In particular, the market for programmatic buying for advertising campaigns across multiple advertising channels, including connected TV, linear TV, streaming audio and digital billboard channels is an emerging market. Our ability to provide capabilities across multiple advertising channels, which we refer to as omnichannel, may be constrained if we are not be able to maintain or grow advertising inventory for such channels, and some of our omnichannel offerings may not gain market acceptance. We may not be able to accurately predict changes in overall industry demand for the channels in which we operate and cannot assure you that our investment in channel development will correspond to any such changes. For example, we cannot predict whether the growth in demand for our connected TV offering will continue. Furthermore, if our channel mix changes due to a shift in customer demand, such as customers shifting their usage more quickly or more extensively than expected to channels in which we have relatively less functionality, features, or inventory, such as linear TV, then demand for our platform could decrease, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. We receive a significant amount of revenue from a select number of advertising agency holding companie s , owning various advertising agencies, and the loss of advertising agencies as customers could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. A significant amount of our revenue comes from advertising agencies. We had 264 Active Customers for the year ended December 31, 2020, consisting primarily of advertising agencies. Many of these agencies are owned by advertising agency holding companies, where decision making is generally highly decentralized such that purchasing decisions are made, and relationships with marketers are located, at the agency, local branch or division level. If all of our individual customer contractual relationships were aggregated at the holding company level, two advertising agency holding companies would represent 13.3% and 13.2%, respectively, of our revenue for 2020. Due to the highly decentralized operations and decision-making at the agencies owned by each of these advertising agency holding companies, we consider the individual agencies rather than the holding company to be our customers. Often, we enter into separate contracts and billing relationships with the individual agencies and account for them as separate customers. However, some holding companies for these agencies may choose to exert control over the individual agencies in the future. If so, any loss of relationships with such holding companies and, consequently, of their agencies, local branches or divisions, as customers could significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We do not have exclusive relationships with advertising agencies and we depend on agencies to work with us as they embark on advertising campaigns for their clients. The loss of such agencies could significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we fail to maintain satisfactory relationships with an advertising agency, we risk losing business from the marketers represented by that agency. 19 Marketers may change advertising agencies. If a marketer switches from an agency that utilizes our platform to one that does not, we could lose revenue from that marketer. In addition, some advertising agencies have strong relationships with competing DSPs or other platforms and may direct their marketers to such other platforms. We may experience fluctuations in our operating results, which could make our future operating results difficult to predict or cause our operating results to fall below securities analysts and investors expectations. Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated in the past and we expect our future operating results to fluctuate due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. In particular, we offer our customers a choice of three different pricing options: a percentage of spend option, a subscription option and a fixed cost per mille (CPM) pricing option. We also offer our customers the ability to use our services to aid them in data management, media execution and advanced reporting. Our revenue and revenue ex-TAC vary across these different pricing and service options, and therefore our results may vary based on the mix of pricing and service options chosen by customers in any given period. The varying nature of our pricing mix between periods therefore may make it more difficult for us to forecast our future operating results. Further, variation in our pricing mix may make it more difficult to make comparisons between prior, current and future periods. Period-to-period comparisons of our operating results should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. Fluctuations in our operating results could cause our performance to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, and adversely affect the price of our Class A common stock. Because our business is changing and evolving rapidly, and the macroeconomic environment continues to evolve as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, our historical operating results may not be necessarily indicative of our future operating results. It is also difficult to predict the impact of a post-pandemic recovery on our business and operating results. In addition to changes in terms of mix of our different pricing options, factors that may cause our operating results to fluctuate include the following: changes in demand for our platform, including those related to the seasonal nature of our customers spending on digital advertising campaigns; changes in our pricing policies, the pricing policies of our competitors and the pricing or availability of inventory, data or other third-party services; changes in our customer base and platform offerings; the addition or loss of advertising agencies and marketers as customers; changes in advertising budget allocations, agency affiliations or marketing strategies; changes to our channel mix (including, for example, changes in demand for connected TV); changes and uncertainty in the regulatory and business environment for us or customers (for example, when Apple or Google change policies for their browsers and operating system s ); changes in the economic prospects of marketers or the economy generally (due to COVID-19, or otherwise), which could alter marketers spending priorities, or could increase the time or costs required to complete advertising inventory sales; changes in the availability of advertising inventory or in the cost of reaching end consumers through digital advertising; disruptions or outages on our platform; the introduction of new technologies or offerings by our competitors; changes in our capital expenditures as we acquire the hardware, equipment and other assets required to support our business; 20 timing differences between our payments for advertising inventory and our collection of related advertising revenue; the length and unpredictability of our sales cycle; costs related to acquisitions of businesses or technologies, or employee recruiting; and shifting views and behaviors of consumers concerning use of data. Based upon the factors above and others beyond our control, we have a limited ability to forecast our future revenue, costs and expenses, and, as a result, our operating results may, from time to time, fall below our estimates or the expectations of securities analysts and investors. We often have long sales cycles, which can result in significant time between initial contact with a prospect and execution of a customer agreement, making it difficult to project when, if at all, we will obtain new customers and when we will generate revenue from those customers. Our sales cycle, from initial contact to contract execution and implementation, can take significant time. As part of our sales cycle, we may incur significant expenses before we generate any revenue from a prospective customer. We have no assurance that the substantial time and money spent on our sales efforts will generate significant revenue. If conditions in the marketplace, generally or with a specific prospective customer, change negatively, it is possible that we will be unable to recover any of these expenses. Our sales efforts involve educating our customers about the use, technical capabilities and benefits of our platform. Some of our customers undertake an evaluation process that frequently involves not only our platform but also the offerings of our competitors. As a result, it is difficult to predict when we will obtain new customers and begin generating revenue from these new customers. Even if our sales efforts result in obtaining a new customer, the customer controls when and to what extent it uses our platform and therefore the amount of revenue we generate, and it may not sufficiently justify the expenses incurred to acquire the customer and the related training support. As a result, we may not be able to add customers, or generate revenue, as quickly as we may expect, which could harm our growth prospects. Customers have the option to use our platform on a self-service basis, which requires us to commit substantial time and expenses towards training potential customers on how to make full use of our platform. If we fail to offer sufficient customer training and support for our platform, we may not be able to attract new customers or maintain our current customers. Because we operate a platform that has many powerful tools and that customers can choose to use on a self-service basis, we are often required to spend a substantial amount of time and effort educating and training current customers and potential customers on how to make full use of our platform. Because potential customers may already be trained to use our competitors platforms, we are also required to spend a significant amount of time cultivating relationships with those potential customers to ensure they understand the potential benefits of our platform and this relationship building process can take many months and may not result in us winning an opportunity with any given potential customer. As a result, customer training and support is critical for the successful and continued use of our platform and for maintaining and increasing spend through our platform from existing and new customers. Providing this training and support requires that our platform operations personnel have specific domain knowledge and expertise, making it more difficult for us to hire qualified personnel and to scale up our support operations due to the extensive training required. The importance of high-quality customer service will increase as we expand our business and pursue new customers. If we are not responsive and proactive regarding our customers advertising needs, or do not provide effective support for our customers advertising campaigns, our ability to retain our existing customers would suffer and our reputation with existing or potential customers would be harmed, which would negatively impact our business. 21 We are subject to payment-related risks and if our customers do not pay, or dispute their invoices, our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. Many of our contracts with advertising agencies provide that if the marketer does not pay the agency, the agency is not liable to us, and we must seek payment solely from the marketer, a type of arrangement called sequential liability. The credit risk associated with these arrangements may vary depending on the nature of an advertising agencys aggregated marketer base and the credit risk of the agency itself. We may also be involved in disputes with agencies and their marketers over the operation of our platform, the terms of our agreements or our billings for purchases made by them through our platform. When we are unable to collect or make adjustments to our bills to customers, we incur write-offs for bad debt, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the periods in which the write-offs occur. In the future, bad debt may exceed reserves for such contingencies and our bad debt exposure may increase over time. Any increase in write-offs for bad debt could have a materially negative effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, we are generally contractually required to pay suppliers of advertising inventory and data within a negotiated period of time, regardless of whether our customers pay us on time, or at all. While we attempt to negotiate long payment periods with our suppliers and shorter periods from our customers, we are not always successful. As a result, our accounts payable are often due on shorter cycles than our accounts receivables, requiring us to remit payments from our own funds, and accept the risk of bad debt. This payment process will increasingly consume working capital if we continue to be successful in growing our business. In addition, like many companies in our industry, we often experience slow payment by advertising agencies. In this regard, we had average days sales outstanding, or DSO, of 64 days, and average days payable outstanding, or DPO, of 62 for the year ended December 31, 2020. We compute our average DSO as of a given month end based on a weighted average of outstanding accounts receivable. Specifically, the DSO is calculated by multiplying the percentage of accounts receivable outstanding for each monthly billing period by the number of days outstanding related to each billing period and then summing the weighted days outstanding. We compute our DPO as of a given month end by dividing our trade payables (including accrued liabilities) by the average daily cost of media, data, other direct costs and certain operating expenses over the last four months. Historically, our DSOs have fluctuated over time. If our DSOs increase significantly, and we are unable to borrow against these receivables on commercially acceptable terms, our working capital availability could be reduced, and as a consequence our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely impacted. Due to this potential imbalance in our DSOs and DPOs, we may rely on our credit facility to partially or completely fund our working capital requirements. We cannot assure you that as we continue to grow, our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under the credit facility in an amount sufficient to fund our working capital needs. If our cash flows and credit facility borrowings are insufficient to fund our working capital requirements, we may not be able to grow at the rate we currently expect or at all. In addition, in the absence of sufficient cash flows from operations, we might be unable to meet our obligations under our credit facility and we may therefore be at risk of default thereunder. We cannot assure you that we would be able to access additional financing or increase our borrowing or borrowing capacity under our current or any future credit facility on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If our access to advertising inventory is diminished or fails to grow, our revenue could decline and our growth could be impeded. We must maintain a consistent supply of ad inventory. Our success depends on our ability to secure inventory on reasonable terms across a broad range of advertising inventory partners in various verticals and formats. The amount, quality and cost of inventory available to us can change at any time. If our relationships with any of our significant suppliers were to cease, or if the material terms of these relationships were to change unfavorably, our business would be negatively impacted. Our suppliers are generally not bound by long-term contracts. As a result, there is no guarantee that we will have access to a consistent supply of inventory on favorable terms. Inventory suppliers control the sales process for the inventory they supply, and their processes may not always work in our favor. For example, suppliers may place restrictions on the use of their inventory, including prohibiting the placement of advertisements on behalf of specific marketers. 22 As new types of inventory, such as digital advertising for television, become more readily available, we will need to expend significant resources to ensure we have access to such new inventory. Although television advertising is a large market, only a relatively small percentage of it is currently purchased programmatically. We are investing heavily in our programmatic television offering, including by increasing our workforce and by adding new features, functions and integrations to our platform. If the digital television advertising market does not grow as we anticipate or we fail to successfully serve such a market, our growth prospects could be harmed. Our success depends on consistently adding valued inventory in a cost-effective manner. If we are unable to maintain a consistent supply of inventory for any reason, customer retention and loyalty, and our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. If our access to people-based data is diminished, the effectiveness of our platform would be decreased, which could harm our operating results and financial condition. Much of the data that we use is obtained through integrations with third-party data suppliers. We are dependent upon our ability to obtain necessary data licenses on commercially reasonable terms. We could suffer material adverse consequences if we were unable to obtain data through our integrations with data suppliers. Our ability to serve particular customers is also enhanced when such customers upload their own first-party data. Our operation of our platform and access to data could be negatively affected if, due to legal, contractual, privacy, market optics, competition or other economic concerns, third parties cease entering into data integration agreements with us or customers cease uploading their data to our platform. Additionally, we could terminate relationships with our data suppliers if they fail to adhere to our data quality and privacy standards. Furthermore, digital advertising and in-app advertising are largely dependent on established technology companies and their operation of the most commonly used Internet browsers (Chrome, Firefox, Internet Explorer and Safar i ), devices and operating systems (Android and iOS). These companies may change the operations or policies of their browsers, devices and operating systems in a manner that fundamentally changes our ability to operate our platform or use or collect data. Users of these browsers, devices or operating systems may also adjust their behaviors and use of technology in ways that change our ability to collect data. Digital advertising and in-app advertising are also dependent, in part, on internet protocols and the practices of internet service providers, including IP address allocation. Changes that these providers make to their practices, or adoption of new internet protocols, may materially limit or alter the availability of data. A limitation or alteration of the availability of data in any of these or other instances may have a material impact on the advertising technology industry, which could decrease advertising budgets and subsequently reduce our revenue and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. If we were to lose access to significant amounts of the data that enables our people-based framework, our ability to provide products and services to our customers could be materially and adversely impacted, which could be materially adverse to our business, operating results and financial condition. If we do not effectively grow and train our sales and support teams, we may be unable to add new customers or increase usage of our platform by our existing customers and our business will be adversely affected. We are substantially dependent on our sales and support teams to obtain new customers and to increase usage of our platform by our existing customers. We believe that there is significant competition for sales personnel with the skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability to achieve revenue growth will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training, integrating and retaining sufficient numbers of sales personnel to support our growth. Due to the complexity of our platform, a significant time lag exists between the hiring date of sales and support personnel and the time when they become fully productive. Our recent and planned hires may not become productive as quickly as we expect, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the markets where we do business or plan to do business. If we are unable to hire and train sufficient numbers of effective sales personnel, or the sales personnel are not successful in obtaining new customers or increasing our existing customers spend with us, our business will be adversely affected. 23 As our costs increase, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to sustain profitability. We have expended significant resources to grow our business in recent years by increasing the offerings of our platform and growing our number of employees and expanding our number of offices in the United States. We anticipate continued growth that could require substantial financial and other resources to, among other things: develop our platform, including by investing in our engineering team, creating, acquiring or licensing new products or features, and improving the functionality, availability and security of our platform; improve our technology infrastructure, including investing in internal technology development and acquiring outside technologies; cover general and administrative expenses, including legal, accounting and other expenses necessary to support a larger organization; cover sales and marketing expenses, including a significant expansion of our direct sales organization; cover expenses relating to data collection and consumer privacy compliance, including additional infrastructure, automation and personnel; and explore strategic acquisitions. Investing in the foregoing, however, may not yield anticipated returns. Consequently, as our costs increase, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to achieve or sustain profitability. A significant inadvertent disclosure or breach of confidential and/or personal information we hold, or of the security of our or our customers, suppliers, or other partners computer systems could be detrimental to our business, reputation and results of operations. Our business requires the storage, transmission and utilization of data, including personal information, much of which must be maintained on a confidential basis. These activities have made, and may in the future make, us a target of cyber-attacks by third parties seeking unauthorized access to the data we maintain, including our customer data, or to disrupt our ability to provide service. As a result of the types and volume of personal data on our systems, we believe that we are a particularly attractive target for such breaches and attacks. For example, in 2016, we discovered a breach of information from our Myspace databases resulting in the unauthorized access and offer for sale of approximately 360 million Myspace user account email addresses, usernames, and hashed passwords. See We face liabilities arising out of our ownership and operation of Myspace.com . In recent years, the frequency, severity and sophistication of cyber-attacks, computer malware, viruses, social engineering, and other intentional misconduct by computer hackers has significantly increased, and government agencies and security experts have warned about the growing risks of hackers, cyber criminals and other potential attackers targeting information technology systems. Such third parties could attempt to gain entry to our systems for the purpose of stealing data or disrupting the systems. In addition, our security measures may also be breached due to employee error, malfeasance, system errors or vulnerabilities, including vulnerabilities of our vendors, suppliers, their products, or otherwise. Third parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information to gain access to our customers data or our data, including intellectual property and other confidential business information. We currently serve the majority of our platform functions from third-party data center hosting facilities operated by Google Cloud Platform and Amazon Web Services. While we and our third-party cloud providers have implemented security measures designed to protect against security breaches, these measures could fail or may be insufficient, particularly as techniques used to sabotage or obtain unauthorized access to systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, resulting in the unauthorized disclosure, modification, misuse, destruction, or loss of our or our customers data or other sensitive information. Any failure to prevent or mitigate security breaches and improper access to or disclosure of the data we maintain, including personal information, could result in litigation, indemnity obligations, regulatory enforcement actions, investigations, fines, penalties, mitigation and remediation costs, disputes, reputational harm, diversion of managements attention, and other liabilities and damage to our business. 24 We believe we have taken appropriate measures to protect our systems from intrusion, but we cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities, discovery of new vulnerabilities in our systems and attempts to exploit those vulnerabilities, physical system or facility break-ins and data thefts or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology protecting our systems and the information we possess. We may incur significant costs in protecting against or remediating cyber-attacks. Any security breach could result in operational disruptions that impair our ability to meet our customers requirements, which could result in decreased revenue. Also, whether there is an actual or a perceived breach of our security, our reputation could suffer irreparable harm, causing our current and prospective customers to reject our products and services in the future, deterring data suppliers from supplying us data or customers from uploading their data on our platform, or changing consumer behaviors and use of our technology. Further, we could be forced to expend significant resources in response to a security breach, including those expended in notifying individuals and providing mitigating services, repairing system damage, increasing cyber security protection costs by deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, and litigating and resolving legal claims or governmental inquiries and investigations, all of which could divert the attention of our management and key personnel away from our business operations. Federal, state and foreign governments continue to consider and implement laws and regulations addressing data privacy, cybersecurity, and data protection laws, which include provisions relating to breaches. For example, statutory damages may be available to users through a private right of action for certain data breaches under the California Consumer Privacy Act (the CCPA), and potentially other states laws. In any event, a significant security breach could materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. See Risks Related to Data Privacy . Our customers, suppliers and other partners are primarily responsible for the security of their information technology environments, and we rely heavily on them and other third parties to supply clean data content and/or to utilize our products and services in a secure manner. Each of these third parties may face risks relating to cyber security, which could disrupt their businesses and therefore materially impact ours. While we provide guidance and specific requirements in some cases, we do not directly control any of such parties cyber security operations, or the amount of investment they place in guarding against cyber security threats. Accordingly, we are subject to any flaw in or breaches of their systems, which could materially impact our business, operating results and financial results. We allow our customers and suppliers to utilize application programming interfaces, or APIs, with our platform, which could result in outages or security breaches and negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition. The use of application programming interfaces, or APIs, by our customers and suppliers has significantly increased in recent years. Our APIs allow customers and suppliers to build their own media buying and data management interface by using our APIs to develop custom integration of their business with our platform. The increased use of APIs increases security and operational risks to our systems, including the risk for intrusion attacks, data theft, or denial of service attacks. Furthermore, while APIs allow customers and suppliers greater ease and power in accessing our platform, they also increase the risk of overusing our systems, potentially causing outages. We have experienced system slowdowns due to customer or supplier overuse of our systems through our APIs. While we have taken measures intended to decrease security and outage risks associated with the use of APIs, we cannot guarantee that such measures will be successful. Our failure to prevent outages or security breaches resulting from API use could result in government enforcement actions against us, claims for damages by consumers and other affected individuals, costs associated with investigation, notification, mitigation, and remediation, damage to our reputation and loss of goodwill, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Operational and performance issues with our platform, whether real or perceived, including a failure to respond to technological changes or to upgrade our technology systems, may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We depend upon the sustained and uninterrupted performance of our platform to manage our inventory supply; acquire inventory for each campaign; collect, process and interpret data; and optimize campaign performance in real time and provide billing information to our financial systems. If our platform cannot scale to meet demand, if there are errors in our execution of any of these functions on our platform, or if we experience outages, then our business may be harmed. 25 Our platform is complex and multifaceted, and operational and performance issues could arise both from the platform itself or from outside factors, such as cyberattacks or other third party attacks. Errors, failures, vulnerabilities or bugs have been found in the past, and may be found in the future. Our platform also relies on third-party technology and systems to perform properly, and our platform is often used in connection with computing environments utilizing different operating systems, system management software, equipment and networking configurations, which may cause errors in, or failures of, our platform or such other computing environments. Operational and performance issues with our platform could include the failure of our user interface, outages, errors during upgrades or patches, discrepancies in costs billed versus costs paid, unanticipated volume overwhelming our databases, server failure, or catastrophic events affecting one or more server facilities. While we have built redundancies in our systems, full redundancies do not exist. Some failures will shut our platform down completely, others only partially. We provide service level agreements to some of our customers, and if our platform is not available for specified amounts of time, we may be required to provide credits or other financial compensation to our customers. As we grow our business, we expect to continue to invest in technology services and equipment. Without these improvements, our operations might suffer from unanticipated system disruptions, slow transaction processing, unreliable service levels, impaired quality or delays in reporting accurate information regarding transactions in our platform, any of which could negatively affect our reputation and ability to attract and retain customers. In addition, the expansion and improvement of our systems and infrastructure may require us to commit substantial financial, operational and technical resources, with no assurance our business will grow. If we fail to respond to technological change or to adequately maintain, expand, upgrade and develop our systems and infrastructure in a timely fashion, our growth prospects and results of operations could be adversely affected. Operational and performance issues with our platform could also result in negative publicity, damage to our brand and reputation, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our platform, increased costs or loss of revenue, loss of the ability to access our platform, loss of competitive position or claims by customers for losses sustained by them. Alleviating problems resulting from such issues could require significant expenditures of capital and other resources and could cause interruptions, delays or the cessation of our business, any of which may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We are dependent on the continued availability of third-party hosting and transmission services. Operational issues with, or changes to the costs of, our third-party data center providers could harm our business, reputation or results of operations. We currently serve the majority of our platform functions from third-party data center hosting facilities operated by Google Cloud Platform and Amazon Web Services, and we primarily use shared servers in such facilities. We are dependent on these third parties to provide continuous power, cooling, Internet connectivity and physical and technological security for our servers, and our operations depend, in part, on their ability to protect these facilities against any damage or interruption from natural disasters, such as earthquakes and hurricanes, power or telecommunication failures, criminal acts and similar events. In the event that any of our third-party facilities arrangements is terminated, or if there is a lapse of service or damage to a facility, we could experience interruptions in our platform as well as delays and additional expenses in arranging new facilities and services. Any damage to, or failure of, the systems of our third-party providers could result in interruptions to our platform. Despite precautions taken at our data centers, the occurrence of spikes in usage volume, a natural disaster, such as earthquakes or hurricane, an act of terrorism, vandalism or sabotage, a decision to close a facility without adequate notice, or other unanticipated problems at a facility could result in lengthy interruptions in the availability of our platform. Even with current and planned disaster recovery arrangements, our business could be harmed. Also, in the event of damage or interruption, our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that we may incur. These factors in turn could further reduce our revenue, subject us to liability and cause us to issue credits or cause customers to stop using our platfor m , any of which could materially and adversely affect our business. We incur significant costs with our third-party data hosting services. If the costs for such services increase due to vendor consolidation, regulation, contract renegotiation, or otherwise, we may not be able to increase the fees for our products and services to cover the changes. As a result, our operating results may be significantly worse than forecasted. 26 If the non-proprietary technology, software, products and services that we use are unavailable, have future terms we cannot agree to, or do not perform as we expect, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. We depend on various technology, software, products and services from third parties or available as open source, including for critical features and functionality of our platform and API technology, payment processing, payroll and other professional services. Identifying, negotiating, complying with and integrating with third-party terms and technology are complex, costly and time-consuming matters. Failure by third-party providers to maintain, support or secure their technology either generally or for our accounts specifically, or downtime, errors or defects in their products or services, could materially and adversely impact our platform, our administrative obligations or other areas of our business. Having to replace any third-party providers or their technology, products or services could result in outages or difficulties in our ability to provide our services. Our failure to meet content and inventory standards and provide services that our customers and inventory suppliers trust, could harm our brand and reputation and negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition. We do not provide or control the content of the advertisements we serve or that of the websites providing the inventory. Our customers provide the advertising content and inventory suppliers provide the inventory. Both customers and inventory suppliers are concerned about being associated with content they consider inappropriate, competitive or inconsistent with their brands, or illega l , and they are hesitant to spend money without guaranteed brand security. For example, our customers expect that ad placements will not be misrepresented, such as auto-play in banner placements marketed as pre-roll inventory. Consequently, our reputation depends in part on providing services that our customers and inventory suppliers trust, and we have contractual obligations to meet content and inventory standards. We contractually prohibit the misuse of our platform by agencies (and their marketer customers) and inventory suppliers. Additionally, we use our proprietary technology and third-party services to, and we participate in industry co-ops that work to, detect malware and other content issues as well as click fraud (whether by humans or software known as bots) and to block fraudulent inventory. Despite such efforts, our customers may inadvertently purchase inventory that proves to be unacceptable for their campaigns, in which case we may not be able to recoup the amounts paid to inventory suppliers. Preventing and combating fraud is an industry-wide issue that requires constant vigilance, as well as a balancing of cost effectiveness and risk, and we cannot guarantee that we will be fully successful in our efforts to combat fraud. We may provide access to inventory that is objectionable to our customers or we may serve advertising that contains malware or objectionable content to our inventory suppliers, which could harm our or our customers brand and reputation, cause customers to decrease or terminate their relationship with us or otherwise negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition. We face potential liability and harm to our business based on the human factor of inputting information into our platform. We or our customers set up campaigns on our platform using a number of available variables. While our platform includes several checks and balances, it is possible for human error to result in significant over-spending. We offer a number of protections such as daily or overall spending caps, but despite these protections, the ability for overspend exists. For example, campaigns which last for a period of time can be set to pace evenly or as quickly as possible. If a customer with a high credit limit enters an incorrect daily cap with a campaign set to a rapid pace, it is possible for a campaign to accidently go significantly over budget. Our potential liability for such errors may be higher when they occur in situations in which we are executing purchases on behalf of a customer rather than the customer using the self-service feature of our platform. While our customer contracts state that customers are responsible for media purchased through our platform, we are ultimately responsible for paying the inventory providers and we may be unable to collect when such issues occur. 27 We face liabilities arising out of our ownership and operation of Myspace.com. In 2011, we acquired Myspace LLC, which owns Myspace.co m . We have faced and may continue to face claims or lawsuits or incur liability as a result of content published or made available on Myspace.com, including claims for defamation, intellectual property rights, including copyright infringement, rights of publicity and privacy, illegal content, misinformation, content regulation and personal injury torts. The laws relating to the liability of providers of online products or services for activities of the people who use them remain somewhat unsettled, both within the United States and internationally. This risk is enhanced in certain jurisdictions outside the United States where our protection from liability for third-party actions may be unclear or where we may be less protected under local laws than we are in the United States. For example, in April 2019, the European Union passed a directive expanding online platform liability for copyright infringement and regulating certain uses of news content online, which member states must implement by June 2021. In addition, there have been various Congressional efforts, executive actions, and civil litigation efforts to restrict the scope of the protections available to online platforms under Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act, and our current protections from liability for third-party content in the United States could decrease or change. We could incur significant costs investigating and defending claims related to content published or made available on Myspace.com and, if we are found liable, could face significant damages. In 2011, Myspace LLC was the subject of an investigation by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) relating to its privacy practices. In connection with its settlement of this matter with the FTC in 2012, Myspace LLC agreed to a settlement order that bars Myspace LLC from misrepresenting the extent to which it protects the privacy of users personal information or the extent to which it belongs to or complies with any privacy, security or other compliance program. The order also requires that Myspace LLC establish a comprehensive privacy program designed to protect consumers information, and to obtain biennial assessments of its privacy program by independent, third-party auditors for 20 years. The order terminates in August 2032. If Myspace LLC fails to comply with the mandates of the FTC consent order, or if Myspace LLC is found to be in violation of the consent order or other requirements, we may be subject to regulatory or governmental investigations or lawsuits, which may result in significant monetary fines, judgments, or other penalties, and we may also be required to make additional changes to our business practices. Myspace.com has been and may in the future be a source of cybersecurity incidents or data breaches. In 2016, we announced our discovery of a third-party cyber-attack in which Myspace.com usernames, passwords and email addresses were stolen from the old Myspace platform prior to June 11, 2013, when the site was relaunched with significant steps to strengthen account security. While we took steps to remediate the attack, including notifying and invalidating the passwords of known affected users, any further failure to prevent or mitigate security breaches and improper access to or disclosure of the data on the Myspace.com site could result in litigation, indemnity obligations, regulatory enforcement actions, investigations, fines, penalties, mitigation and remediation costs, disputes, reputational harm, diversion of managements attention, and other liabilities and damage to our business. Myspace.com may also face operational or performance issues. For example, as a result of a server migration project in 2019, older photo, video or audio files of some users were lost. Myspace.com has in the past been, and may in the future be, the subject of unfavorable publicity regarding, for example, its privacy practices, site quality and site operational matters. Myspace.com may also face negative publicity relating to content or information that is published or made available on the platform, including defamation, dissemination of misinformation or news hoaxes, discrimination, violations of intellectual property rights, violations of rights of publicity and privacy, hate speech or other types of content. Any such negative publicity could damage our reputation and the reputation of our primary business, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. The market growth forecasts included in this Annual Report may prove to be inaccurate and, even if the market in which we compete achieves forecasted growth, we cannot assure you our business will grow at similar rates, if at all. Market growth forecasts are subject to significant uncertainty and are based on assumptions and estimates which may not prove to be accurate. The forecasts in this Annual Report relating to expected growth in the digital advertising and programmatic ad markets may prove to be inaccurate. Even if these markets experience the forecasted growth, we may not grow our business at similar rates, or at all. Our growth is subject to many factors including our success in implementing our business strategy, which is subject to many risks and uncertainties. 28 Risks Related to Data Privacy Changes in legislative, judicial, regulatory, or cultural environments relating to information collectio n , use and processing may limit our ability to collec t , use and process data. Such developments could cause revenue to decline, increase the cost of data, reduce the availability of data and adversely affect the demand for our products and services. We receive, store and process personal information and other data from and about consumers in addition to personal information and other data from and about our customers, employees, and services providers. Our handling of this data is subject to a wide variety of federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations and is subject to regulation by various government authorities and consumer actions. Our data handling is also subject to contractual obligations and may be deemed to be subject to industry standards. The U.S. federal and various state and foreign governments have adopted or proposed laws relating to the collection, disclosure, processing, use, storage and security of data relating to individuals and households, including the use of contact information and other data for marketing, advertising and other communications with individuals and businesses. In the U.S., various laws and regulations apply to the collection, disclosure, processing, use, storage and security of certain types of data. Additionally, the FTC, many state attorneys general, and many courts are interpreting federal and state consumer protection laws as imposing standards for the collection, disclosure, process, use, storage and security of data. The regulatory framework for data privacy issues worldwide is complex, continually evolving and often conflicting, and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. The occurrence of unanticipated events often rapidly drives the adoption of legislation or regulation affecting the use, collection or other processing of data and manner in which we conduct our business. As a result, further restrictions could be placed upon the collection, disclosure, processing, use, storage and security of information, which could result in a material increase in the cost of obtaining certain kinds of data and could limit the ways in which we may collect, disclose, process, use, store or secure information. U.S. federal and state legislatures, along with federal regulatory authorities, have recently increased their focus on matters concerning the collection and use of consumer data, including relating to interest-based advertising, or the use of data to draw inferences about a users interests and deliver relevant advertising to that user, and similar or related practices, such as cross-device data collection and aggregation, and steps taken to de-identify personal data and to use and distribute the resulting data, including for purposes of personalization and the targeting of advertisements. In the U.S., non-sensitive consumer data generally may be used under current rules and regulations, subject to certain restrictions, including relating to transparency and affirmative opt-out rights of the collection or use of such data in certain instances. To the extent additional opt-out rights are made available in the U.S., additional regulations are imposed, or if an opt-in model were to be adopted, less data would be available, the cost of data and compliance would be higher, or we could be required to modify our data processing practices and policies. For example, California recently enacted legislation, the CCPA, that became operative on January 1, 2020 and came under California Attorney General (AG) enforcement on July 1, 2020. The CCPA requires covered companies to, among other things, provide new disclosures to California consumers and grant such consumers a new right to opt-out of sales of personal information, a concept that is defined broadly. The CCPA is also subject to regulations issued by the California AG, which were finalized and became effective in August 2020. The California Privacy Rights and Enforcement Act (CPRA), which was passed as a ballot initiative in November 2020 and comes into effect on January 1, 2023, expands upon the CCPA and, among other things, creates new categories of personal information with additional protections, creates new data subject rights such as a right of correction, creates a new state rulemaking and enforcement agency for the CPRA, expands potential liability for violations and gives consumers rights to opt out of additional forms of data sharing with third parties. It remains unclear how aspects of the CCPA (as amended by the CPRA) or its implementing regulations will be interpreted. We cannot yet fully predict the impact of these laws on our business or operations, but it or future regulations (particularly any regulations using an opt-in model), could require us or our customers to modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial costs and expenses in an effort to comply. Decreased availability and increased costs of information and costs of compliance could adversely affect our ability to meet our customers expectations and requirements and could result in decreased revenue. 29 While our platform and people-based framework operates primarily in the United States, some of our operations, including our owned website Myspace.com, may subject us to data privacy laws outside the United States. In the European Union (EU), the European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) took effect on May 25, 2018 and applies to our processing related to products and services that we provide to individuals who are in the European Union. The GDPR includes significant penalties for noncompliance of up to the greater of 20 million or 4% of an enterprises global turnover (or revenue) for the preceding fiscal year and each European Union Member State may provide for other penalties applicable to such noncompliance. We are subject to evolving laws and regulations that dictate whether, how, and under what circumstances we, or our data processors, may transfer, process and/or receive certain data, including data shared between countries or regions in which we operate and data shared among our products and services. For example, ongoing legal uncertainty in Europe regarding the transfer of data to the United States could result in further limitations, including in light of the recent Schrems II ruling from the Court of Justice of the European Union dated July 16, 2020. This ruling effectively invalidated the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield framework, and while it upheld the Standard Contractual Clauses (SCCs) as an alternative mechanism, it requires the parties to the SCCs to ensure that the level of protection required by European Union law is respected, potentially by yet-to-be-clarified supplementary measures. Similarly, legal uncertainty could result in further limitations regarding the United Kingdom, which exited the European Union with the transition period ending on December 31, 2020 (transition period for certain matters scheduled to run through December 31, 2020), in particular in relation to data transfers to and from the United Kingdom. However, as part of the European Union and the United Kingdoms new trade deal, the European Union allows personal data to flow freely to the United Kingdom for a duration of six months in total as from January 1, 2021 (known as the bridge), until an adequacy decision has been adopted by the European Commission. In the unlikely event that no such adequacy decision is adopted by the European Commission at the end of the bridge period, we will need to rely on SCCs or other GDPR transfer mechanisms to ensure a lawful transfer of data from the European Economic Area to the United Kingdom. Certain countries outside of the EEA have also passed (e.g. Russia, China) or are considering passing laws requiring local data residency or otherwise impeding the transfer of data across borders. If one or more of the legal bases for transferring data to the U.S. is invalidated, if we are unable to transfer or receive data between and among countries and regions in which we operate, or if we are prohibited from sharing data among our products and services, it could affect the manner in which we provide our services or adversely affect our financial results. Similarly, there are a number of European legislative proposals that could also significantly affect our business. For example, the proposal for a Regulation concerning the respect for private life and the protection of personal data in electronic communications and repealing European Union Directive 2002/58/EC, could impose new obligations or limitations in areas affecting our business, notably with respect to the use of cookies. In addition to government regulation, self-regulatory standards and other industry standards may legally or contractually apply to us or be argued to apply to us, or we may elect to comply with such standards or to facilitate our customers compliance with such standards. Because privacy, data protection, and information security are competitive factors in our industry, we may make statements on our website, in marketing materials, or in other settings about our data security measures and our compliance with, or our ability to facilitate our customers compliance with, these standards. We are members of self-regulatory bodies that impose additional requirements related to the collection, use, and disclosure of consumer data. Under the requirements of these self-regulatory bodies, in addition to other compliance obligations, we are obligated to provide all consumers with notice about our use of cookies and other technologies to execute the collection of consumer data and of our collection and use of consumer data for certain purposes, and to provide consumers with certain choices relating to the use of consumer data. Some of these self-regulatory bodies have the ability to discipline members or participants, which could result in fines, penalties, and/or public censure (which could in turn cause reputational harm). Additionally, some of these self-regulatory bodies might refer violations of their requirements to the Federal Trade Commission or other regulatory bodies. Regulatory investigations and enforcement actions could also impact us. In the U.S., the FTC uses its enforcement powers under Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act (which prohibits unfair and deceptive trade practices) to investigate companies engaging in online tracking and the processing of consumer personal information more generally. This is the basis on which the FTC investigated Myspace LLC. See We face liabilities arising out of our ownership and operation of Myspace.co m . Advocacy organizations have also filed complaints with data protection authorities against advertising technology companies, arguing that certain of these companies practices do not comply with the GDPR. It is possible that investigations or enforcement actions will involve our practices or practices similar to ours. 30 Our legal risk depends in part on our customers or other third parties adherence to privacy laws and regulations and their use of our services in ways consistent with end user expectations. We rely on representations made to us by customers and data suppliers that they will comply with all applicable laws, including all relevant privacy and data protection regulations. Although we make reasonable efforts to enforce such representations and contractual requirements, we do not fully audit our customers or data suppliers compliance with our recommended disclosures or their adherence to privacy laws and regulations. If our customers or data suppliers fail to adhere to our expectations or contracts in this regard, we and our customers or data suppliers could be subject to adverse publicity, damages, and related possible investigation or other regulatory activity. Because the interpretation and application of privacy and data protection laws, regulations and standards are uncertain, it is possible that these laws, regulations and standards may be interpreted and applied in manners that are, or are asserted to be, inconsistent with our data management practices or the technological features of our products and service s . If so, in addition to the possibility of fines, investigations, lawsuits and other claims and proceedings, it may be necessary or desirable for us to fundamentally change our business activities and practices or modify our products and services, which could have an adverse effect on our business. We may be unable to make such changes or modifications in a commercially reasonable manner or at all. Any inability to adequately address privacy concerns, even if unfounded, or any actual or perceived failure to comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws, regulations, standards or policies, could result in additional cost and liability to us, damage our reputation, inhibit sales and harm our business. Furthermore, the costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, the laws, regulations, standards and policies that are applicable to the businesses of our customers may limit the use and adoption of, and reduce the overall demand for, our platform. Privacy concerns, whether valid or not valid, may inhibit market adoption of our platform particularly in certain industries and foreign countries. Adapting our business to the CCPA and its implementing regulations and to the enhanced and evolving privacy obligations in the EU and elsewhere could continue to involve substantial expense and may cause us to divert resources from other aspects of our operations, all of which may adversely affect our business. Further, adaptation of the digital advertising marketplace requires increasingly significant collaboration between participants in the market, such as publishers and marketers. Failure of the industry to adapt to changes required for operating under laws including the CCPA and the GDPR and user response to such changes could negatively impact inventory, data, and demand. We cannot control or predict the pace or effectiveness of such adaptation, and we cannot currently predict the impact such changes may have on our business. Our business or ability to operate our platform could be impacted by changes in the technology industry by established technology companies or government regulation. Such developments, including the restriction of third-party cookies, could cause instability in the advertising technology industry. Digital advertising and in-app advertising are largely dependent on established technology companies and their operation of the most commonly used Internet browsers (Chrome, Firefox, Internet Explorer and Safar i ), devices and their operating systems (Android and iOS). These companies may change the operations or policies of their browsers, devices and operating systems in a manner that fundamentally changes our ability to operate our platform or collect data. Users of these browsers, devices or operating systems may also adjust their behaviors and use of technology in ways that change our ability to collect data. Digital advertising and in-app advertising are also dependent, in part, on internet protocols and the practices of internet service providers, including IP address allocation. Changes that these providers make to their practices, or adoption of new internet protocols, may materially limit or alter the availability of data. A limitation or alteration of the availability of data in any of these or other instances may have a material impact on the advertising technology industry, which could decrease advertising budgets and subsequently reduce our revenue and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 31 For example, browser providers have recently enacted changes restricting the use of third-party cookies in their browsers, which may cause instability in the digital advertising market. Execution of digital advertising relies to a significant extent on the use of cookies, pixels and other similar technology, including mobile device identifiers that are provided by mobile operating systems for advertising purposes, which we refer to collectively as cookies, to collect data about users and devices. Although our business is less reliant on cookies than some of our competitors because we do not need cookies for marketers and their advertising agencies to identify consumers with our identity resolution capabilities and identity graph, we do use third-party cookies. Third-party cookies are cookies owned and used by parties other than the owners of the website visited by the Internet user, in connection with our business for execution of obtaining information about consumers, and for delivering digital advertisin g . In January 2020, Google publicly stated it intends for Chrome to block third-party cookies at some point in the following 24 months. Google has also introduced ad blocking software in its Chrome web browser that will block certain ads based on quality standards established under a multi-stakeholder coalition. Additionally, the Safari browser currently blocks third-party cookies by default and has recently added controls that algorithmically block or limit some cookies. Other browsers have added similar controls. These actions will have significant impacts on the digital advertising and marketing ecosystems in which we operate, which could cause changes in advertising budget allocations and thereby could negatively impact our business. For in-app advertising, data regarding interactions between users and devices are tracked mostly through stable, pseudonymous mobile device identifiers that are built into the device operating system with privacy controls that allow users to express a preference with respect to data collection for advertising, including to disable the identifier. These identifiers and privacy controls are defined by the developers of the mobile platforms and could be changed by the mobile platforms in a way that may negatively impact our business. Privacy aspects of other channels for programmatic advertising, such as connected TVs or over-the-top video, are still developing. Technical or policy changes, including regulation or industry self-regulation, could harm our growth in those channels. Digital advertising is also subject to government regulation which may impact our ability to collect and use data. As the collection and use of data for digital advertising has received ongoing media attention over the past several years, some government regulators, such as the FTC, and privacy advocates have raised significant concerns around observed data. There has been an array of do-not-track efforts, suggestions and technologies introduced to address these concerns. However, the potential regulatory and self-regulatory landscape is inherently uncertain, and there is no consensus definition of tracking, nor agreement on what would be covered by do-not-track functionality. There is activity by the major Internet browsers to default set on do-not-track functionality, including by Safari and Firefox. It is not clear if other Internet browsers will follow. Limitations on our or our customers ability to collect and use data for advertising, whether imposed by established technology companies or U.S. legislation, or otherwise, may impact the performance of our platform. Uncertainty caused by lack of uniformity among laws to which we are or may become subject and instability in the global legal landscape may cause us to incur additional or unexpected costs and legal risk, increase our risk of reputational harm, or cause us to change our platform or business model. We cannot predict the future of the regulatory landscape regarding the protection of personal information. U.S. (state and federal) and foreign governments are considering enacting additional legislation related to privacy and data protection and we expect to see an increase in, or changes to, legislation and regulation in this area. For example, in the U.S., a federal privacy law is the subject of active discussion and several bills have been introduced. Additionally, industry groups in the U.S. and their international counterparts have self-regulatory guidelines that are subject to periodic updates to which we have agreed to adhere. High profile incidents involving breaches of personal information or misuse of consumer information may increase the likelihood of new U.S. federal, state, or international laws or regulations in addition to those set out above, and such laws and regulations may be inconsistent across jurisdictions. 32 In addition to laws regulating the processing of personal information, we are also subject to regulation with respect to political advertising activities, which are governed by various federal and state laws in the U.S., and national and provincial laws worldwide. Online political advertising laws are rapidly evolving, and in certain jurisdictions have varying transparency and disclosure requirements. We have already seen publishers impose varying prohibitions and restrictions on the types of political advertising and breadth of targeted advertising allowed on their platforms with respect to advertisements for the 2020 U.S. presidential election in response to political advertising scandals in prior election cycles. The lack of uniformity and increasing requirements on transparency and disclosure could adversely impact the inventory made available for political advertising and the demand for such inventory on our platform, and otherwise increase our operating and compliance costs. Concerns about political advertising, whether or not valid and whether or not driven by applicable laws and regulations, industry standards, customer or inventory provider expectations, or public perception, may harm our reputation, result in loss of goodwill, and inhibit use of our platform by current and future customers. Additionally, as the advertising industry evolves, and new ways of collecting, combining and using data are created, governments may enact legislation in response to technological advancements and changes that could result in our having to re-design features or functions of our platform, therefore incurring unexpected compliance costs. These laws and other obligations may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our existing data management practices or the features of our platform. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines, lawsuits and other claims, we could be required to fundamentally change our business activities and practices or modify our products, which could have an adverse effect on our business. We may be unable to make such changes and modifications in a commercially reasonable manner or at all, and our ability to develop new products and features could be limited. All of this could impair our or our customers ability to collect, use, or disclose information relating to consumers, which could decrease demand for our platform, increase our costs, and impair our ability to maintain and grow our customer base and increase our revenue. Commitments to advertising technology industry self-regulation may subject us to investigation by government or self-regulatory bodies, government or private litigation, and operational costs or harm to reputation or brand. In addition to our legal obligations, we have committed to comply, and generally require our customers and partners to comply, with applicable self-regulatory principles, such as the Network Advertising Initiatives Code of Conduct and the Digital Advertising Alliances Self-Regulatory Principles for Online Behavioral Advertising in the U.S., and similar self-regulatory principles in Europe and Canada adopted by the local Digital Advertising Alliance. Trade associations and industry self-regulatory groups have also promulgated best practices and other industry standards relating to targeted advertising. Our efforts to comply with these self-regulatory principles include offering Internet users notice and choice when advertising is served to them based, in part, on their interests. If we or our customers or partners make mistakes in the implementation of these principles, or if self-regulatory bodies expand these guidelines or government authorities issue different guidelines regarding Internet-based advertising, or opt out mechanisms fail to work as designed, or if Internet users misunderstand our technology or our commitments with respect to these principles, we may, as a result, be subject to negative publicity, government investigation, government or private litigation, or investigation by self-regulatory bodies or other accountability groups. Any such action against us, or investigations, even if meritless, could be costly and time consuming, require us to change our business practices, cause us to divert managements attention and our resources, and be damaging to our brand, reputation, and business. In addition, privacy advocates and industry groups may propose new and different self-regulatory standards that either legally or contractually apply to us. We cannot yet determine the impact such future standards may have on our business. 33 Unfavorable publicity and negative public perception about our industry, particularly concerns regarding data privacy and security relating to our industrys technology and practices, and perceived failure to comply with laws and industry self-regulation, could adversely affect our business and operating results. With the growth of digital advertising and e-commerce, there is increasing awareness and concern among the general public, privacy advocates, mainstream media, governmental bodies and others regarding marketing, advertising, and data privacy matters, particularly as they relate to individual privacy interests and the global reach of the online marketplace. Concerns about industry practices with regard to the collection, use, and disclosure of personal information, whether or not valid and whether driven by applicable laws and regulations, industry standards, customer or inventory provider expectations, or the broader public, may harm our reputation, result in loss of goodwill, and inhibit use of our platform by current and future customers. Any unfavorable publicity or negative public perception about us, our industry, including our competitors, or even other data focused industries can affect our business and results of operations, and may lead to digital publishers or our customers changing their business practices or additional regulatory scrutiny or lawmaking that affects us or our industry. For example, in recent years, consumer advocates, mainstream media and elected officials have increasingly and publicly criticized the data and marketing industry for its collection, storage and use of personal data. Additional public scrutiny may lead to general distrust of our industry, consumer reluctance to share and permit use of personal data, increased consumer opt-out rates or increased private class actions, any of which could negatively influence, change or reduce our current and prospective customers demand for our products and services, subject us to liability and adversely affect our business and operating results. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Our proprietary rights may be difficult to enforce, which could enable others to copy or use aspects of our technology without compensating us, thereby eroding our competitive advantages and harming our business. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect proprietary methods and technologies that we develop or otherwise acquire, so that we can prevent others from using our inventions and proprietary information. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors might gain access to our technology and our business might be adversely affected. We rely upon a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as third-party confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Establishing trade secret, copyright, trademark, domain name, and patent protection can be difficult and expensive, and the laws, procedures and restrictions may provide only limited protection. It may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy or reverse engineer aspects of our technology or otherwise obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary, or to develop technologies similar or superior to our technology or design around our proprietary rights, despite the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights. Our contracts with our employees and contractors that relate to intellectual property issues generally restrict the use of our confidential information solely in connection with our services. However, the theft or misuse of our proprietary information could occur by employees or contractors who have access to our technology. While we have issued patents and patent applications pending, we may be unable to obtain patent protection for the technology covered in our patent applications or such patent protection may not be obtained quickly enough to meet our business needs. Furthermore, the patent prosecution process is expensive, time-consuming, and complex, and we may not be able to prepare, file, prosecute, maintain, and enforce all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. The scope of patent protection also can be reinterpreted after issuance and issued patents may be invalidated. Even if our patent applications do issue as patents, they may not issue in a form that is sufficiently broad to protect our technology, prevent competitors or other third parties from competing with us or otherwise provide us with any competitive advantage. Policing unauthorized use of our technology is difficult. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those of the United States, and mechanisms for enforcement of our proprietary rights in such countries may be inadequate. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights (including in particular, the proprietary aspects of our platform) we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who have not incurred the same level of expense, time and effort to create and protect their intellectual property. 34 We are subject to third party claims for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights, which would result in additional expense and potential damages. There is significant patent and other intellectual property development activity in the digital advertising industry. Third-party intellectual property rights may cover significant aspects of our technologies or business methods or block us from expanding our offerings. Our success depends on the continual development of our platform. From time to time, we receive claims from third parties that our platform and underlying technology infringe or violate such third parties intellectual property rights. To the extent we gain greater public recognition, we may face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property claims. The cost of defending against such claims, whether or not the claims have merit, is significant, regardless of whether we are successful in our defense, and could divert the attention of management, technical personnel and other employees from our business operations. Litigation regarding intellectual property rights is inherently uncertain due to the complex issues involved, and we may not be successful in defending ourselves in such matters. Additionally, we may be obligated to indemnify our customers or inventory and data suppliers in connection with any such litigation. If we are found to infringe these rights, we could potentially be required to cease utilizing portions of our platform. We may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant time and expense. Alternatively, we could be required to pay royalty payments, either as a one-time fee or ongoing, as well as damages for past use that was deemed to be infringing. If we cannot license or develop technology for any allegedly infringing aspect of our business, we would be forced to limit our service and may be unable to compete effectively. Any of these results could harm our business. We face potential liability and harm to our business based on the nature of our business and the content on our platform. Advertising often results in litigation relating to copyright or trademark infringement, public performance royalties or other claims based on the nature and content of advertising that is distributed through our platform. Though we contractually require agencies to represent to us that they have the rights necessary to serve advertisements through our platform, we do not independently verify whether we are permitted to deliver, or review the content of, such advertisements. If any of these representations are untrue, we may be exposed to potential liability and our reputation may be damaged. While our customers are typically obligated to indemnify us, such indemnification may not fully cover us, or we may not be able to collect. In addition to settlement costs, we may be responsible for our own litigation costs, which can be extensive. Risks Relating to Governmental Regulation and Tax Matters Our business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations, many of which are evolving, and failure to comply with such laws and regulations could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our business is subject to regulation by various federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies, including agencies responsible for monitoring and enforcing employment and labor laws, consumer protection laws, anti-bribery laws, import and export controls, federal securities laws, and tax laws and regulations. These laws and regulations impose added costs on our business and could require us to make changes to our business or platform. Noncompliance with applicable regulations or requirements could subject us to investigations, enforcement actions, sanctions, fines, damages, penalties, injunctions or termination of contracts. Any such matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 35 Viant Technology Inc. depend s on distributions from Viant Technology LLC to pay any dividends, if declared, taxes and other expenses, including payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement. Viant Technology Inc. is a holding company and its only business is to act as the managing member of Viant Technology LLC, and its only material assets are Class A units representing approximately 19.5% of the membership interests of Viant Technology LLC. Viant Technology Inc. does not have any independent means of generating revenue. We anticipate that Viant Technology LLC will continue to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes and, as such, generally will not be subject to any entity-level U.S. federal income tax. Instead, taxable income will be allocated to the members of Viant Technology LLC. Accordingly, Viant Technology Inc. is required to pay income taxes on its allocable share of any net taxable income of Viant Technology LLC. We cause Viant Technology LLC to make distributions to each of its members, including Viant Technology Inc., in an amount intended to enable each member to pay all applicable taxes on taxable income allocable to such member and to allow Viant Technology Inc. to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement. In addition, Viant Technology LLC reimburses Viant Technology Inc. for corporate and other overhead expenses. If the amount of tax distributions to be made exceeds the amount of funds available for distribution, Viant Technology Inc. shall receive the full amount of its tax distribution before the other members receive any distribution and the balance, if any, of funds available for distribution shall be distributed to the other members pro rata in accordance with their assumed tax liabilities. To the extent that Viant Technology Inc. needs funds, and Viant Technology LLC is restricted from making such distributions under applicable laws or regulations, or is otherwise unable to provide such funds, it could materially and adversely affect Viant Technology Inc.s ability to pay dividends and taxes and other expenses, including payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement, and affect our liquidity and financial condition. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) might challenge the tax basis step-ups and other tax benefits we received in connection with our IPO and the related transactions and in connection with future acquisitions of Viant Technology LLC units. The Viant Technology LLC units held directly by the members of Viant Technology LLC other than Viant Technology Inc., including the Vanderhook Parties , may in the future be exchanged for shares of our Class A common stock or, at our election, cash. Those exchanges may result in increases in the tax basis of the assets of Viant Technology LLC that otherwise would not have been available. These increases in tax basis are expected to increase (for tax purposes) Viant Technology Inc.s depreciation and amortization and, together with other tax benefits, reduce the amount of tax that Viant Technology Inc. would otherwise be required to pay, although it is possible that the IRS might challenge all or part of these tax basis increases or other tax benefits, and a court might sustain such a challenge. Viant Technology Inc.s ability to achieve benefits from any tax basis increases or other tax benefits will depend upon a number of factors, as discussed below, including the timing and amount of our future income. We will not be reimbursed for any payments previously made under the Tax Receivable Agreement if the basis increases or other tax benefits described above are successfully challenged by the IRS or another taxing authority. As a result, in certain circumstances, payments could be made under the Tax Receivable Agreement in excess of our ultimate cash tax savings. Viant Technology Inc. is required to pay over to continuing members of Viant Technology LLC most of the tax benefits Viant Technology Inc. receives from tax basis step-ups (and certain other tax benefits) attributable to its acquisition of units of Viant Technology LLC, and the amount of those payments are expected to be substantial. Viant Technology Inc. has entered into a Tax Receivable Agreement with Viant Technology LLC, continuing members of Viant Technology LLC (not including Viant Technology Inc.) and the representative of such continuing members of Viant Technology LLC (the TRA Representative ) . The Tax Receivable Agreement provides for payment by Viant Technology Inc. to continuing members of Viant Technology LLC (not including Viant Technology Inc.) of 85% of the amount of the net cash tax savings, if any, that Viant Technology Inc. realizes (or, under certain circumstances, is deemed to realize) as a result of increases in tax basis (and utilization of certain other tax benefits) resulting from (i) Viant Technology Inc.s acquisition of Viant Technology LLC units from pre-IPO members of Viant Technology LLC in connection with the IPO and in future exchanges and (ii) any payments Viant Technology Inc. makes under the Tax Receivable Agreement (including tax benefits related to imputed interest). Viant Technology Inc. will retain the benefit of the remaining 15% of these net cash tax savings. 36 Th e ter m o f th e Ta x Receivabl e Agreemen t will continu e unti l al l ta x benefit s tha t ar e subjec t t o th e Ta x Receivabl e Agreemen t hav e bee n utilize d o r hav e expired, unles s w e exercis e ou r righ t t o terminat e th e Ta x Receivabl e Agreemen t (o r i t i s terminate d du e t o a chang e in contro l o r ou r breac h o f a materia l obligatio n thereunder) , i n whic h case , Vian t Technolog y Inc . wil l b e require d t o mak e th e terminatio n paymen t specifie d i n th e Ta x Receivabl e Agreement . I n addition , payment s w e mak e under th e Ta x Receivabl e Agreemen t wil l b e increase d b y an y interes t accrue d fro m th e du e dat e (withou t extensions ) o f th e correspondin g ta x return . Th e actual futur e payment s t o th e continuin g member s o f Vian t Technolog y LL C wil l var y base d o n th e factor s discussed below , an d estimatin g th e amoun t an d timin g o f payment s tha t ma y b e mad e unde r th e Ta x Receivabl e Agreement i s b y it s natur e imprecise , a s th e calculatio n o f amount s payabl e depend s o n a variet y o f factor s an d futur e events. W e expec t t o receiv e distribution s fro m Vian t Technolog y LL C i n orde r t o mak e an y require d payment s unde r the Ta x Receivabl e Agreement . However , w e ma y nee d t o incu r deb t t o financ e payment s unde r th e Ta x Receivable Agreemen t t o th e exten t suc h distribution s o r ou r cas h resource s ar e insufficien t t o mee t ou r obligation s unde r the Ta x Receivabl e Agreemen t a s a resul t o f timin g discrepancie s o r otherwise. The actual increase in tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement, will vary depending on a number of factors, including the price of our Class A common stock at the time of the exchange; the timing of future exchanges; the extent to which exchanges are taxable; the amount and timing of the utilization of tax attributes; the amount, timing and character of Viant Technology Inc.s income; the U.S. federal, state and local tax rates then applicable; the amount of each exchanging unitholders tax basis in its units at the time of the relevant exchange; the depreciation and amortization periods that apply to the increases in tax basis; the timing and amount of any earlier payments that Viant Technology Inc. may have made under the Tax Receivable Agreement and the portion of Viant Technology Inc.s payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement that constitute imputed interest or give rise to depreciable or amortizable tax basis. We expect that, as a result of the increases in the tax basis of the tangible and intangible assets of Viant Technology LLC attributable to the exchanged Viant Technology LLC interests, and certain other tax benefits, the payments that Viant Technology Inc. will be required to make to the holders of rights under the Tax Receivable Agreement will be substantial. There may be a material negative effect on our financial condition and liquidity if, as described below, the payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement exceed the actual benefits Viant Technology Inc. receives in respect of the tax attributes subject to the Tax Receivable Agreement and/or distributions to Viant Technology Inc. by Viant Technology LLC are not sufficient to permit Viant Technology Inc. to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement. 37 In certain circumstances, payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement may be accelerated and/or significantly exceed the actual tax benefits, if any, that Viant Technology Inc. actually realizes. The Tax Receivable Agreement provides that if (i) Viant Technology Inc. exercises its right to early termination of the Tax Receivable Agreement in whole (that is, with respect to all benefits due to all beneficiaries under the Tax Receivable Agreement) or in part (that is, with respect to some benefits due to all beneficiaries under the Tax Receivable Agreement), (ii) Viant Technology Inc. experiences certain changes in control, (iii) the Tax Receivable Agreement is rejected in certain bankruptcy proceedings, (iv) Viant Technology Inc. fails (subject to certain exceptions) to make a payment under the Tax Receivable Agreement within 180 days after the due date or (v) Viant Technology Inc. materially breaches its obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement, Viant Technology Inc. will be obligated to make an early termination payment to holders of rights under the Tax Receivable Agreement equal to the present value of all payments that would be required to be paid by Viant Technology Inc. under the Tax Receivable Agreement. The amount of such payments will be determined on the basis of certain assumptions in the Tax Receivable Agreement, including (i) the assumption that Viant Technology Inc. would have enough taxable income in the future to fully utilize the tax benefit resulting from the tax assets that are the subject of the Tax Receivable Agreement, (ii) the assumption that any item of loss deduction or credit generated by a basis adjustment or imputed interest arising in a taxable year preceding the taxable year that includes an early termination will be used by Viant Technology Inc. ratably from such taxable year through the earlier of (x) the scheduled expiration of such tax item or (y) 15 years; (iii) the assumption that any non-amortizable assets are deemed to be disposed of in a fully taxable transaction on the fifteenth anniversary of the earlier of the basis adjustment and the early termination date; (iv) the assumption that U.S. federal, state and local tax rates will be the same as in effect on the early termination date, unless scheduled to change; and (v) the assumption that any units of Viant Technology LLC (other than those held by Viant Technology Inc.) outstanding on the termination date are deemed to be exchanged for an amount equal to the market value of the corresponding number of shares of Class A common stock on the termination date. Any early termination payment may be made significantly in advance of the actual realization, if any, of the future tax benefits to which the termination payment relates. The amount of the early termination payment is determined by discounting the present value of all payments that would be required to be paid by Viant Technology Inc. under the Tax Receivable Agreement at a rate equal to the lesser of (a) 6.5% and (b) the Secured Overnight Financing Rate, as reported by the Wall Street Journal (SOFR) plus 400 basis points. Moreover, as a result of an elective early termination, a change in control or Viant Technology Inc.s material breach of its obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement, Viant Technology Inc. could be required to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement that exceed its actual cash savings under the Tax Receivable Agreement. Thus, Viant Technology Inc.s obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement could have a substantial negative effect on its financial condition and liquidity and could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing certain mergers, asset sales, or other forms of business combinations or changes of control. We cannot assure you that we will be able to finance any early termination payment. It is also possible that the actual benefits ultimately realized by us may be significantly less than were projected in the computation of the early termination payment. We will not be reimbursed if the actual benefits ultimately realized by us are less than were projected in the computation of the early termination payment. Payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement will be based on the tax reporting positions that we will determine and the IRS or another tax authority may challenge all or part of the tax basis increases, as well as other related tax positions we take, and a court could sustain such challenge. If any tax benefits that have given rise to payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement are subsequently disallowed, Viant Technology Inc. would be entitled to reduce future amounts otherwise payable to a holder of rights under the Tax Receivable Agreement to the extent the holder has received excess payments. However, the required final and binding determination that a holder of rights under the Tax Receivable Agreement has received excess payments may not be made for a number of years following commencement of any challenge, and Viant Technology Inc. will not be permitted to reduce its payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement until there has been a final and binding determination, by which time sufficient subsequent payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement may not be available to offset prior payments for disallowed benefits. Viant Technology Inc. will not be reimbursed for any payments previously made under the Tax Receivable Agreement if the basis increases described above are successfully challenged by the IRS or another taxing authority. As a result, in certain circumstances, payments could be made under the Tax Receivable Agreement that are significantly in excess of the benefit that Viant Technology Inc. actually realizes in respect of the increases in tax basis (and utilization of certain other tax benefits) and Viant Technology Inc. may not be able to recoup those payments, which could adversely affect Viant Technology Inc.s financial condition and liquidity. 38 In certain circumstances, Viant Technology LLC will be required to make distributions to us and the existing members of Viant Technology LLC, and the distributions that Viant Technology LLC will be required to make may be substantial. Viant Technology LLC is expected to continue to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes and, as such, is not subject to U.S. federal income tax. Instead, taxable income is allocated to members, including Viant Technology Inc. Pursuant to the Viant Technology LLC Operating Agreement, Viant Technology LLC makes tax distributions to its members, including Viant Technology Inc., which generally are pro rata based on the ownership of Viant Technology LLC units, calculated using an assumed tax rate, to help each of the members to pay taxes on that members allocable share of Viant Technology LLCs net taxable income. Under applicable tax rules, Viant Technology LLC is required to allocate net taxable income disproportionately to its members in certain circumstances. Because tax distributions are determined based on the member who is allocated the largest amount of taxable income on a per unit basis and on an assumed tax rate that is the highest possible rate applicable to any member, but are made pro rata based on ownership of Viant Technology LLC units, Viant Technology LLC is required to make tax distributions that, in the aggregate, likely exceed the aggregate amount of taxes payable by its members with respect to the allocation of Viant Technology LLC income. Funds used by Viant Technology LLC to satisfy its tax distribution obligations are not available for reinvestment in our business. Moreover, the tax distributions Viant Technology LLC is required to make may be substantial, and may significantly exceed (as a percentage of Viant Technology LLCs income) the overall effective tax rate applicable to a similarly situated corporate taxpayer. In addition, because these payments are calculated with reference to an assumed tax rate, and because of the disproportionate allocation of net taxable income, these payments likely significantly exceed the actual tax liability for many of the existing members of Viant Technology LLC. As a result of potential differences in the amount of net taxable income allocable to us and to the existing members of Viant Technology LLC, as well as the use of an assumed tax rate in calculating Viant Technology LLCs distribution obligations, we may receive distributions significantly in excess of our tax liabilities and obligations to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement. We may choose to manage these excess distributions through a number of different approaches, including by applying them to general corporate purposes. Pursuant to recent regulations issued under Section 162(m) of the Code, Viant Technology Inc. may not be permitted to deduct its distributive share of compensation expense to the extent that the compensation was paid by Viant Technology LLC to certain of Viant Technology Inc.s covered employees, potentially resulting in additional U.S. federal income tax liability for Viant Technology Inc. and reducing cash available for distribution to Viant Technology Inc.s stockholders and/or for the payment of other expenses and obligations of Viant Technology Inc. Section 162(m) of the Code disallows the deduction by any publicly held corporation of applicable employee compensation paid with respect to any covered employee to the extent that such compensation for the taxable year exceeds $1,000,000. A covered employee means any employee of the taxpayer if the employee (a) is the principal executive officer (PEO) or principal financial officer (PFO) of the taxpayer at any time during the taxable year, or was an individual acting in such a capacity, (b) was among the three highest compensated executive officers for the taxable year (other than the PEO or PFO or an individual acting in such capacity), or (c) was a covered employee of the taxpayer (or any predecessor) for any preceding taxable year beginning after December 31, 2016. Pursuant to final regulations released for publication in the Federal Register by the IRS and the United States Department of the Treasury on December 30, 2020 (the 162(m) Regulations), Viant Technology Inc. will not be permitted to claim a deduction for the distributive share of compensation expense of Viant Technology LLC allocated to it to the extent that such distributive share, plus the amount of any compensation paid directly by Viant Technology Inc., exceeds $1,000,000 with respect to a covered employee, even if Viant Technology LLC, rather than Viant Technology Inc., pays the compensation. The 162(m) Regulations were effective upon publication of final regulations in the Federal Register but apply to any deduction for compensation that is otherwise allowable for a taxable year ending on or after December 20, 2019. However, the 162(m) Regulations do not apply to compensation paid pursuant to a written binding contract in effect on December 20, 2019 that is not materially modified after that date. Accordingly, to the extent that Viant Technology Inc. is disallowed a deduction for its distributive share of compensation expense under Section 162(m) of the Code, it may result in additional U.S. federal income tax liability for Viant Technology Inc. and/or reduce cash available for distribution to Viant Technology Inc.s stockholders or for the payment of other expenses and obligations of Viant Technology Inc. 39 Future changes to tax laws or our effective tax rate could materially and adversely affect our company and reduce net returns to our stockholders. Our tax treatment is subject to the enactment of, or changes in, tax laws, regulations and treaties, or the interpretation thereof, tax policy initiatives and reforms under consideration and the practices of tax authorities in various jurisdiction s , including those related to the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Project of the Organisation for Economic Co-Operation and Development (OECD), the European Commissions state aid investigations and other initiatives. Such changes may include (but are not limited to) the taxation of operating income, investment income, dividends received or (in the specific context of withholding tax) dividends paid, or the taxation of partnerships and other passthrough entities. In addition, the Group of Twenty, the OECD, the U.S. Congress and Treasury Department and other government agencies in jurisdictions where we and our affiliates do business have focused on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations, including, but not limited to, transfer pricing, country-by-country reporting and base erosion. As a result, the tax laws in the United States and in jurisdictions which we do business could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such changes could have an adverse effect on our worldwide tax liabilities, business, financial condition and results of operations. We are unable to predict what tax reform may be proposed or enacted in the future or what effect such changes would have on our business, but such changes, to the extent they are brought into tax legislation, regulations, policies or practices, could affect our financial position and overall or effective tax rates in the future in countries where we have operations, reduce post-tax returns to our stockholders, and increase the complexity, burden and cost of tax compliance. Our businesses are subject to income taxation in the United States. Tax rates may be subject to significant change. If our effective tax rate increases, our operating results and cash flow could be adversely affected. Our effective income tax rate can vary significantly between periods due to a number of complex factors including, but not limited to, projected levels of taxable income in each jurisdiction, tax audits conducted and settled by various tax authorities, and adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of income tax returns. We may be required to pay additional taxes because of the U.S. federal partnership audit rules and potentially also state and local tax rules. Under the U.S. federal partnership audit rules, subject to certain exceptions, audit adjustments to items of income, gain, loss, deduction, or credit of an entity (and any holders share thereof) is determined, and taxes, interest, and penalties attributable thereto, are assessed and collected, at the entity level. Viant Technology LLC (or any of its applicable subsidiaries or other entities in which Viant Technology LLC directly or indirectly invests that are treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes) may be required to pay additional taxes, interest and penalties as a result of an audit adjustment, and Viant Technology Inc., as a member of Viant Technology LLC (or such other entities), could be required to indirectly bear the economic burden of those taxes, interest, and penalties even though we may not otherwise have been required to pay additional corporate-level taxes as a result of the related audit adjustment. Audit adjustments for state or local tax purposes could similarly result in Viant Technology LLC (or any of its applicable subsidiaries or other entities in which Viant Technology LLC directly or indirectly invests) being required to pay or indirectly bear the economic burden of state or local taxes and associated interest, and penalties. Under certain circumstances, Viant Technology LLC or an entity in which Viant Technology LLC directly or indirectly invests may be eligible to make an election to cause members of Viant Technology LLC (or such other entity) to take into account the amount of any understatement, including any interest and penalties, in accordance with such members share in Viant Technology LLC in the year under audit. We will decide whether or not to cause Viant Technology LLC to make this election; however, there are circumstances in which the election may not be available and, in the case of an entity in which Viant Technology LLC directly or indirectly invests, such decision may be outside of our control. If Viant Technology LLC or an entity in which Viant Technology LLC directly or indirectly invests does not make this election, the then-current members of Viant Technology LLC (including Viant Technology Inc.) could economically bear the burden of the understatement. 40 If Viant Technology LLC were to become a publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, Viant Technology Inc. and Viant Technology LLC might be subject to potentially significant tax inefficiencies, and Viant Technology Inc. would not be able to recover payments previously made by it under the Tax Receivable Agreement, even if the corresponding tax benefits were subsequently determined to have been unavailable due to such status. We intend to operate such that Viant Technology LLC does not become a publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A publicly traded partnership is an entity that otherwise would be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the interests of which are traded on an established securities market or readily tradable on a secondary market or the substantial equivalent thereof. Under certain circumstances, exchanges of Viant Technology LLC units pursuant to the Viant Technology LLC Operating Agreement or other transfers of Viant Technology LLC units could cause Viant Technology LLC to be treated like a publicly traded partnership. From time to time the U.S. Congress has considered legislation to change the tax treatment of partnerships and there can be no assurance that any such legislation will not be enacted or if enacted will not be adverse to us. If Viant Technology LLC were to become a publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, significant tax inefficiencies might result for Viant Technology Inc. and Viant Technology LLC, including as a result of Viant Technology Inc.s inability to file a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return with Viant Technology LLC. In addition, Viant Technology Inc. may not be able to realize tax benefits covered under the Tax Receivable Agreement and would not be able to recover any payments previously made by it under the Tax Receivable Agreement, even if the corresponding tax benefits (including any claimed increase in the tax basis of Viant Technology LLCs assets) were subsequently determined to have been unavailable. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The market price of our Class A common stock has been and may continue to be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The market price of equity securities of technology companies has historically experienced high levels of volatility. The market price of our Class A common stock has been and may continue to fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance, including: announcements of new offerings, products, services or technologies, commercial relationships, acquisitions or other events by us or our competitors; price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of technology companies in general and of companies in the digital advertising industry in particular; fluctuations in the trading volume of our shares or the size of our public float; actual or anticipated changes or fluctuations in our operating results; whether our operating results meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors; actual or anticipated changes in the expectations of investors or securities analysts; litigation involving us, our industry, or both; regulatory developments in the United States, foreign countries, or both; general economic conditions and trends; 41 major catastrophic events; lockup releases or sales of large blocks of our Class A common stock; departures of key employees; or an adverse impact on the Company from any of the other risks cited in this Annual Report. In addition, if the stock market for technology companies, or the stock market generally, experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our Class A common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, operating results or financial condition. Stock prices of many technology companies have fluctuated in a manner unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. The trading price of our Class A common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us. In the past, stockholders have filed securities class action litigation following periods of market volatility. If we were to become involved in securities litigation, it could subject us to substantial costs, divert resources and the attention of management from our business, and adversely affect our business. Sales of substantial blocks of our Class A common stock into the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline. Sales of substantial blocks of our Class A common stock into the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline and may make it more difficult for you to sell your Class A common stock at a time and price that you deem appropriate. As of March 19, 2021, we had 11,500,000 shares of Class A common stock outstanding. All of the shares of Class A common stock sold in the IPO are freely tradable without restrictions or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, except for any shares held by our affiliates as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Subject to certain exceptions, we, all of our directors and officers and all of the other holders of our capital stock and securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our capital stock have agreed not to offer, sell or agree to sell, directly or indirectly, any shares of Class A common stock without the permission of BofA Securities for a period of 180 days from February 9, 2021 . When the applicable lock-up period expires, we, our directors and officers and locked-up equityholders will be able to sell shares into the public market. The underwriters may, in their sole discretion, permit our directors and officers and locked-up equityholders to sell shares prior to the expiration of the restrictive provisions contained in the lock-up agreements with the underwriters. Pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, and subject to the lock-up agreements described above, holders of our Class B common stock have rights to require us to file registration statements covering the sale of shares of Class A common stock issuable upon exchange of Class B common stock or to include such shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. We also intend to register the offer and sale of all shares of common stock that we may issue under our equity compensation plans. The market price of our Class A common stock could decline as a result of the sale of substantial blocks of our Class A common stock into the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur. 42 We are a controlled company within the meaning of the listing standards of the Nasdaq Global Select Market (Nasdaq) and, as a result, qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. You do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such requirements. The Vanderhook Parties control a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. As a result, we qualify as a controlled company within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of Nasdaq. Under these rules, a listed company of which more than 50% of the voting power with respect to the election of directors is held by an individual, group or another company is a controlled company and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including the requirement that (i) a majority of our board of directors consist of independent directors, (ii) director nominees be selected or recommended to the board entirely by independent directors and (iii) the compensation committee be composed entirely of independent directors. We rely on some or all of these exemptions. We also rely on the transition period with respect to the composition of the audit committee available under the Nasdaq rules. As a result, at least initially, we will not have a majority of independent directors, our audit committee and our compensation committee will not consist entirely of independent directors and our directors may not be nominated or selected entirely by independent directors. Accordingly, you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of Nasdaq. Insiders have substantial control over our company, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key decisions, including a change of control. Through their ownership of Class B common stock, the Vanderhook Parties control 74.9% of the voting power of our common stock in the election of directors. This control will limit or preclude your ability to influence corporate matters for the foreseeable future. These stockholders will be able to influence or control matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers, acquisitions or other extraordinary transactions. Their interests may differ from yours and they may vote in a manner that is adverse to your interests. This control may deter, delay or prevent a change of control of our company, deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their Class A common stock as part of a sale of our company and may ultimately affect the market price of our Class A common stock. We cannot assure you that an active trading market for our Class A common stock will be sustained, and we cannot predict the market price at which our Class A common stock will trade in the future. Our common stock is currently listed on the Nasdaq under the symbol DSP. We cannot assure you that an active trading market for our Class A common stock will be sustained. We cannot predict the market price at which our Class A common stock will trade in the future. The lack of an active market may impair the value of your shares, your ability to sell your shares at the time you wish to sell them and the prices that you may obtain for your shares. An inactive market may also impair our ability to raise capital by selling our Class A common stock and our ability to acquire other companies, products or technologies by using our Class A common stock as consideration. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future and, as a result, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our Class A common stock. We do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We anticipate that we will retain all of our future earnings for use in the development of our business and for general corporate purposes. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and the terms of our current and future debt arrangement s . Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their Class A common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investments. 43 The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert our managements attention and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified board members. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, and are required to comply with the applicable requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the listing requirements of Nasdaq, and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Compliance with these rules and regulations increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and increase demand on our systems and resources. Among other things, the Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and operating results and maintain effective disclosure