Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for "free cash" definition and reconciliation to generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP")). Due to our strong operational management, cost control measures, efficient capital expenditures, broad product portfolio, and strong market position, we have historically generated strong free cash. Our aggressive capital expenditure plans for 2023 - 2025 have and will negatively impact our "free cash" generation over that time frame, after which we expect to generate increasingly higher levels of free cash. Financial Strength and Flexibility Over the past few years, we have been deploying our accumulated cash to expand our manufacturing capacity for the future. We believe our strong cash position and available revolving credit facility provide financial strength and flexibility and reduce our exposure to future economic uncertainties. 5 Our Key Challenges Economic Environment Our business and operating results have been and will continue to be impacted by the global economy and the local economies in which our customers operate. Our revenues are dependent on end markets that are impacted by fluctuating consumer and industrial demand, and our operating results can be adversely affected by reduced demand in those markets. Competition Our business is highly competitive worldwide, with low transportation costs and few import barriers. Our major competitors, some of which are larger than us, have significant financial resources and technological capabilities. To continue to grow our business successfully, we need to continually develop, introduce, and market new and innovative products, modify existing products, respond to technological change, and customize certain products to meet customer requirements. Continuous Innovation and Protection of Intellectual Property Our ability to compete effectively with other companies depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology. Although we have been awarded, have filed applications for, or have licenses to use numerous patents in the United States and other countries, there can be no assurance concerning the degree of protection afforded by these patents or the likelihood that pending patents will be issued. Continuing to Grow through Acquisitions Our long-term historical growth in revenues and net earnings has resulted in large part from our strategy of growth through acquisitions. For this strategy to remain successful, we need to continue to identify attractive and available acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions on favorable terms, and integrate new businesses, manufacturing processes, employees, and logistical arrangements into our existing management and operating infrastructure. Supply Chain Disruption The production and sale of our products is reliant on a complex global interconnected supply chain of vendors, manufacturing facilities, third-party contractors, shipping partners, distributors, and end market customers. Our production and results of operations can be negatively impacted by disruptions to any part of the supply chain, many of which are beyond our control. We remain cognizant of these challenges and seek to minimize their effects whenever possible. For a more detailed discussion, see "Supply Chain" below. For a more detailed discussion of the risks and uncertainties inherent in our business, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, see Risk Factors in Item 1A. 6 Key Business Strategies We have entered into a new era at Vishay that focuses on being a customer first, business-minded company that is designed to drive profitable growth, which we are calling Vishay 3.0. We have identified eight strategic levers to achieve our goals: Internal Capacity Expansion Over the next few years, we expect to experience higher growth rates than over the last decade. This expectation is based upon accelerated electrification, such as factory automation, electrical vehicles, A.I., and 5G infrastructure. We are investing in additional capital expenditures to expand key product lines to increase internal capacity and meet customers' needs. These projects include the Newport wafer fab; a new site in Mexico for power inductors and non-linear resistors; a resistor manufacturing expansion in Mexico; expanded 8" diode manufacturing in Taiwan and Turin, Italy; and the new MOSFET 12 fab in Itzehoe, Germany. External Capacity Expansion We are expanding our external capacity, engaging in developing partnerships with subcontractors to outsource production of some commodity products to create incremental capacity for our higher growth and higher return products. Each reportable segment is evaluating subcontractors, including supporting front-end capacities for our semiconductor segments. We maintain significant production facilities in those regions where we market the bulk of our products to reduce lead times and enhance the service and responsiveness that we provide our customers. Optimizing Global Manufacturing Footprint We are evaluating our global manufacturing footprint and began taking steps to optimize it by announcing the closure of three manufacturing sites as part of the restructuring actions that were announced in September 2024. See additional information in Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements. Increased Technical Headcount As part of our plan to foster intensified internal growth, we are focusing on increasing our technical resources, adding additional customer-facing engineers, and intensifying our activities in R&D. We plan to continue to use our R&D, engineering, and product marketing resources to continually roll out new and innovative products. We have seen and will continue to see an increase in operating expenses over the next couple of years as we add these engineering talents. Enhanced Channel Management We aim to further strengthen our relationships with customers and strategic partners by understanding customers' technical needs and providing broad product lines that allow us to provide one-stop shop service, whereby they can streamline their design and purchasing processes by ordering multiple types of products from Vishay. Our investments in internal and external capacity expansion allow us to provide customers with a continuous supply of products and assure them that we have capacity to scale when needed. By increasing our capacity and capabilities, we are also enhancing our ability to support all the business channels, while maximizing the profitability of each one through a focus on higher margin customers. We are providing greater technical support and engaging with customers in-house design engineers through our expanding field application engineers staff. We maintain significant production facilities in those regions where we market the bulk of our products to reduce lead times and enhance the service and responsiveness that we provide to our customers. Our acquisition and R&D activities are broadening our product offerings and allowing us to expand the portfolio of products we sell to catalogue distributors. Innovation Our ability to react to changing customer needs and industry trends will continue to be key to our success. We intend to leverage our insights into customer demand to continually develop new innovative products within our existing lines and to modify our existing core products to make them more appealing, addressing changing customer needs and industry trends. We are directing increased funding and are focusing on developing products to capitalize on the mega trends of electrification, data storage, and wireless communications that are critical to our future success. Vishay Solutions Another area of focus is our introduction of solution selling, speaking to customer engineers about applications, and the performance improvement that Vishay components can bring from the full array of our portfolio. Customer engineers look for suppliers who can provide solutions to advance their technologies. We are developing reference designs to meet customer needs using the breadth of our product portfolio. Vishays semiconductors and passive components can populate greater than 80% of the components on the circuit board in many applications. Mergers and Acquisitions We also plan to continue to expand within the electronic components industry, through the acquisition of other manufacturers of electronic components that have established positions in major markets, reputations for product innovation, quality, and reliability, strong customer bases, and product lines with which we have substantial marketing and technical expertise. It also includes certain businesses that possess technologies which we expect to further develop and commercialize, businesses that we grow using our manufacturing capabilities, capacity, and economies of scale and global customer base, and key niche suppliers that allow us to vertically integrate our supply chain. 7 Products We design, manufacture, and market electronic components that cover a wide range of functions and technologies. Our products include commodity, non-commodity, and custom products in which we believe we enjoy a good reputation and strong brand recognition, including our Siliconix, Dale, Draloric, Beyschlag, Sfernice, MCB, UltraSource, Applied Thin-Film Products, IHLP, HiRel Systems, Sprague, Vitramon, Barry, Roederstein, ESTA, BCcomponents, and Ametherm brands. We promote our ability to provide one-stop shop service to customers, whereby they can streamline their design and purchasing processes by ordering multiple types of products from Vishay. Our technical sales force consisting of field application engineers offers customers the complete breadth of the Vishay portfolio for their applications. We aim to use this broad portfolio to increase opportunities to have our components selected and designed in to new end products. We consider any product which is completely interchangeable with a competitors product to be a commodity product. Commodity products serve many markets. For 2024, commodity products comprised 27% of our revenues. We consider products that generally are produced by a small number of competitors who have similar, but not exact, products to be "certified" products. Certified products typically have a qualification and serve a particular end-use market. For 2024, certified products comprised 49% of our revenues. We also sell several custom products. Usually, a custom product is designed for a specific customer, and such part number is sold to only that customer. For 2024, custom products comprised 24% of our revenues. We evaluate our level of product innovation by measuring how much of our revenue is derived from products developed in the previous five years. Products for certain end-use markets, particularly the automotive market, tend to have longer product life cycles, which may impact these metrics. Approximately 30% of our annual revenues are generated by products that were developed in the previous five years. Product Segments Our products can be divided into two general classes: semiconductors and passive components. Semiconductors are sometimes referred to as active components because they require power to function whereas passive components do not require power to function.Our semiconductor and passive components products are further categorized based on their functionality for financial reporting purposes. 8 Semiconductors Our semiconductor products include metal oxide semiconductor field-effect transistors ("MOSFETs"), diodes, and optoelectronic components. Semiconductors are typically used to perform functions such as switching, amplifying, rectifying, routing, or transmitting electrical signals, power conversion, and power management. MOSFETs Segment MOSFETs function as solid state switches to control power. Our MOSFETs business includes both the commodity and non-commodity markets in which we believe that we enjoy a good reputation and strong brand recognition (Siliconix). MOSFETs applications include mobile phones, notebook and desktop computers, tablet computers, digital cameras, televisions, DC/DC and AC/DC switch mode power supplies, solar inverters, automotive and industrial systems. We are a leader in low-voltage TrenchFET MOSFETs and also offer high-voltage MOSFETs. Our MOSFETs product line includes low- and medium-voltage TrenchFET MOSFETs, high-voltage planar MOSFETs, high voltage Super Junction MOSFETs, power integrated circuits (power ICs), and integrated function power devices. We are one of the technology leaders in MOSFETs, with a tradition of innovation in wafer design, packaging, and performance. Our acquisition of MaxPower Semiconductor, Inc. ("MaxPower") adds leading edge silicon and silicon carbide technology to our MOSFETs product line. Our acquisition of Nexperia's Newport fab on March 5, 2024 will enhance the manufacturing capacity and capabilities of our MOSFETs segment. In 2024, commodity products comprised 37% of our annual MOSFETs segment revenues. Certified products comprised 47% of our annual MOSFETs segment revenues. Custom products comprised 16% of our annual MOSFETs segment revenues. Approximately 35% of our annual MOSFETs segment revenues were generated by products that were developed in the previous five years. Diodes Segment Diodes route, regulate, and block radio frequency, analog, and power signals; protect systems from surges or electrostatic discharge damage; or provide electromagnetic interference filtering. Our Diodes business has a strong market presence in both the commodity and non-commodity markets. The products that comprise our Diodes business represent our broadest product line and include rectifiers, small signal diodes, protection diodes, thyristors/SCRs and power modules. The primary application of rectifiers, found inside the power supplies of virtually all electronic equipment, is to derive DC power from the AC supply. Vishay is the worldwide leader in rectifiers, having a broad technology base and a good position in automotive, industrial, computing and consumer markets. Our rectifier innovations include TMBS using Trench MOS barrier Schottky rectifier technology, which reduces power loss and improves the efficiency of end systems and eSMP, the best in class high-current density surface mount packages. Our wide selection of small signal diodes consist of the following functions: switching, tuning, band-switching, RF attenuation and voltage regulation (Zener). They are available in various glass and plastic packaging options and generally are used in electronic circuits, where small currents and high frequencies are involved. Vishay is also one of the market leaders for TVS (transient voltage suppressor) diodes. The portfolio of protection diodes includes ESD protection and EMI filter. Our thyristors or SCR (silicon-controlled rectifiers) are very popular in the industrial high-voltage AC power control applications. The fast growing markets of solar inverter and HEV/EV are the focus of our power modules business (IGBT or MOSFET modules). These modules can be customized to fit in different customer design requirements. In 2024, commodity products comprised 56% of our annual Diodes segment revenues. Certified products comprised 26% of our annual Diodes segment revenues. Custom products comprised 18% of our annual Diodes segment revenues. Approximately 25% of our annual Diodes segment revenues were generated by products that were developed in the previous five years. Optoelectronic Components Segment Optoelectronic components emit light, detect light, or do both. Our broad range of standard and customer specific optoelectronic components includes infrared (IR) emitters and detectors, IR remote control receivers, optocouplers, solid-state relays, optical sensors, light-emitting diodes (LEDs), 7-segment displays, and IR data transceiver modules (IrDA). Our IR remote control receivers are designed for use in infrared remote control, data transmission, and light barrier applications in end products including televisions, set-top boxes, notebook computers, and audio systems. We are the leading manufacturer of IR remote control receivers. Our optocouplers electrically isolate input and output signals. Uses include switch-mode power supplies, consumer electronics, telecommunications equipment, solar inverters, and industrial systems. Our IR data transceiver modules are used for short range, two-way, high-speed, and secure wireless data transfer between electronic devices such as home medical appliances, mobile phones, industrial data loggers, and metering. Our optical sensors products include ambient light sensors, optical encoders, integrated photodiode and I/V amplifiers, proximity sensors, color sensors, and UV sensors. Applications include telecommunications, mobile phones, smartphone, handheld devices, digital cameras, laptops, desktop computers, LED backlighting, office automation equipment, household electrical appliance and automotive electronics. Our LEDs are designed for backlighting and illumination in automotive and other applications. Our LEDs include ultra-bright as well as small surface-mount packages, with products available in all standard colors including white. All of our Optoelectronic Components segment products are certified or custom products. Approximately 40% of our annual Optoelectronic Components segment revenues were generated by products that were developed in the previous five years. 9 Passive Components Our passive components include resistors, inductors, and capacitors. Passive components are used to store electrical charges, to limit or resist electrical current, and to help in filtering, surge suppression, measurement, timing, and tuning applications. Resistors Segment Resistors impede electric current. Resistors are basic components used in all forms of electronic circuitry to adjust and regulate levels of voltage and current. Our Resistors business is our original business. We maintain the broadest portfolio of resistor products worldwide. We are a market leader with a strong technology base, many specialty products, and strong brand recognition (such as our Dale, Draloric, Beyschlag, Sfernice, and Ametherm brands). We focus on higher value markets in specialized industries, while maintaining a complete portfolio of commodity products. We do not aim to be the volume leader in commodity markets. Resistors vary widely in precision and cost, and are manufactured from numerous materials and in many forms. Linear resistive components are classified as variable or fixed, depending on whether or not their resistance is adjustable. Non-linear resistors function by varying in resistance under influence of temperature (thermistors) or voltage (varistors). They can be used in temperature-measuring applications or as current or voltage-limiting devices. We manufacture virtually all types of fixed resistors, both in discrete and network forms, as well as many variable types. Vishay resistor innovations include Power Metal Strip technology. These resistors feature very low resistance and are used to measure changes in current flow (current sensing) or divert current flow (shunting). In 2024, commodity products comprised 16% of our annual Resistors segment revenues. Certified products comprised 52% of our annual Resistors segment revenues. Custom products comprised 32% of our annual Resistors segment revenues. Approximately 20% of our annual Resistors segment revenues were generated by products that were developed in the previous five years. Inductors Segment Inductors also impede electric current. Inductors use an internal magnetic field to change alternating current phase and resist alternating current. While part of our traditional business, the inductors product line has grown significantly in recent years. We are a market leader with a strong technology base, many specialty products, and strong name recognition (such as our IHLP and HiRel Systems brands). We focus on higher value markets in specialized industries, such as the industrial, automotive, military, and medical end markets. Inductor applications include controlling AC current and voltage, filtering out unwanted electrical signals, and energy storage. Vishay inductor innovations include our patented IHLP low-profile, high-current inductor technology with industry-leading specifications. Our low-profile, high-current inductors save circuit board space and power in voltage regulator module (VRM) and DC to DC converter applications. In addition, we are a worldwide leader in custom magnetic solutions focusing on high performance and high reliability. Substantially all of our Inductors segment products are certified or custom products. Approximately 20% of our annual Inductors segment revenues were generated by products that were developed in the previous five years. Capacitors Segment Capacitors store energy and discharge it when needed. Our Capacitors business consists of a broad range of reliable, high-quality products. We have a strong presence worldwide in specialty markets based on our product performance and reliability and strong brand recognition (including our Sprague, Vitramon, Roederstein, BCcomponents, and ESTA brands). We focus on higher value markets in specialized industries, while maintaining a complete portfolio of commodity products. We do not aim to be the volume leader in commodity markets. Capacitors are used in almost all electronic circuits. They store energy and discharge it when needed. Important applications for capacitors include electronic filtering for linear and switching power supplies; decoupling and bypass of electronic signals for integrated circuits and circuit boards; and frequency control, timing and conditioning of electronic signals for a broad range of applications. We manufacture products based on all major capacitor technologies: tantalum (molded chip tantalum, coated chip tantalum, solid through-hole tantalum, wet tantalum, and polymer), ceramic (multilayer chip and ceramic disc), film, power, heavy-current, and aluminum electrolytic. Our capacitors range from tiny surface-mount devices for hearing aids and mobile devices to large power correction capacitors used in renewable energy, heavy industry, and electrical power grids. We are a recognized technology leader in many product ranges, securing our strong position in military and medical markets, and in a wide range of industrial and automotive applications. Our wet tantalum and MicroTan technologies are market leaders. In 2024, commodity products comprised 23% of our annual Capacitors segment revenues. Certified products comprised 52% of our annual Capacitors segment revenues. Custom products comprised 25% of our annual Capacitors segment revenues. Approximately 35% of our annual Capacitors segment revenues were generated by products that were developed in the previous five years. 10 Military Qualifications We have qualified certain of our products under various military specifications approved and monitored by United States government agencies, and under certain European military specifications. Qualification levels are based in part upon the rate of failure of products. In order to maintain the classification level of a product, we must continuously perform tests on the product and the results of these tests must be reported to the government agencies. If the product fails to meet the requirements for the applicable classification level, the products classification may be reduced to a lower level. During the time that the classification level is reduced for a product with military application, net revenues and earnings attributable to that product may be adversely affected. Manufacturing Operations In order to better serve our customers, we maintain production facilities in locations where we market the bulk of our products, such as the United States, Germany, and Asia. To optimize production efficiencies, we have whenever practicable established manufacturing facilities in countries, such as India, Israel, Malaysia, Mexico, the Peoples Republic of China, and the Philippines, where we can benefit from lower labor costs. One of our most sophisticated manufacturing operations is the production of power semiconductor components. This manufacturing process involves two phases of production: wafer fabrication and assembly (or packaging). Wafer fabrication subjects silicon wafers to various thermal, metallurgical, and chemical process steps that change their electrical and physical properties. These process steps define cells or circuits within numerous individual devices (termed dies or chips) on each wafer. Assembly is the sequence of production steps that divides the wafer into individual chips and encloses the chips in structures (termed packages) that make them usable in a circuit. Both wafer fabrication and assembly phases incorporate wafer level and device level electrical testing to ensure that device design integrity has been achieved. In the United States, our manufacturing facilities are located in California, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New York, Rhode Island, South Dakota, Vermont, and Wisconsin. In Asia, our main manufacturing facilities are located in the Peoples Republic of China, the Republic of China (Taiwan), India, and Malaysia. In Europe, our main manufacturing facilities are located in Germany, the United Kingdom, France, and the Czech Republic. We have substantial manufacturing facilities in Israel and Mexico. We also have manufacturing facilities in Austria, Dominican Republic, Japan, Hungary, Italy, Portugal, and the Philippines. Over the past several years, we have invested substantial resources to increase the efficiency of our plants, which we believe will further reduce production costs. All of our manufacturing operations have received ISO 9001 certification. ISO 9001 is a comprehensive set of quality program standards developed by the International Standards Organization. Supply Chain The production and sale of our products is reliant on a complex global interconnected supply chain of vendors, manufacturing facilities, third-party foundries and subcontractors, shipping partners, distributors, and end market customers. Disruption in one part of the supply chain could cause disruption in all other parts of the supply chain. Global shipping impacts several parts of the supply chain and the disruptions experienced in the recent years have, at times, negatively impacted our ability to manufacture products and to deliver them to customers. Although most materials incorporated into our products are available from a number of sources, certain materials, including plastics and metals, are produced in only a limited number of regions around the world or are available from only a limited number of suppliers. Suppliers periodically extend lead times, face capacity constraints, limit supplies, increase prices, experience quality issues, or encounter cybersecurity or other issues that can interrupt or increase the cost of our supply. The unavailability or reduced availability of these materials could require us to temporarily cease or reduce production or incur additional costs. Customer requirements and certain laws pertaining to the responsible sourcing of materials, including tantalum, tungsten, tin, gold, and cobalt, all of which are used in the Companys products, are increasing and becoming more stringent. Responsible sourcing efforts may result in increased prices and decreased availability of these materials. Many of the metals used in the manufacture of our products, including gold, copper, and palladium, are traded on active markets and can be subject to significant price volatility. To ensure adequate supply and to provide cost certainty, our policy is to enter into short-term commitments to purchase defined portions of annual consumption of the raw materials utilized if market prices decline below budget. If after entering into these commitments, the market prices for these raw materials decline, we must recognize losses on these adverse purchase commitments. In certain circumstances, we also purchase precious metals bullion in excess of our immediate manufacturing needs to mitigate the risk of supply shortages or volatile price fluctuations. Our production can be disrupted by the unavailability of resources, such as water, energy, and gases. The unavailability or reduced availability of these resources could require us to reduce production or incur additional costs. We use third-party foundries and subcontractors for certain of our manufacturing activities, primarily wafer fabrication, the assembly and testing of finished goods, and the manufacturing of certain commodity products. Establishing third-party contract manufacturer relationships can be time consuming and costly, and the number of qualified providers is limited. Our agreements with these manufacturers typically require us to commit to purchase services based on forecasted product needs, which may be inaccurate, and, in some cases, require us to recognize losses on these adverse purchase commitments. Our agreements may limit our ability to increase production, particularly during periods of growing demand for our products. 11 Due to our global supply chain, we are impacted by global trade disputes. The governments of the U.S. and the Peoples Republic of China remain in a trade dispute that has resulted in tariffs and other trade restrictions including import / export prohibitions. Disruptions to global trade could result in customers seeking different sources of product or requiring us to seek different sources of supply. New or revised trade agreements could require changes in operations in the long-term. We remain cognizant of these supply chain challenges and seek to minimize their effects whenever possible. Despite our best efforts, there can be no assurances we will be successful in mitigating these risks. Inventory and Backlog We manufacture both standardized products and those designed and produced to meet customer specifications. We maintain an inventory of standardized components and monitor the backlog of outstanding orders for our products. We include in our backlog only open orders that we expect to ship in the next twelve months. Many of our customers encounter uncertain and changing demand for their products. They typically order products from us based on their forecasts. If demand falls below customers forecasts, or if customers do not control their inventory effectively, they may cancel or reschedule the shipments included in our backlog, in many instances without the payment of any penalty. Therefore, our backlog at any point in time is not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for future periods. Customers and Marketing We sell our products to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), electronic manufacturing services (EMS) companies, which manufacture for OEMs on an outsourcing basis, and independent distributors that maintain large inventories of electronic components for resale to OEMs and EMS companies. See Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements for net revenues by customer type. Our sales organizations are regionally based. While our sales and support procedures are typically similar across all regions, we remain flexible in our ability to offer programs tailored to our customers specific support requirements in each local area. The aim of our sales organizations is supporting our customers across all product lines, developing new design wins, negotiating contracts, and providing general commercial support as would normally be expected of a large multi-national sales force. We have an established Strategic Global Account program, which provides each of our top customers with a dedicated Strategic Global Account Manager. Our Strategic Global Account Managers are typically highly experienced salesmen or saleswomen who are capable of providing key customers with the coordination and management visibility required in a complex multi-product business relationship. They typically coordinate the sales, pricing, contract, logistic, quality, and other aspects of the customers business requirements. The Strategic Global Account Manager normally is the focal point of communication between Vishay and our main customers. We maintain a similar program for our strategic distributors as well. We work with our customers so that our products are incorporated into the design of electronic equipment at the earliest stages of development and to provide technical and applications support. In addition to our staff of direct field sales personnel, independent manufacturers representatives, and distributors, our Business Development group maintains teams of dedicated Field Application Engineers (FAEs) to assist our customers in solving technical problems and in developing products to meet specific customer application needs using our entire product portfolio to provide support for our customers engineering needs. Organized by market segment, our Business Development FAEs bring specific knowledge of component applications in their areas of expertise in the automotive, telecommunications, computer, consumer/entertainment, industrial, peripherals, digital consumer, and other market segments. With the ultimate goal of a Vishay design-in the process by which our customers specify a Vishay component in their products this program offers our customers enhanced access to all Vishay technologies while at the same time increasing design wins, and ultimately sales, for us. Most importantly, the process is closely monitored via a proprietary database developed by our Business Development group. Our database captures specific design activities and allows for real-time measurement of new business potential for our management team. Our top 30 customers have been relatively stable despite not having long-term commitments to purchase our products. With selected customers, we have signed longer term (greater than one year) contracts for specific products. Net revenues from our top 30 customers represent approximately 72% of our total net revenues. No single customer comprised more than 10% of our total net revenues for 2024. In certain areas we also work with sales representatives. The commission expense for these sales representatives is not material. Research and Development Many of our products and manufacturing techniques, technologies, and packaging methods have been invented, designed, and developed by Dr. Felix Zandman, our engineers, and our scientists. We maintain strategically placed design centers where proximity to customers enables us to more easily gauge and satisfy the needs of local markets. These design centers are located predominantly in the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany, Italy, Israel, Ireland, the Peoples Republic of China, France, and the Republic of China (Taiwan). We also employ research and development personnel and promote programs at a number of our production facilities to develop new products and new applications of existing products and to improve manufacturing processes and technologies. This decentralized system encourages product development at individual manufacturing facilities, closer to our customers. 12 Competition We face strong competition in various product lines from both domestic and foreign manufacturers. Our primary competitors by product type include: MOSFETs: Infineon, ON Semiconductor, Renesas, STMicroelectronics, Toshiba. Diodes: Diodes Inc., Nexperia, ON Semiconductor, Rohm, STMicroelectronics. Optoelectronic Components: Broadcom, ON Semiconductor, Renesas, Toshiba. Resistors: Bourns,KOA, Murata, Panasonic, Rohm, TDK-EPCOS, Yageo. Inductors: Bourns,Cyntec, Murata, Panasonic, Taiyo Yuden, TDK-EPCOS, Yageo. Capacitors: Kyocera, Murata, Nichicon, Panasonic, Taiyo Yuden, TDK-EPCOS, Yageo. There are many other companies that produce products in the markets in which we compete. Our competitive position depends on our ability to maintain a competitive advantage on the basis of product quality, know-how, proprietary data, market knowledge, service capability, technological innovation, business reputation, and price competitiveness. Our sales and marketing programs aim to compete by offering our customers a broad range of world-class technologies and products, superior global sales and distribution support, and a secure and multi-location source of product supply. There has been a considerable amount of consolidation activity in the electronic component industry, some of which involved our primary competitors. We view the industry consolidation as an opportunity for us to gain business as an independent second-source supplier. Patents and Licenses We have made a significant investment in securing intellectual property protection for our technology and products. We seek to protect our technology by, among other things, filing patent applications for technology considered important to the development of our business. We also rely upon trade secrets, unpatented know-how, continuing technological innovation, and the aggressive pursuit of licensing opportunities to help develop and maintain our competitive position. Our ability to compete effectively with other companies depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology. Although we have been awarded, have filed applications for, or have been licensed under, numerous patents in the United States and other countries, there can be no assurance concerning the degree of protection afforded by these patents or the likelihood that pending patents will be issued. We require all of our technical, research and development, sales and marketing, and management employees and most consultants and other advisors to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of employment or consulting relationships with us. These agreements provide that all confidential information developed or made known to the entity or individual during the course of the entitys or individuals relationship with us is to be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in specific circumstances. Substantially all of our technical, research and development, sales and marketing, and management employees have entered into agreements providing for the assignment to us of rights to inventions made by them while employed by us. When we believe other companies are misappropriating our intellectual property rights, we vigorously enforce those rights through legal action, and we intend to continue to do so. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings. Although we have numerous United States and foreign patents covering certain of our products and manufacturing processes, no particular patent is considered individually material to our business. Human Capital As a global company, we collaborate internationally and celebrate the diversity of our local cultures. Employees are encouraged to bring their unique perspectives, help identify opportunities to collaborate, and open themselves to the career development that comes from learning from others. As of December 31, 2024, we employed approximately 22,700 full time employees worldwide. Reflecting our global business, our executive management team and many leadership positions are dispersed throughout the world. 13 Employees by location are summarized as follows: United States 2,200 Peoples Republic of China 6,900 Germany 2,300 Israel 2,000 Taiwan 1,900 Czech Republic 1,200 India 1,100 Other Europe 2,000 Other Americas 1,300 Other Asia 1,800 Total 22,700 Many of our employees outside the United States are members of workers councils or unions or otherwise subject to collective bargaining agreements. Employees at one small U.S. facility, representing less than 1% of our U.S. workforce, are represented by a trade union. We consider our relations with our employees positive, fair, and equitable. Our greatest assets are our employees, and our continued success depends on our ability to attract, retain, and develop high levels of talent across the organization. Each person and each role plays a critical role in our success. Vishay continuously invests in its people through diverse training offerings, networking opportunities, and a commitment to developing life and professional skills. Employee development programs offer individual and group learning to maintain profitable business growth while increasing speed and agility. Vishay is continuously evolving to meet or exceed customer and market demands, which requires increased collaboration and agility. We are fostering a high-performance culture in which employees are encouraged to share ideas, adopt continuous improvement practices, and work together to achieve our organizational goals. Our training and communication efforts focus on instilling a mindset of accountability and ownership. In late 2023, we completed the first phase of implementing a global human capital management system. This system is designed to enhance communication, development, and efficient business processes for our international workforce. In 2025, we will implement additional modules to further expand our capabilities for leveraging global talent and consistently enforcing performance standards. Throughout 2024, we continued to strengthen our internal Talent Acquisition function to effectively and promptly source key technical talent, enabling more agile resource scaling to support anticipated growth. As we redefine leadership, our organizational structure is evolving. We empower our employees by streamlining decision-making processes, which accelerates decision-making across the organization. In September 2024, we announced restructuring actions designed to optimize our manufacturing footprint and streamline business decision making. The restructuring actions will be implemented in phases and will result in a reduction of approximately 2% of our manufacturing workforce and 6% of our SG&A workforce. Regulatory Compliance We are required to comply with numerous regulations that are normal and customary to businesses in our industry and the jurisdictions in which we operate. These regulations relate to, among other things, environmental health and safety, procurement integrity, export control, government security regulations, employment practices, accuracy of records and the recording of costs, anti-corruption, and privacy. See Item 1A, Risk Factors, for additional discussion of such regulations and the potential consequences for non-compliance. Environmental Health and Safety We have adopted an Environmental Health and Safety Corporate Policy that commits us to achieve and maintain compliance with applicable environmental laws, to promote proper management of hazardous materials for the safety of our employees and the protection of the environment, and to minimize the hazardous materials generated in the course of our operations. This policy is implemented with accountability directly to the Board of Directors. In addition, our manufacturing operations are subject to various federal, state, and local laws restricting discharge of materials into the environment. We are involved in environmental remediation programs at various sites currently or formerly owned by us and our subsidiaries both within and outside of the U.S., in addition to involvement as a potentially responsible party (PRP) at Superfund sites. Certain obligations as a PRP have arisen in connection with business acquisitions. The remediation programs are on-going and the ultimate cost of site cleanup is difficult to predict given the uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings. We are not involved in any pending or threatened proceedings that would require curtailment of our operations. We continually expend funds to ensure that our facilities comply with applicable environmental regulations. While we believe that we are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, we cannot accurately predict future developments and do not necessarily have knowledge of all past occurrences on sites that we currently occupy. More stringent environmental regulations may be enacted in the future, and we cannot determine the modifications, if any, in our operations that any such future regulations might require, or the cost of compliance with such regulations. Moreover, the risk of environmental liability and remediation costs is inherent in the nature of our business and, therefore, there can be no assurance that material environmental costs, including remediation costs, will not arise in the future. 14 With each acquisition, we attempt to identify potential environmental concerns and to minimize, or obtain indemnification for, the environmental matters we may be required to address. In addition, we establish reserves for specifically identified potential environmental liabilities. We believe that the reserves we have established are adequate. Nevertheless, we have in the past and may in the future inherit certain pre-existing environmental liabilities, generally based on successor liability doctrines. Although we have never been involved in any environmental matter that has had a material adverse impact on our overall operations, there can be no assurance that in connection with any past or future acquisition we will not be obligated to address environmental matters that could have a material adverse impact on our operations. Company Information and Website We file annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including us, that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that we file with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. In addition, our company website can be found on the Internet at www.vishay.com. The website contains information about us and our operations. Copies of each of our filings with the SEC on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, and Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports, can be viewed and downloaded free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports and amendments are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. To view the reports, access ir.vishay.com and click on SEC Filings. The following corporate governance related documents are also available on our website: Corporate Governance Principles Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Code of Ethics for Financial Officers Audit Committee Charter Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Charter Compensation Committee Charter Amended and Restated Executive Stock Ownership Guidelines Director Stock Ownership Guidelines Clawback Policy Hedging-Pledging Policy Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Policy Regarding Qualifications of Directors Related Party Transactions Policy To view these documents, access ir.vishay.com and click on Corporate Governance. Any of the above documents can also be obtained in print by any stockholder upon request to our Investor Relations Department at the following address: Corporate Investor Relations Vishay Intertechnology, Inc. 63 Lancaster Avenue Malvern, PA 19355-2143 15 Item 1A.RISK FACTORS From time to time, information provided by us, including but not limited to statements in this report, or other statements made by or on our behalf, may contain forward-looking information within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control, which may cause actual results, performance, or achievements to differ materially from those anticipated. Set forth below are important factors that could cause our results, performance, or achievements to differ materially from those in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. Risks relating to our business Our business is cyclical and future periods of decline and increased demand are not predictable. We make significant decisions, including order acceptance, production schedules, personnel needs, material purchases, and other resource requirements, based on customer forecasts and estimates of customer requirements. The electronic component industry is highly cyclical and experiences periods of decline from time to time. We and others in the electronic components industry have experienced these conditions in the recent past and cannot predict when we may experience downturns in the future. If demand falls below customers' forecasts or if customers do not control their inventory effectively, customers may significantly and abruptly reduce their demand, or even cancel orders. Orders for materials purchases from certain suppliers may include noncancellable purchase commitments or advance payments from us, and those obligations and commitments could reduce our ability to adjust our inventory or expense levels to reflect declining market demands. Because certain of our sales, research and development, and internal manufacturing overhead expenses are relatively fixed, a reduction in customer demand likely would decrease our gross margins and operating income. Unexpected declines in customer demands can also result in lower average selling prices and additional expenses. We may also experience intense demand for our products in periods of a rising economy and we may have difficulty expanding our manufacturing capacity to satisfy demand during such periods. We may not be able to purchase sufficient supplies, allocate sufficient manufacturing capacity, hire skilled personnel, or expand our facilities to meet such increases in demand. Rapid customer ramp-up and significant increases in demand may strain our resources or negatively affect our margins. Inability to satisfy customer demand in a timely manner may harm our reputation, reduce our other opportunities, damage our relationships with customers, reduce our market share, reduce revenue growth, and/or cause us to incur contractual penalties. Changes in the demand mix, needed technologies, and these end markets may adversely affect our ability to match our products, inventory, and capacity to meet customer demand and could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. A slowdown in demand or recessionary trends in the global economy makes it more difficult for us to predict our future sales and manage our operations, and could adversely impact our results of operations. Capacity that we add during upturns in the business cycle may result in excess capacity during periods when demand for our products recede, resulting in inefficient use of capital which could also adversely affect us. A downturn in our business in general, or isolated to a particular sector, could require us to incur restructuring and severance charges and/or asset write-downs. We face significant challenges managing our capacity expansion strategy. As part of our strategy to drive growth and increase capacity to assure customers of reliable volume as they scale, we are increasing internal capacity by heavily investing in capital expenditures, and plan to increase external capacity by outsourcing additional commodity products to subcontractors. Our capacity expansion plans include the expansion of the recently acquired Newport wafer fab, building a 12-inch wafer fab in Itzehoe, Germany adjacent to our existing 8-inch wafer fab, a new site in Mexico for power inductors and non-linear resistors, a resistor manufacturing expansion in Mexico, and expanded diode manufacturing in Taiwan and Turin, Italy. There are demand-related risks associated with all growth initiatives. There are also inherent execution risks in building and starting new wafer fabs, acquiring existing wafer fabs, and expanding production capacity at our own facilities or that of new or existing subcontractors that could significantly increase costs and negatively impact our operating results. The risks include, but are not limited to, the following: design and construction delays and cost overruns; issues installing and qualifying new equipment and ramping production; poor production process yields and reduced quality control; and insufficient personnel with requisite expertise and experience to operate the facilities. 16 We have incurred, and may in the future incur, restructuring costs and associated asset write-downs. To remain competitive, particularly when business conditions are difficult, or to implement organizational change, we sometimes implement restructuring programs. The programs attempt to reduce our cost structure by achieving synergies, eliminating redundant facilities and staff positions, and moving operations, where possible, to jurisdictions with lower labor costs. In 2024, we announced a restructuring program that primarily focuses on optimizing our manufacturing footprint and streamlining business decision making. Additionally, our long-term strategy includes growing through the integration of acquired businesses, and GAAP requires plant closure and employee termination costs that we incur in connection with our acquisition activities to be recorded as expenses in our consolidated statement of operations, as such expenses are incurred. For this reason, we expect to have some level of future restructuring expenses due to acquisitions. Our business may be adversely affected by the widespread outbreak of diseases and the mitigation efforts by governments worldwide to control their spread. We cannot predict when future disease outbreaks or pandemics will occur. The potential risks and effects of future disease outbreaks and the related economic impact that could have an adverse effect on our business include, but are not limited to: Adverse impact on our customers and supply channels; Decrease in sales, product demand and pricing and unfavorable economic and market conditions; Increased costs, including higher shipping costs due to reduced shipping capacity; Restrictions on our manufacturing, support operations or workforce, or similar limitations for our customers, vendors, and suppliers, that could limit our ability to meet customer demand; Potential increased credit risk if customers, distributors, and resellers are unable to pay us, or must delay paying their obligations to us; Restrictions or disruptions of transportation, such as reduced availability of air transport, port closures, and increased border controls or closures could result in delays; Impact on our workforce/employees due to the spread of the virus and any shelter-in-place orders; and Cybersecurity risks as a result of extended periods of remote work arrangements. Such effects could result in us being required to record impairment charges related to our property and equipment, intangible assets, or goodwill. In the past we have grown through successful integration of acquired businesses, but this may not continue. Our long-term historical growth in revenues and net earnings has resulted in large part from our strategy of expansion through acquisitions. Despite our plan to continue to grow, in part, through targeted acquisitions, we may be unable to continue to identify, have the financial capabilities to acquire, or successfully complete transactions with suitable acquisition candidates. The rapid consolidation that our industry has experienced may further decrease our ability to identify attractive opportunities for acquisition. We are subject to various U.S. and foreign competition laws and regulations that may affect our ability to complete certain acquisitions. Also, if an acquired business fails to operate as anticipated, cannot be successfully integrated with our other businesses, or we cannot effectively mitigate the assumed, contingent, and unknown liabilities acquired, our results of operations, financial condition, enterprise value, market value, and prospects could all be materially adversely affected. 17 To remain successful, we must continue to innovate, and our investments in new technologies may not prove successful. Our future operating results are dependent on our ability to continually develop, introduce, and market new and innovative products, to modify existing products, to respond to technological change, and to customize certain products to meet customer requirements. There are numerous risks inherent in this process, including the risks that we will be unable to anticipate the direction of technological change or that we will be unable to develop and market new products and applications in a timely fashion to satisfy customer demands. If this occurs, we could lose customers and experience adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition to our own research and development initiatives, we periodically invest in technology start-up enterprises, in which we may acquire a controlling or noncontrolling interest but whose technology would be available to be commercialized by us. There are numerous risks in investments of this nature including the limited operating history of such start-up entities, their need for capital, and their limited or absence of production experience, as well as the risk that their technologies may prove ineffective or fail to gain acceptance in the marketplace. Certain of our historical investments in start-up companies have not succeeded, and there can be no assurance that our current and future investments in start-up enterprises will prove successful. Potential investments in artificial intelligence may not be successful, which could adversely affect our business, reputation, or financial results. We are evaluating investments in A.I. initiatives, including generative A.I. There are significant risks involved in developing and deploying A.I., and there can be no assurance that the usage of A.I. will enhance our products or services or be beneficial to our business, including our efficiency or profitability. For example, our A.I.-related efforts, particularly those related to generative A.I., subject us to risk related to harmful content, inaccuracies, bias, discrimination, toxicity, intellectual property infringement or misappropriation, defamation, data privacy, cybersecurity, and sanctions and export controls, among others. It is also uncertain how various laws will apply to content generated by A.I. We are subject to risks of new or enhanced governmental or regulatory scrutiny, litigation, or other legal liability, ethical concerns, negative consumer perceptions as to automation and A.I., or other complications that could adversely affect our business, reputation, or financial results. As a result of the complexity and rapid development of A.I., it is the subject of evolving review by various U.S. governmental and regulatory agencies, and other foreign jurisdictions are applying, or are considering applying, their intellectual property, cybersecurity, data protection and other laws to A.I. and/or are considering general legal frameworks on A.I. We may not always be able to anticipate how to respond to these frameworks, given that they are still rapidly evolving. We may also have to expend resources to adjust our use of A.I. in certain jurisdictions if the legal frameworks on A.I. are not consistent across jurisdictions. As such, it is not possible to predict all of the risks related to the use of A.I., and changes in laws, rules, directives, and regulations governing the use of A.I. may adversely affect our ability to develop and use A.I. or subject us to legal liability. Our business and our results of operations are sensitive to supply chain disruptions. The production and sale of our products is reliant on a complex global interconnected supply chain of vendors, manufacturing facilities, third-party foundries and subcontractors, shipping partners, distributors, and end market customers. Disruption in one part of the supply chain could cause disruption in all other parts of the supply chain. Global shipping impacts several parts of the supply chain and the disruptions experienced in recent years have, at times, negatively impacted our ability to manufacture products and to deliver them to customers. Although most materials incorporated into our products are available from a number of sources, certain materials, including plastics and metals, are produced in only a limited number of regions around the world or are available from only a limited number of suppliers. Suppliers periodically extend lead times, face capacity constraints, limit supplies, increase prices, experience quality issues, or encounter cybersecurity or other issues that can interrupt or increase the cost of our supply. The unavailability or reduced availability of these materials could require us to temporarily cease or reduce production or incur additional costs. Customer requirements and certain laws pertaining to the responsible sourcing of materials, including tantalum, tungsten, tin, gold, and cobalt, all of which are used in the Companys products, are increasing and becoming more stringent. Responsible sourcing efforts may result in increased prices and decreased availability of these materials. Many of the metals used in the manufacture of our products, including gold, copper, and palladium, are traded on active markets and can be subject to significant price volatility. To ensure adequate supply and to provide cost certainty, our policy is to enter into short-term commitments to purchase defined portions of annual consumption of the raw materials utilized if market prices decline below budget. In certain circumstances, we purchase precious metals bullion in excess of our immediate manufacturing needs to mitigate the risk of supply shortages or volatile price fluctuations. If after entering into these commitments or purchasing the metals bullion, the market prices for these raw materials decline, we must recognize losses on these adverse purchase commitments and metals bullion purchases. Our production can be disrupted by the unavailability of resources, such as water, energy, and gases. The unavailability or reduced availability of these resources could require us to reduce production or incur additional costs. We use third-party foundries and subcontractors for certain of our manufacturing activities, primarily wafer fabrication, the assembly and testing of finished goods, and the manufacturing of certain commodity products. Establishing third-party contract manufacturer relationships can be time consuming and costly, and the number of qualified providers is limited. Our agreements with these manufacturers typically require us to commit to purchase services based on forecasted product needs, which may be inaccurate, and, in some cases, require us to recognize losses on these adverse purchase commitments. Our agreements may limit our ability to increase production, particularly during periods of growing demand for our products. 18 Due to our global supply chain, we are impacted by global trade disputes. The governments of the U.S. and the Peoples Republic of China remain in a trade dispute that has resulted in tariffs and other trade restrictions including import / export prohibitions. Disruptions to global trade could result in customers seeking different sources of product or requiring us to seek different sources of supply. New or revised trade agreements could require changes in operations in the long-term. We remain cognizant of these supply chain challenges and seek to minimize their effects whenever possible. Despite our best efforts, there can be no assurances we will be successful in mitigating these risks and if we are unable to do so, they may have material negative impacts on our business and results of operations. Our ability to compete effectively with other companies depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology and to operate our business without infringing or violating the intellectual property rights of others. Protection of intellectual property often involves complex legal and factual issues. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. We have applied, and will continue to apply, for patents covering our technologies and products, as we deem appropriate. However, our applications may not result in issued patents. Also, our existing patents and any future patents may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. Others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies, design around our patented technologies, or may challenge or seek to invalidate our patents. Also, the legal system in certain countries in which we operate may not provide or may not continue to provide sufficient, intellectual property legal protections and remedies. Litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights is prevalent in the electronic components industry, particularly the discrete semiconductor sector. We have on occasion been notified that we may be infringing on patent and other intellectual property rights of others. In addition, customers purchasing components from us have rights to indemnification under certain circumstances if such components violate the intellectual property rights of others. Further, we have observed that in the current business environment, electronic component and semiconductor companies have become more aggressive in asserting and defending patent claims against competitors. We will continue to vigorously defend our intellectual property rights, and may become party to disputes regarding patent licensing and cross patent licensing. Although licenses are generally offered in such situations and we have successfully resolved these situations in the past, there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to future litigation alleging intellectual property rights infringement, or that we will be able to obtain licenses on acceptable terms. An unfavorable outcome regarding one of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We face intense competition in our business, and are susceptible to certain concentrations. Our business is highly competitive worldwide, with low transportation costs and few import barriers. We compete principally on the bases of product quality and reliability, availability, customer service, technological innovation, timely delivery, and price. Our ability to compete successfully also depends on elements out of our control. We face significant competition within each of our product segments from larger global manufacturers and smaller manufacturers focused on specific market niches. The electronic component industry has become increasingly concentrated and globalized in recent years as many of our primary competitors have been acquired. The acquiring companies, most of which are larger than us, have significant financial resources and technological capabilities. A material portion of our revenues are derived from the worldwide industrial, automotive, telecommunications, and computing markets. These markets have historically experienced wide variations in demand for end products. If demand for these end products should decrease, the producers thereof could reduce their purchases of our products, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. While no customer comprises over 10% of our consolidated net revenues, certain subsidiaries and product lines are susceptible to customer concentrations and have customers which comprise greater than 10% of the subsidiarys or product lines net revenues. The loss of one of these customers could have a material effect on the results of operations of the subsidiary or product line and financial position of the subsidiary, which could result in an impairment charge which could be material to our consolidated financial statements. Our backlog is subject to customer cancellation. Many of the orders that comprise our backlog may be canceled by our customers without penalty. Our customers may on occasion double and triple order components from multiple sources to ensure timely delivery when demand exceeds global supply. They often cancel orders when business is weak and inventories are excessive. Therefore, we cannot be certain that the amount of our backlog accurately reflects the level of orders that we will ultimately deliver. Our results of operations could be adversely impacted if customers cancel a material portion of orders in our backlog. Our future success is substantially dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, managerial, marketing, finance, and administrative personnel. Rapid changes in technologies, frequent new product introductions, and declining average selling prices over product life cycles require us to attract and retain highly qualified personnel to develop and manufacture products that feature technological innovations and bring them to market on a timely basis. Our complex operations also require us to attract and retain highly qualified administrative personnel in functions such as legal, tax, accounting, financial reporting, auditing, and treasury. The market for personnel with such qualifications is highly competitive. While we have employment agreements with certain of our executives, we have not entered into employment agreements with all of our key personnel. The loss of the services of or the failure to effectively recruit qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. 19 Significant fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. We are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of our borrowing activities and our cash balances. Our credit facility bears interest at variable rates based on Secured Overnight Financing Rate ("SOFR") and other currency-specific reference rates. A significant increase in such reference rates would significantly increase our interest expense. A general increase in interest rates would be largely offset by an increase in interest income earned on our cash and short-term investment balances. However, there can be no assurance that the interest rate earned on cash and short-term investments will move in tandem with the interest rate paid on our variable rate debt. Cyberattacks and other interruptions in our information technology systems could adversely affect our business. We rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business. We are exposed to, and adversely affected by, cyberattacks or other potential disruptions to our information technology systems and data security. Any significant system or network disruption, including, but not limited to, new system implementations, computer viruses, security breaches, phishing, spoofing, cyberattacks, facility issues or energy blackouts could have a material adverse impact on our operations and results of operations. These incidents, which might be related to industrial or other espionage, include covertly introducing malware and spyware to our computers and networks (or to an electronic system operated by a third party for our benefit) and impersonating authorized users, among others. Such a network disruption could result in a loss of the confidentiality of our intellectual property or the release of sensitive competitive information or customer, supplier or employee personal data. Any loss of such information could harm our competitive position, result in a loss of customer confidence, and cause us to incur significant costs to remedy the damages caused by the disruptions or security breaches. We have implemented protective measures to prevent against and limit the effects of system or network disruptions, but there can be no assurance that such measures will be sufficient to prevent or limit the damage from any disruptions and any such disruption could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. We are subject to numerous laws and regulations regarding privacy and data protection. The scope of these laws and regulations is evolving rapidly and is subject to differing interpretations, and thus may be inconsistent among jurisdictions. Such laws and regulations have resulted and will continue to result in significantly greater compliance burdens and costs for us. Third-party service providers, such as foundries, subcontractors, distributors, and vendors have access to certain portions of our sensitive data. In the event that these service providers do not properly safeguard our data that they hold, security breaches and loss of our data could result. Any such loss of data by our third-party service providers could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Future acquisitions could require us to issue additional indebtedness or equity. If we were to undertake a substantial acquisition for cash, the acquisition would likely need to be financed in part through bank borrowings or the issuance of public or private debt. This acquisition financing would likely decrease our ratio of earnings to fixed charges and adversely affect other leverage criteria. Under our credit facility, we are required to obtain the lenders consent for certain additional debt financing and to comply with other covenants including the application of specific financial ratios. We cannot make any assurances that the necessary acquisition financing would be available to us on acceptable terms if and when required. If we were to undertake an acquisition for equity, the acquisition may have a dilutive effect on the interests of the holders of our common stock. We may experience significant variability in our quarterly and annual effective tax rate which would affect our reported net income. We operate in a global environment with significant operations in various locations outside the United States. Our effective income tax rate is the result of the income tax rates in the various locations where we operate. Our mix of income and losses in these locations affects our effective tax rate. Variability in the mix and profitability of domestic and international activities, identification and resolution of various tax uncertainties, changes in tax laws and rates, and the extent to which we are able to realize net operating loss and other carryforwards included in deferred tax assets and avoid potential adverse outcomes included in deferred tax liabilities, among other matters, may significantly affect our effective income tax rate in the future. A relative increase in income in higher tax rate jurisdictions increases our effective tax rate and thus decreases net income. Similarly, generating losses in tax jurisdictions for which no benefits are available also increases our effective income tax rate. Our effective income tax rate may also be impacted by the recognition of discrete income tax items, such as required adjustments to our liabilities for uncertain tax positions or our deferred tax asset valuation allowance. A significant increase in our effective income tax rate could have a material adverse impact on our earnings. Our intangible assets may become impaired. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized but rather are tested for impairment at least annually. These tests are performed more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the assets might be impaired. The testing of assets for impairment requires us to make significant estimates about our future events, including our performance and projected cash flows, as well as other assumptions. These estimates can be affected by numerous factors, including developments in the global economic environment, including the prospect of higher interest rates, market capitalization declines, developments in regulatory, industry and market conditions, changes in business operations, inability to effectively integrate acquired businesses, changes in competition, or changes in technologies. Any changes in key assumptions, or actual performance compared with key assumptions, about our business and its future prospects could affect the fair value of one or more of our assets, which may result in an impairment charge. The acquisitions of MaxPower Semiconductor, Inc. and the Newport wafer fab, as well as the planned capacity expansions at Itzehoe and Newport, are long-term investments which were not expected to generate significant income or cash flows in the near-term, but should greatly enhance the long-term position of our MOSFETs business. Such investments have significantly increased the net asset base of our MOSFETs business without a corresponding increase in current income or cash flows. We performed a quantitative assessment of each of our reporting units as of September 28, 2024 and determined that the estimated fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its carrying value, although the MOSFETs reporting units fair value exceeded its carrying value by less than 10%. Several factors, including a further decrease in our stock price, a further increase in the asset base, and other negative internal and external factors, required us to test our MOSFETs goodwill for impairment again in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2024. As a result, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $66.5 million to write-off the goodwill of the MOSFETs reporting unit. If we are not able to achieve our anticipated results or our stock price decreases further, the fair value of our other reporting units would be adversely affected, which may result in future impairment. There is $179.0 million of goodwill remaining on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2024. Any impairment charges would adversely affect our results of operations in the periods an impairment is recognized. 20 Regulatory and compliance related risks Future changes in our environmental liability and compliance obligations may harm our ability to operate or increase our costs. Our operations, products and/or product packaging are subject to, among other matters, environmental laws and regulations governing, among other matters, air emissions, wastewater discharges, the handling, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances, wastes and certain chemicals used or generated in our manufacturing processes, employee health and safety labeling or other notifications with respect to the content or other aspects of our processes, products or packaging, restrictions on the use of certain materials in or on design aspects of our products or product packaging, and responsibility for disposal of products or product packaging. We establish reserves for specifically identified potential environmental liabilities. Nevertheless, we have in the past and may in the future inherit certain pre-existing environmental liabilities, generally based on successor liability doctrines, or otherwise incur environmental liabilities. We are involved in remediation programs and related litigation at various current and former properties and at third-party disposal sites both within and outside of the United States, including involvement as a potentially responsible party at Superfund sites. Although we have never been involved in any environmental matter that has had a material adverse impact on our overall operations, there can be no assurance that in connection with any past or future acquisition, future developments, including related to our remediation programs, or otherwise, we will not be obligated to address environmental matters that could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, more stringent environmental laws and regulations may be enacted in the future, and we cannot presently determine the modifications, if any, in our operations that any such future regulations might require, or the cost of compliance with current and future laws and regulations. In order to resolve liabilities at various sites, we have entered into various administrative orders and consent decrees, some of which may be, under certain conditions, reopened or subject to renegotiation. Our products are sold to or used in goods sold to the U.S. government and other governments. By virtue of such sales, we are subject to various regulatory requirements and risks in the event of non-compliance. We sell products under prime and subprime contracts with the U.S. government and other governments. Many of these products are used in military applications. Government contractors must comply with specific procurement regulations and other requirements. These requirements, although customary in government contracts, impact our performance and compliance costs. Failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could result in contract modifications or termination, and the assessment of penalties and fines, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could also lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. Among the causes for debarment are violations of various statutes, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, government security regulations, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records and the recording of costs, and foreign corruption. The termination of a government contract as a result of any of these acts could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition and could have a negative impact on our reputation and ability to procure other government contracts in the future. We have qualified certain of our products under various military specifications approved and monitored by the United States Defense Electronic Supply Center and under certain European military specifications. These products are assigned certain classification levels. In order to maintain the classification level of a product, we must continuously perform tests on the products and the results of these tests must be reported to governmental agencies. If a product fails to meet the requirements of the applicable classification level, its classification may be reduced to a lower level. A decrease in the classification level for a product with a military application could have an adverse impact on the net revenues and earnings attributable to that product. Our credit facility restricts our current and future operations and requires compliance with certain financial covenants. Our credit facility includes restrictions on, among other things, incurring indebtedness, incurring liens on assets, making investments and acquisitions, making asset sales, and paying cash dividends and making other restricted payments. Our credit facility also requires us to comply with other covenants, including the maintenance of specific financial ratios. If we are not in compliance with all of such covenants, the credit facility could be terminated by the lenders, and all amounts outstanding pursuant to the credit facility could become immediately payable. Additionally, our convertible senior notes due 2030 have cross-default provisions that could accelerate repayment in the event the indebtedness under the credit facility is accelerated. Risks associated with our operations outside the United States We are subject to the risks of political, economic, and military instability in countries outside the United States in which we operate. We have substantial operations outside the United States, and approximately 74% of our revenues during 2024 were derived from sales to customers outside the United States. Certain of our assets are located, and certain of our products are produced, in countries which are subject to risks of social, political, economic, and military instability. This instability could result in wars, riots, nationalization of industry, currency fluctuation, and labor unrest. These conditions could have an adverse impact on our ability to operate in these regions and, depending on the extent and severity of these conditions, could materially and adversely affect our overall financial condition, results of operations, and our ability to access our liquidity. Our business has been in operation in Israel for 54 years, where we have substantial manufacturing operations. Although we have never experienced any material interruption in our operations attributable to these factors, in spite of several Middle East crises, including the recent war with Hamas, our financial condition and results of operations might be adversely affected if events were to occur in the Middle East that interfered with our operations in Israel. Our global operations are subject to extensive anti-corruption laws and other regulations. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar foreign anti-corruption laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments or providing anything of value to improperly influence foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, or obtaining an unfair advantage. Recent years have seen a substantial increase in the global enforcement of anti-corruption laws. Our continued operation and expansion outside the United States, including in developing countries, could increase the risk of such violations or violations under other regulations relating to limitations on or licenses required for sales made to customers located in certain countries. Violations of these laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, could disrupt our business, and result in a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and results of operations or financial condition. 21 We attempt to improve profitability by controlling labor costs, but these activities could result in labor unrest or considerable expense. Historically, our primary labor cost controlling strategy was to transfer manufacturing operations to countries with lower production costs, such as the Dominican Republic, India, Malaysia, Mexico, the Peoples Republic of China, and the Philippines. We believe that our manufacturing footprint is suitable to serve our customers and end markets, while maintaining lower manufacturing costs. We do not anticipate further transferring any significant existing operations to lower-labor-cost countries; however, acquired operations may be transferred to lower-labor-cost countries when integrated into Vishay. Currently, our primary labor cost controlling strategy involves reducing hours and limiting the use of subcontractors and foundries when demand for our products decreases. Shifting operations to lower-labor-cost countries, reducing hours, or limiting the use of subcontractors and foundries could result in production inefficiencies, higher costs, and/or strikes or other types of labor unrest. We are subject to foreign currency exchange rate risks which may impact our results of operations. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks, particularly due to market values of transactions in currencies other than the functional currencies of certain subsidiaries. From time to time, we utilize forward contracts to hedge a portion of projected cash flows from these exposures. Our significant foreign subsidiaries are located in Germany, Israel, the United Kingdom, and Asia. We finance our operations in Europe and certain locations in Asia in local currencies. Our operations in Israel, the United Kingdom, and most significant locations in Asia are largely financed in U.S. dollars, but these subsidiaries also have significant transactions in local currencies. Our exposure to foreign currency risk is mitigated to the extent that the costs incurred and the revenues earned in a particular currency offset one another. Our exposure to foreign currency risk is more pronounced in situations where, for example, production labor costs are predominantly paid in local currencies while the sales revenue for those products is denominated in U.S. dollars. This is particularly the case for products produced in Israel, the United Kingdom, the Czech Republic, and China. A change in the mix of the currencies in which we transact our business could have a material effect on results of operations. Furthermore, the timing of cash receipts and disbursements could have a material effect on our results of operations, particularly if there are significant changes in exchange rates in a short period of time. Most of our operating cash is generated by our non-U.S. subsidiaries, and our U.S. parent company and U.S. subsidiaries have significant payment obligations. We generate a significant amount of cash and profits from our non-U.S. subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2024, substantially all of our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments were held by subsidiaries outside of the United States. Our revolving credit facility provides us with additional U.S. liquidity. U.S. tax obligations, cash dividends to stockholders, share repurchases, additional convertible debt repurchases, and principal and interest payments on our debt instruments need to be paid by our U.S. parent company, Vishay Intertechnology, Inc. A U.S.-domiciled subsidiary is funding the expansion and operations of the Newport wafer fabrication facility. Our U.S. subsidiaries have other operating cash needs. If our U.S. cash and cash equivalents and short-term investment and other liquidity sources are inadequate to satisfy these obligations, we may be required to repatriate additional cash to the United States and would be required to accrue and pay additional taxes. If we are unable to repatriate adequate cash to the United States to satisfy these obligations, it could materially and adversely affect our overall financial condition, results of operations and our liquidity. Changes in U.S. trade policies, and related factors beyond our control, may adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our business is subject to risks associated with U.S. and foreign legislation and regulations relating to imports, including quotas, duties, tariffs or taxes, and other import charges or restrictions, which could adversely affect our operations and our ability to import products. The U.S. has taken actions that impact U.S. trade with China, including restricting the export of certain goods and equipment to China, imposing tariffs on certain goods manufactured in China and imported into the U.S., including certain of our products. The U.S. has also threatened to impose tariffs on certain goods manufactured in Mexico and other countries. Such actions may impact our competitiveness and adversely affect the demand for these products, or if those costs cannot be passed on to our customers, could adversely impact our results of operations for affected segments and the Company as a whole. Further changes in U.S. trade policy could trigger additional retaliatory actions by affected countries. If these consequences are realized, it could result in a general economic downturn or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks related to our capital structure The holders of our Class B common stock have effective voting control of our company, giving them the effective ability to prevent a change in control transaction. We have two classes of common stock: common stock and Class B common stock. The holders of common stock are entitled to one vote for each share held, while the holders of Class B common stock are entitled to 10 votes for each share held. At December 31, 2024, the holders of Class B common stock held approximately 49.4% of the voting power of the Company. The ownership of Class B common stock is highly concentrated, and holders of Class B common stock effectively can cause the election of directors and approve other actions as stockholders. Mrs. Ruta Zandman (a member of our Board of Directors) controls the voting of, solely or on a shared basis with Marc Zandman (our Executive Chairman) and Ziv Shoshani (a member of our Board of Directors), approximately 89.7% of our Class B common stock and 44.4% of the total voting power of our capital stock as of December 31, 2024. Holders of our Class B common stock may act in ways that are contrary to, or not in the best interests of, holders of our common stock. The voting rights of the holders of our Class B common stock effectively give such holders the ability to prevent transactions that would result in a change in control of us, including transactions in which holders of our common stock might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the then-current market price. 22 Our acquisition strategy could be impeded if our Board of Directors were reluctant to authorize the issuance of substantial additional shares. Our overall long-term business strategy has historically included a strong focus on acquisitions financed alternatively through cash on hand or the incurrence of indebtedness. We may in the future be presented with attractive investment or strategic opportunities that, because of their size and our financial condition at the time, would require the issuance of substantial additional amounts of our common stock. If such opportunities were to arise, our Board of Directors may consider the potentially dilutive effect on the interests and voting power of our existing stockholders, including our Class B stockholders, and may therefore be reluctant to authorize the issuance of additional shares. Any such reluctance could impede our ability to complete certain transactions. Our outstanding convertible debt instruments may impact the trading price of our common stock. We believe that many investors in, and potential purchasers of, convertible debt instruments employ, or seek to employ, a convertible arbitrage strategy with respect to these instruments. Investors that employ a convertible arbitrage strategy with respect to convertible debt instruments typically implement that strategy by selling short the common stock underlying the convertible instrument and dynamically adjusting their short position while they hold the instrument. The implementation of this strategy by investors in our convertible debt instruments, as well as related market regulatory actions, could have a significant impact on the trading prices of our common stock, and the trading prices and liquidity of our convertible debt instruments. The price of our common stock and our convertible debt instruments could also be affected by possible sales of our common stock by investors who view our convertible debt instruments as more attractive means of equity participation in us. Conversion of our outstanding 2025 Notes and 2030 Notes may dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their notes. The conversion of some or all of our outstanding 2.25% convertible senior notes due 2025 (the "2025 Notes") or our outstanding 2.25% convertible senior notes due 2030 (the "2030 Notes") may dilute the ownership interests of our existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to settle conversions of our outstanding 2025 Notes and 2030 Notes in cash or to repurchase the notes upon a fundamental change or on a repurchase date, as applicable, and our current debt contains, and our future debt may contain, limitations on our ability to pay cash upon conversion or repurchase of the 2025 Notes or 2030 Notes. Holders of our outstanding 2025 Notes and 2030 Notes have the right to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their 2025 Notes or 2030 Notes, as the case may be, upon the occurrence of a fundamental change at a fundamental change repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 2025 Notes or 2030 Notes, as the case may be, to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. In addition, upon conversion of the 2030 Notes, we will be required to make cash payments for each $1,000 in principal amount of 2030 Notes converted of at least the lesser of $1,000 and the sum of the daily conversion values as described in the indenture governing the 2030 Notes. Our outstanding 2025 Notes contain similar provisions concerning the holders rights to require us to repurchase their 2025 Notes upon a fundamental change and to pay cash to settle conversions of their 2025 Notes. However, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make repurchases of the 2030 Notes or the 2025 Notes surrendered therefor or notes being converted. In addition, our ability to repurchase the 2025 Notes or the 2030 Notes or to pay cash upon conversions of the 2025 Notes or 2030 Notes may be limited by law, by regulatory authority or by agreements governing our existing and future indebtedness, as described below. For example, our credit facility in effect from time to time may prohibit us from making any cash payments on the conversion or repurchase of the 2025 Notes or the 2030 Notes, as the case may be, upon a fundamental change repurchase if, after giving effect to such conversion or repurchase (and any additional indebtedness incurred in connection with such conversion or a repurchase), we would not be in pro forma compliance with the applicable financial covenants under that facility. Any new credit facility into which we may enter may have similar restrictions unless certain conditions are met. Our failure to make cash payments upon the conversion or repurchase of the 2025 Notes or the 2030 Notes, as the case may be, as required under the terms of the applicable indenture governing such notes would permit holders of the 2025 Notes or the 2030 Notes, as the case may be, to accelerate our obligations under the 2025 Notes or the 2030 Notes, as the case may be. Our failure to repurchase the 2025 Notes or 2030 Notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the applicable indenture or to pay any cash payable on future conversions of the 2025 Notes or the 2030 Notes as required by the applicable indenture would constitute a default under such indenture. A default under such indenture or the fundamental change itself could also lead to a default under agreements governing our existing and future indebtedness, including our credit facility. If the repayment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase the notes or make cash payments upon conversions thereof. The repurchase of $53 million principal amount of the 2025 Notes in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2024 reduces the risk associated with the 2025 Notes. The conditional conversion feature of our outstanding 2030 Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. In the event the conditional conversion feature of the 2030 Notes is triggered, holders of such notes will be entitled to convert the notes at any time during specified periods at their option. If one or more holders elect to convert their notes, we would be required to settle any converted principal through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital. 23 Certain provisions in the indentures governing the 2025 Notes and 2030 Notes could delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial takeover or takeover attempt of us. Certain provisions in the 2025 Notes and 2030 Notes and the applicable indenture could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. For example, if a takeover would constitute a fundamental change, holders of the notes will have the right to require us to repurchase their notes in cash. In addition, if a takeover constitutes a make-whole fundamental change, we may be required to increase the conversion rate for holders who convert their notes in connection with such takeover. In either case, and in other cases, our obligations under the notes and the applicable indenture could increase the cost of acquiring us or otherwise discourage a third party from acquiring us or removing incumbent management, including in a transaction that holders of the notes or holders of our common stock may view as favorable. The capped call transactions may affect the market price of our common stock. In connection with the pricing of, and the initial purchasers exercise in full of their option to purchase additional, 2030 Notes, we entered into capped call transactions with the option counterparties. The capped call transactions are expected generally to reduce potential dilution to our common stock upon conversion of any 2030 Notes and to offset any cash payments made in excess of the principal amount of converted 2030 Notes, as the case may be, with such reduction and/or offset subject to a cap. In connection with establishing their initial hedges of the capped call transactions, we expect the option counterparties or their respective affiliates to have purchased shares of our common stock and/or entered into various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock concurrently with or shortly after the pricing of the 2030 Notes. In addition, the option counterparties and/or their respective affiliates may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivatives with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions following the pricing of the 2030 Notes and prior to the maturity of the 2030 Notes (and are likely to do so on each exercise date for the capped call transactions or following any termination of any portion of the capped call transactions in connection with any repurchase, redemption or early conversion of the 2030 Notes). This activity could cause or avoid an increase or decrease in the market price of our common stock. In addition, if any such capped call transactions fail to become effective, the option counterparties or their respective affiliates may unwind their hedge positions with respect to our common stock, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. We do not make any representation or prediction as to the direction or magnitude of any potential effect that the transactions described above may have on the price of our common stock. In addition, we do not make any representation that the option counterparties will engage in these transactions or that these transactions, once commenced, will not be discontinued without notice. We are subject to counterparty risk with respect to the capped call transactions. The option counterparties are financial institutions, and we will be subject to the risk that any or all of them might default under the capped call transactions. Our exposure to the credit risk of the option counterparties will not be secured by any collateral. Past global economic conditions have resulted in the actual or perceived failure or financial difficulties of many financial institutions. If an option counterparty becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at that time under the capped call transactions with such option counterparty. Our exposure will depend on many factors but, generally, an increase in our exposure will be correlated to an increase in the market price and in the volatility of our common stock. In addition, upon a default by an option counterparty, we may suffer more dilution than we currently anticipate with respect to our common stock. We can provide no assurance as to the financial stability or viability of the option counterparties. Anti-takeover defenses in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws and under Delaware law may impede or discourage a merger, a takeover attempt or other business combinations, which could also reduce the market price of our common stock. We are a Delaware corporation, and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws also contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. These provisions could also make it difficult for stockholders to elect directors that are not nominated by the current members of our Board of Directors or take other corporate actions, including effecting changes in our management. These provisions include: the provision that our Class B common stock is generally entitled to ten votes per share, while our common stock is entitled to one vote per share, enabling the holders of our Class B common stock to effectively control the outcome of substantially all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including the election of directors and change of control transactions; the provision establishing a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms and the provision that a director may be removed only for cause, each of which could delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our board of directors; the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer; the right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of our board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the directors or by any officer instructed by the directors to call the meeting, which could delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; and the ability of our board of directors, by majority vote, to amend the bylaws, which may allow our board of directors to take additional actions to prevent an unsolicited takeover and inhibit the ability of an acquirer to amend the bylaws to facilitate an unsolicited takeover attempt. 24 In addition, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. This statute prohibits a Delaware corporation listed on a national securities exchange from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder (generally a person who, together with its affiliates, owns or within the last three years has owned 15% or more of our voting stock subject to certain exceptions) for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. The application of Section 203 also could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us. Any of these provisions could, under certain circumstances, depress the market price of our common stock. The ability of our board of directors or a committee thereof to create and issue a new series of preferred stock and certain provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could impede a merger, takeover attempt or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market price of our common stock. Risks related to the spin-off of the Vishay Precision Group Vishay Precision Group is using the Vishayname under license from us, which could result in product and market confusion or the loss of certain of our rights to the Vishay name. VPG has a worldwide, perpetual and royalty-free license from us to use the Vishay markas part of its corporate name and in connection with the manufacture, sale, and marketing of the products and services that comprise its measurements and foil resistors businesses. The license of the Vishay name to VPG is important to VPG because the success of VPG depends on the reputation of the Vishay brand for these products and services built over many years. Nonetheless, there exists the risk that the use by VPG could cause confusion in the marketplace over the products of the two companies, that any negative publicity associated with a product or service of VPG following the spin-off could be mistakenly attributed to our company or that we could lose our own rights to the Vishay mark if we fail to impose sufficient controls on VPGs use of the mark. General Risk Factors In addition to the risks relating specifically to our business, a variety of other factors relating to general conditions could cause actual results, performance, or achievements to differ materially from those expressed in any of our forward-looking statements. These factors include: overall economic and business conditions; competitive factors in the industries in which we conduct our business; changes in governmental regulation; changes in tax requirements, including tax rate changes, new tax laws, and revised tax law interpretations; changes in GAAP or interpretations of GAAP by governmental agencies and self-regulatory groups; interest rate fluctuations, foreign currency rate fluctuations, and other capital market conditions; and economic and political conditions in international markets, including governmental changes and restrictions on the ability to transfer capital across borders. Our common stock, traded on the New York Stock Exchange, has in the past experienced, and may continue to experience, significant fluctuations in price and volume. We believe that the financial performance and activities of other publicly traded companies in the electronic component industry could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially without regard to our operating performance. We operate in a continually changing business environment, and new factors emerge from time to time. Other unknown and unpredictable factors also could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition and results of operations. 25 Item 1B.UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 1C.CYBERSECURITY We recognize the importance of assessing, identifying, and managing material risks associated with cybersecurity threats. These risks include, among other things: operational risks, intellectual property theft, fraud, extortion, harm to employees or customers and violation of data privacy or security laws. We are committed to maintaining robust governance and oversight of these risks and to implementing mechanisms, controls, technologies, and processes designed to help us assess, identify, and manage these risks. While we have not, as of the date of this Form 10-K, experienced a cybersecurity threat or incident that resulted in a material adverse impact to our business or operations, there can be no guarantee that we will not experience such an incident in the future.Such incidents, whether or not successful, could result in us incurring significant costs related to, for example, rebuilding our internal systems, writing down inventory value, implementing additional threat protection measures, defending against litigation, responding to regulatory inquiries or actions, paying damages, providing customers with incentives to maintain a business relationship with us, or taking other remedial steps with respect to third parties, as well as incurring significant reputational harm. In addition, these threats are constantly evolving, thereby increasing the difficulty of successfully defending against them or implementing adequate preventative measures. Based on media reports and other surveys, we believe there is a general increase in cyberattack volume, frequency, and sophistication. We have experienced the same in our own business. We seek to detect and investigate unauthorized attempts and attacks against our network and to prevent their occurrence and recurrence where practicable through changes or updates to our internal processes and tools; however, we remain potentially vulnerable to known or unknown threats. In some instances, we, our suppliers, and our customers can be unaware of a threat or incident or its magnitude and effects. Further, there is increasing regulation regarding responses to cybersecurity incidents, including reporting to regulators, which could subject us to additional liability and reputational harm. See "Risk Factors" for more information on our cybersecurity risks. We aim to incorporate industry best practices throughout our cybersecurity program. Identifying and assessing cybersecurity risk is integrated into our overall risk management program. Our cybersecurity strategy focuses on implementing effective and efficient controls, technologies, and other processes to assess, identify, and manage material cybersecurity risks.Our cybersecurity program is designed to be aligned with applicable industry standards and is tested annually by independent third-party consultants.We have processes in place to assess, identify, manage, and address material cybersecurity threats and incidents. These include, among other things: annual and ongoing security awareness training for employees; mechanisms to detect and monitor unusual network activity; and containment and incident response tools. We monitor issues that are internally discovered or externally reported that may affect us, and have processes to assess those issues for potential cybersecurity impact or risk. Cybersecurity is an important part of our risk management processes and an area of focus for our Board and management. Our Audit Committee is responsible for the oversight of risks from cybersecurity threats. Members of the Audit Committee receive updates on at least an annual basis from senior management, including leaders from our Information Technology, Internal Audit, and Legal teams regarding matters of cybersecurity. This includes existing and new cybersecurity risks, status on how management is addressing and/or mitigating those risks, cybersecurity and data privacy incidents (if any) and status on key information security initiatives. Our Board members also engage in ad hoc conversations with management on cybersecurity-related news events and discuss any updates to our cybersecurity risk management and strategy programs. Our cybersecurity risk management and strategy processes are overseen by leaders from our Information Technology, Internal Audit, and Legal teams. Such individuals have an average of over 20 years of prior work experience in various roles involving information technology, security, auditing, legal, compliance, systems and programming.These individuals are informed about, and monitor the prevention, mitigation, detection and remediation of cybersecurity incidents through their management of, and participation in, the cybersecurity risk management and strategy processes described above, including the operation of our incident response plan, and report to the Audit Committee on any appropriate items. 26 Item 2.PROPERTIES At December 31, 2024, our business had 60 manufacturing locations. Our manufacturing facilities include owned and leased locations. Some locations include both owned and leased facilities in the same location. The list of manufacturing facilities below excludes former manufacturing facilities that are not presently used for manufacturing activities. In the opinion of management, our properties and equipment generally are in good operating condition and are adequate for our present needs. Owning many of our manufacturing facilities provides us meaningful financial and operating benefits, including long-term stability and a necessary buffer for economic downturns. We do not anticipate difficulty in renewing existing leases as they expire or in finding alternative facilities. The principal locations of our owned manufacturing facilities, along with available space including administrative offices, are as follows: Owned Locations Business Segment Approx. Available Space (Square Feet) United States Columbus, NE Resistors 201,000 Bennington, VT Capacitors 64,000 Yankton, SD Inductors 60,000 Warwick, RI Resistors 56,000 Niagara Falls, NY Resistors 34,000 Marshall, MN Inductors 22,000 Non-U.S. Vocklabruck, Austria Diodes 100,000 People's Republic of China Tianjin Diodes 397,000 Shanghai Diodes 195,000 Xi'an Diodes 133,000 Czech Republic Blatna Resistors and Capacitors 276,000 Dolni Rychnov Resistors and Capacitors 183,000 Prachatice Capacitors 92,000 Volary Resistors 35,000 France Nice Resistors 221,000 Chateau Gontier Resistors 82,000 Hyeres Resistors 59,000 Germany Selb Resistors and Capacitors 472,000 Heide Resistors 264,000 Erndtebrueck Capacitors 94,000 Landshut Capacitors 75,000 Fichtelberg Resistors 36,000 Budapest, Hungary Diodes 101,000 Loni, India Resistors and Capacitors 405,000 Israel Dimona Resistors and Capacitors 404,000 Migdal Ha'Emek Capacitors 288,000 Be'er Sheva Resistors, Inductors and Capacitors 276,000 Turin, Italy Diodes 102,000 Miharu, Japan Capacitors 165,000 Melaka, Malaysia Optoelectronic Components 156,000 Juarez, Mexico Resistors 75,000 Famalicao, Portugal Capacitors 222,000 Republic of China (Taiwan) Taipei Diodes 366,000 Kaohsiung MOSFETs 105,000 Newport, South Wales, United Kingdom MOSFETs 439,000 27 The principal locations of our leased manufacturing facilities, along with available space including administrative offices, are as follows: Leased Locations Business Segment Approx. Available Space (Square Feet) United States Columbus, NE Resistors 87,000 Attleboro, MA Resistors 40,000 Carson City, NV Resistors 40,000 Ontario, CA Resistors 38,000 Dover, NH Inductors 35,000 East Windsor, CT Resistors 30,000 Hollis, NH Resistors 25,000 Fremont, CA Resistors 18,000 Glendale, WI Resistors 14,000 Hudson, MA Resistors 13,000 Montevideo, MN Inductors 11,000 Duluth, MN Inductors 10,000 Non-U.S. Klagenfurt, Austria Capacitors 150,000 Peoples Republic of China Danshui Capacitors, Inductors, and Resistors 446,000 Shanghai MOSFETs 300,000 Shatian Capacitors and Resistors 218,000 Zhuhai Inductors 179,000 Long Xi Resistors 36,000 Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic Inductors 44,000 Germany Itzehoe MOSFETs 217,000 Heilbronn Diodes and Optoelectronic Components 163,000 Selb Capacitors 47,000 Mumbai, India Diodes 34,000 Mexico Juarez Resistors 314,000 Durango Inductors and Resistors 200,000 Mexicali Resistors 15,000 Manila, Philippines Optoelectronic Components 149,000 Kaohsiung, Republic of China (Taiwan) Diodes 130,000 28 Item 3.LEGAL PROCEEDINGS From time to time we are involved in routine litigation incidental to our business. Management believes that such matters, either individually or in the aggregate, should not have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. Intellectual Property Matters We are engaged in discussions with various parties regarding patent licensing and cross patent licensing issues. In addition, we have observed that in the current business environment, electronic component and semiconductor companies have become more aggressive in asserting and defending patent claims against competitors. When we believe other companies are misappropriating our intellectual property rights, we vigorously enforce those rights through legal action, and we intend to continue to do so. Environmental Matters Vishay is involved in environmental remediation programs at various sites currently or formerly owned by Vishay and its subsidiaries both within and outside of the U.S., in addition to involvement as a potentially responsible party (PRP) at Superfund sites. Certain obligations as a PRP have arisen in connection with business acquisitions. The remediation programs are on-going and the ultimate cost of site cleanup is difficult to predict given the uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations, and alternative cleanup methods. See also Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements. Vishay GSI, Inc. (VGSI), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, was a direct defendant in two separate, but related, litigation matters previously pending in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York: (1) Hicksville Water District v. United States Department of Energy, et al.; and (2) Hicksville Water District v. Alsy Manufacturing, Inc. These cases contain claims for recovery of response costs under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), and allege that a predecessors manufacturing operations in Hicksville, New York (the Site), between 1960 and 1993, impacted groundwater beneath and downgradient of the Site. The groundwater beneath and downgradient of the Site is part of the New Cassel/Hicksville Groundwater Contamination Site, which was added to the National Priorities List pursuant to CERCLA on September 15, 2011. VGSI and the Hicksville Water District reached a comprehensive settlement of both cases brought by the Hicksville Water District that resolves all past and future claims, known and unknown. Vishay admitted no liability and agreed to pay the Hicksville Water District $3 million. The settlement was approved by the court and both cases were dismissed in late July 2024. VGSI remains a defendant in one remaining case, 101 Frost Street Associates, L.P. v. United States Department of Energy et al., pending before the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York. The remaining case contains claims for recovery of response costs under CERCLA, and alleges that a predecessors manufacturing operations in the Site, between 1960 and 1993, impacted groundwater beneath and downgradient of the Site. VGSI is vigorously contesting plaintiffs claims and will aggressively prosecute its affirmative claims. Item 4.MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES None. 29 INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The following table sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of February 14, 2025: Name Age Positions Held Marc Zandman* 63 Executive Chairman of the Board, Chief Business Development Officer, and President, Vishay Israel Ltd. Joel Smejkal* 58 Chief Executive Officer, President, and Director David McConnell 58 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Roy Shoshani 51 Executive Vice President - Chief Operating Officer - Semiconductors and Chief Technical Officer Peter Henrici 69 Executive Vice President - Corporate Development Michael O'Sullivan 50 Executive Vice President - Chief Administrative and Legal Officer * Member of the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors. Marc Zandman was appointed Executive Chairman of the Board and Chief Business Development Officer effective June 5, 2011. Mr. Zandman has served as a Director of Vishay since 2001 and President of Vishay Israel Ltd. since 1998. Mr. Zandman previously was Vice Chairman of the Board from 2003 to June 2011, and Chief Administration Officer from 2007 to June 2011. Mr. Zandman was Group Vice President of Vishay Measurements Group from 2002 to 2004. Mr. Zandman has served in various other capacities with Vishay since 1984. He is the son of the late Dr. Felix Zandman, Vishays Founder. Mr. Zandman controls, on a shared basis with Ruta Zandman and Ziv Shoshani, approximately 35% of the total voting power of our capital stock as of December 31, 2024. He also serves on the Board of Directors of Vishay Precision Group, Inc., an independent, publicly-traded company spun-off from Vishay Intertechnology in 2010 (including as non-executive Chair from 2010 - 2022). Joel Smejkal was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer effective January 1, 2023. Mr. Smejkal served as Executive Vice President, Corporate Business Development from 2020-2022. He has held various positions of increasing responsibility since joining Vishay in 1990, including Executive Vice President, Business Head Passive Components (2017-2020) and Senior Vice President Global Distribution Sales (2012-2016). His experience with Vishay includes worldwide and divisional leadership roles in engineering, marketing, operations, and sales. David McConnell was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company effective March 1, 2024. Mr. McConnell has held various positions of increasing responsibility since joining Vishay in 1992, including Senior Vice President - Corporate Treasurer and Risk Management from 2016-2024, and responsibility for corporate treasury since 2011. Roy Shoshani was appointed Executive Vice President Chief Operating Officer Semiconductors and Chief Technical Officer effective January 13, 2025. Mr. Shoshani has held various positions of increasing responsibility since joining Vishay in 2004, including Executive Vice President Chief Technical Officer (2023-2025), Deputy to the Chief Technical Officer (2021-2022), Vice President Integrated Circuits Division (2009-2022), and Vice President R&D Semiconductors (2019-2021). Prior to joining Vishay, Mr. Shoshani worked for Harmonic. Mr. Shoshanis experience with Vishay includes divisional leadership roles in R&D, marketing, business development and operations. Peter Henrici was appointed Executive Vice President Corporate Development effective January 1, 2023 and has served as Corporate Secretary since 2012. Mr. Henrici has held various positions in marketing communications, investor relations, and corporate treasury departments since joining Vishay in 1998. Mr. Henrici has been responsible for corporate communications since 2005. Michael O'Sullivan was appointed Executive Vice President - Chief Administrative and Legal Officer effective January 1, 2024. Mr. OSullivan previously served as Corporate General Counsel since joining the Company in 2012. In July 2016, Mr. O'Sullivan was appointed Regional Country Manager - The Americas. Prior to joining Vishay, Mr. O'Sullivan worked as an in-house corporate attorney for a subsidiary of Koch Industries, Inc., and in private practice at DLA Piper. 30 PART II Item 5.MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol VSH. The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices for our common stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange composite tape for the indicated fiscal quarters. Holders of record of our common stock totaled approximately 1,000 at February 12, 2025. Because many of the shares of our common stock are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of stockholders, we are unable to estimate the total number of beneficial owners represented by these stockholders of record. In 2014, the Company's Board of Directors instituted a quarterly cash dividend program and declared the first cash dividend in the history of Vishay. Quarterly cash dividends have been paid in each quarter since the first fiscal quarter of 2014. We expect to continue to pay quarterly dividends, although the amount and timing of any future dividends remains subject to authorization of our Board of Directors. The following table sets forth, for the indicated periods, the high and low sales prices of our common stock and the quarterly cash dividends declared. Common stock price range Dividends declared 2024 2023 per share High Low High Low 2024 2023 Fourth quarter $ 20.15 $ 14.95 $ 25.22 $ 21.15 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 Third quarter $ 24.69 $ 17.42 $ 30.10 $ 24.03 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 Second quarter $ 24.19 $ 20.83 $ 29.66 $ 20.57 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 First quarter $ 23.92 $ 20.93 $ 24.48 $ 20.51 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 At February 12, 2025, we had outstanding 12,097,148 shares of Class B common stock, par value $0.10 per share, each of which entitles the holder to ten votes. The Class B common stock generally is not transferable except in certain very limited instances, and there is no market for those shares. The Class B common stock is convertible, at the option of the holder, into common stock on a share for share basis. As a result of the passing of our founder and former Executive Chairman, Dr. Felix Zandman, Mrs. Ruta Zandman (a member of our Board of Directors) controls the voting of, solely or on a shared basis with Marc Zandman (our Executive Chairman) and Ziv Shoshani (a member of our Board of Directors) approximately 89.7% of our Class B common stock and 44.4% of the total voting power of our capital stock as of December 31, 2024. Certain of our debt obligations contain restrictions as to the payment of cash dividends. See "Financial Condition, Liquidity, and Capital Resources" included in Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." In 2022, our Board of Directors adopted a Stockholder Return Policy that will remain in effect until such time as the Board votes to amend or rescind the policy. The Stockholder Return Policy calls for us to return a prescribed amount of cash flows on an annual basis. We intend to return such amounts directly, in the form of dividends, or indirectly, in the form of stock repurchases. We paid $54.7 million of dividends to stockholders and repurchased $50.4 million of our stock pursuant to the Stockholder Return Policy in 2024. To enable the operation of the Stockholder Return Policy, Vishay's Board of Directors approves the repurchase of a stated number of shares of common stock from time-to-time. As of September 28, 2024, approximately 1.2 million shares remained from the previous repurchase authorization of 8.5 million shares. On December 3, 2024, Vishay's Board of Directors approved the repurchase of an additional 3.0 million shares of common stock, to enable the operation of the Stockholder Return Policy for the foreseeable future. The following table provides information regarding repurchases of our common stock during the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2024: Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share (including commission) Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Program Total Dollar Amount Purchased Under the Program Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Program September 29 - October 26 479,969 $ 18.19 479,969 $ 8,728,358 700,084 October 27 - November 23 220,413 17.67 220,413 3,893,706 479,671 November 24 - December 31 - - - - 3,479,671 Total 700,382 $ 18.02 700,382 $ 12,622,064 3,479,671 In the fourth fiscal quarter of 2024, we repurchased $53.2 million of our convertible senior notes due 2025. The aggregate purchase price for the repurchases was $53.4 million. 31 Stock Performance Graph The line graph below compares the cumulative total stockholder return on Vishays common stock over a 5-year period with the returns on the Standard & Poors MidCap 400 Stock Index, the Standard & Poor's SmallCap 600 Index (of which Vishay is a component), the Standard & Poors 500 Stock Index, and the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index. The line graph assumes that $100 had been invested at December 31, 2019 and assumes that all dividends were reinvested. Base Years Ending December 31, Period Company Name / Index 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Vishay Intertechnology, Inc. 100 99.48 106.90 107.61 121.56 87.59 S&P 500 Index 100 118.40 152.39 124.79 157.59 197.02 S&P MidCap 400 Index 100 113.66 141.80 123.28 143.54 163.54 S&P SmallCap 600 Index 100 111.29 141.13 118.41 137.42 149.37 Philadelphia Semiconductor Index 100 153.66 219.51 142.94 238.72 287.31 Item 6.RESERVED Not applicable. 32 Item 7.MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This Management's Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) is intended to provide an understanding of Vishay's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows by focusing on changes in certain key measures from year to year. The MD&A should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes filed herewith, commencing on page F-1 of this report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, particularly in Item 1A. Risk Factors. Overview Vishay Intertechnology, Inc. ("Vishay," "we," "us," or "our") manufactures one of the worlds largest portfolios of discrete semiconductors and passive electronic components that are essential to innovative designs in the automotive, industrial, computing, consumer, telecommunications, military, aerospace, and medical markets. We operate in six segments based on product functionality: MOSFETs, Diodes, Optoelectronic Components, Resistors, Inductors, and Capacitors. We are focused on enhancing stockholder value by growing our business and improving earnings per share. Since 1985, we have pursued a business strategy of growth through focused research and development and acquisitions. We plan to continue to grow our business through intensified internal growth supplemented by opportunistic acquisitions, while maintaining a prudent capital structure. To drive growth and optimize stockholder value, we plan to capitalize on the mega trends of e-mobility, sustainability, and connectivity through initiatives. We are developing go-to-market strategies and investing in and expanding the key product lines for growth that we have identified. In addition, we are strategically expanding our outsourced production of commodity products to subcontractors. At the same time, we are enhancing our channel management while investing in internal resources by adding customer-facing engineers and filling gaps in technology and market coverage. Taken together, each of these initiatives supports our Think Customer First organizational structure. To increase our internal capacity, we had planned to invest approximately $435 million in 2024. The industry recovery has been slower than expected. Accordingly, we adjusted our timetable for investments for our new 12-inch wafer fab in Itzehoe, Germany beyond 2024 and invested $320 for capital expenditures in 2024. We remain committed to our long-term plan of increasing Vishay's capacity, to assure our customers of reliable volume as they scale. We have and will continue to modulate the amount and timing of our capital expenditures in response to order flow and the timing of customer demand and qualifications. The decreased lead time for equipment and the increased subcontractor capacity are also variables that allow us to adjust our capacity spending. On March 5, 2024, we completed the acquisition of Nexperias wafer fabrication facility and operations located in Newport, South Wales, U.K. for approximately $177.5 million in cash, net of cash acquired. The wafer fabrication facility is located on 28 acres and is an automotive-certified, 200mm semiconductor wafer fab with capacity to produce more than 30,000 wafers per month. We plan to position the facility as a manufacturing excellence center and use it as the home for MaxPower to further develop and scale our SiC MOSFETs and diodes capabilities. The facility has generated a net loss and we expect the facility to continue to generate a net loss while we invest in new equipment and qualify new products. In addition to enhancing stockholder value through growing our business, in 2022, our Board of Directors adopted a Stockholder Return Policy, which calls for us to return at least 70% of free cash flow, net of scheduled principal payments of long-term debt, on an annual basis. See further discussion in Stockholder Return Policy below. Our business and operating results have been and will continue to be impacted by worldwide economic conditions. Our revenues are dependent on end markets that are impacted by consumer and industrial demand, and our operating results can be adversely affected by reduced demand in those global markets. In this volatile economic environment, we continue to closely monitor our fixed costs, capital expenditure plans, inventory, and capital resources to respond to changing conditions and to ensure we have the management, business processes, and resources to meet our future needs. We believe we can react quickly and professionally to changes in demand to minimize manufacturing inefficiencies and excess inventory build in periods of decline and maximize opportunities in periods of growth. We implemented restructuring actions in the third fiscal quarter of 2024 designed to optimize our manufacturing footprint and streamline business decision making. We believe we have significant liquidity to withstand temporary disruptions in the economic environment. See additional information regarding our competitive strengths and key challenges as disclosed in Part I. We utilize several financial metrics, including net revenues, gross profit margin, segment operating income, end-of-period backlog, book-to-bill ratio, inventory turnover, change in average selling prices, net cash and short-term investments (debt), and free cash generation to evaluate the performance and assess the future direction of our business. See further discussion in Financial Metrics and Financial Condition, Liquidity, and Capital Resources below. The key financial metrics decreased in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2024 primarily due to the negative impacts of an on-going distributor inventory correction that resulted in lower orders. Net revenues and margins decreased versus the prior year period primarily due to lower volume and decreased average selling prices. Net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2024 were $2.938 billion, compared to net revenues of $3.402 billion and $3.497 billion for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The net loss attributable to Vishay stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2024 was $(31.2) million, or $(0.23) per share, compared to net earnings of $323.8 million, or $2.31 per diluted share, and $428.8 million, or $2.98 per diluted share, for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. We define adjusted net earnings as net earnings (loss) determined in accordance with GAAP adjusted for various items that management believes are not indicative of the intrinsic operating performance of our business. We define free cash as the cash flows generated from continuing operations less capital expenditures plus net proceeds from the sale of property and equipment. The reconciliations below include certain financial measures which are not recognized in accordance with GAAP, including adjusted net earnings, adjusted earnings per share, and free cash. These non-GAAP measures should not be viewed as alternatives to GAAP measures of performance or liquidity. Non-GAAP measures such as adjusted net earnings, adjusted earnings per share, and free cash do not have uniform definitions. These measures, as calculated by Vishay, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Management believes that adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share are meaningful because they provide insight with respect to our intrinsic operating results. Management believes that free cash is a meaningful measure of our ability to fund acquisitions, repay debt, and otherwise enhance stockholder value through stock repurchases or dividends. 33 Net earnings attributable to Vishay stockholders for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023, and 2022 include items affecting comparability. The items affecting comparability are (in thousands, except per share amounts): Years ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 GAAP net earnings (loss) attributable to Vishay stockholders $ (31,150 ) $ 323,820 $ 428,810 Reconciling items affecting gross profit: Impact of COVID-19 pandemic $ - $ - $ 6,661 Other reconciling items affecting operating income: Impairment of goodwill $ 66,487 $ - $ - Restructuring and severance costs 40,614 - - Impact of COVID-19 pandemic - - 546 Reconciling items affecting other income (expense): Loss on early extinguishment of debt $ - $ 18,874 $ - Reconciling items affecting tax expense (benefit): Effects of changes in uncertain tax positions $ - $ - $ (5,941 ) Effects of changes in valuation allowances - - (33,669 ) Effect of change in indefinite reversal assertion - - 59,642 Tax effects of pre-tax items above (10,299 ) (498 ) (1,802 ) Adjusted net earnings $ 65,652 $ 342,196 $ 454,247 Adjusted weighted average diluted shares outstanding 137,741 140,246 145,495 Adjusted earnings per diluted share $ 0.48 $ 2.44 $ 3.16 The following table reconciles gross profit by segment to consolidated gross profit. Direct costs of the COVID-19 pandemic are not allocated to the segments as the chief operating decision maker's evaluation of segment performance does not include these costs (in thousands): Years ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 MOSFETS $ 87,101 $ 259,386 $ 274,498 Diodes 121,162 175,621 198,105 Optoelectronic Components 38,252 62,226 102,787 Resistors 158,958 238,428 262,072 Inductors 107,080 112,414 104,349 Capacitors 113,739 126,418 123,839 Unallocated gross profit (loss) - - (6,661 ) Gross profit $ 626,292 $ 974,493 $ 1,058,989 Although the term "free cash" is not defined in GAAP, each of the elements used to calculate free cash is presented as a line item on the face of our consolidated statements of cash flows prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our free cash results are as follows (in thousands): Years ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Net cash provided by continuing operating activities $ 173,702 $ 365,703 $ 484,288 Proceeds from sale of property and equipment 3,015 1,156 1,198 Less: Capital expenditures (320,079 ) (329,410 ) (325,308 ) Free cash $ (143,362 ) $ 37,449 $ 160,178 Orders are lower due to a distributor inventory correction that took longer than expected and continued through 2024. The long-term outlook for our business remains strong, although our results are weaker than prior year results. Our free cash results were significantly impacted by the installment payments of the U.S. transition tax of $37.6 million in 2024, $27.7 million in 2023, and $14.8 million in 2022, respectively, and payments of foreign, withholding, and claw-back cash taxes of $15.0 million in 2024, $63.6 million in 2023, and $25.2 million in 2022 on foreign earnings of $105.0 million, $276.8 million, and $81.2 million (net of taxes) that were repatriated to the U.S. in 2024, 2023, and 2022, respectively. 34 Growth and Company Transformation Initiatives Effective January 1, 2023, a new executive leadership team, promoted from within, embarked on a new era at Vishay ("Vishay 3.0"). The new executive management team laid out a three-year plan to expand capacity to support our highest growth and highest return product lines and to position Vishay to be ready for the next phase of megatrends in e-mobility, sustainability, and connectivity. The year 2023 was generally seen as the staging year for this plan, and all elements of the plan have progressed throughout the organization. In 2024, many of these initiatives advanced and increased manufacturing capacity was available. Beginning in early 2025, we expect to be in a better position to capture the next step in the growing demand for electrification in our key end-markets. To focus this growth, we have identified product lines for growth across each reportable segment. Most of these product lines serve multiple end-market segments, applications, and business channels. We have developed go-to market strategies for each one of these product lines, concentrating our resources on improving the technical performance of certified and custom products, to better position Vishay to support the mega trends toward electrification and data communications. See the eight strategic levers being used to achieve our goals in "Key Business Strategies" in Item 1. All of this is being done as we implement organizational and structural change at Vishay, focused on a Think Customer First philosophy, and becoming a more responsive company. We are fostering collaboration internally and externally, particularly in the functions connected to customer programs. To facilitate that change internally, we re-designed our short- and long-term incentive plans to align the performance of about 1,000 key employees with Company growth and profitability objectives and stockholder interests. The equity-based plan was approved by our stockholders at our 2023 annual meeting. These Vishay 3.0 initiatives are the foundation for our ambitions to unleash the potential at Vishay, realizing the full value of our broad product portfolio and becoming a customer-first company, and for our goals of driving top line growth, expanding margins and optimizing returns. 35 Stockholder Return Policy In 2022, our Board of Directors adopted a Stockholder Return Policy, which calls for us to return at least 70% of free cash flow, net of scheduled principal payments of long-term debt, on an annual basis. We intend to return such amounts to stockholders directly, in the form of dividends, or indirectly, in the form of stock repurchases. The following table summarizes activity pursuant to this policy (in thousands): Years ended December 31, 2024 December 31, 2023 Dividends paid to stockholders $ 54,672 $ 55,626 Stock repurchases 50,406 78,684 Total $ 105,078 $ 134,310 We have determined that substantially all unremitted foreign earnings in Germany and Israel are no longer indefinitely reinvested. These indefinite reinvestment assertions provide greater access to our worldwide cash balances to fund our growth plan and our Stockholder Return Policy, but also negatively impact our effective tax rate. The structure of our Stockholder Return Policy enables us to allocate capital responsibly among our business, our lenders, and our stockholders. We will continue to invest in growth initiatives including key product line expansions, targeted R&D, and synergistic acquisitions. We have paid dividends each quarter since the first quarter of 2014, and the Stockholder Return Policy will remain in effect until such time as the Board votes to amend or rescind the policy. Implementation of the Stockholder Return Policy is subject to future declarations of dividends by the Board of Directors, market and business conditions, legal requirements, and other factors. The policy sets forth our intention, but does not obligate us to acquire any shares of common stock or declare any dividends, and the policy may be terminated or suspended at any time at our discretion, in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. 36 Financial Metrics We utilize several financial metrics to evaluate the performance and assess the future direction of our business. These key financial measures and metrics include net revenues, gross profit margin, operating margin, segment operating income, segment operating margin, end-of-period backlog, and the book-to-bill ratio. We also monitor changes in our inventory turnover and our or publicly available average selling prices (ASP). Gross profit margin is computed as gross profit as a percentage of net revenues. Gross profit is generally net revenues less costs of products sold, but also deducts certain other period costs, particularly losses on purchase commitments and inventory write-downs. Losses on purchase commitments and inventory write-downs have the impact of reducing gross profit margin in the period of the charge, but result in improved gross profit margins in subsequent periods by reducing costs of products sold as inventory is used. We also regularly evaluate gross profit by segment to assist in the analysis of consolidated gross profit. Gross profit margin and gross profit margin by segment are clearly a function of net revenues, but also reflect our cost management programs and our ability to contain fixed costs. Operating margin is computed as gross profit less operating expenses, expressed as a percentage of net revenues. Operating margin is clearly a function of net revenues, but also reflects our cost management programs and our ability to contain fixed costs. Our chief operating decision maker makes decisions, allocates resources, and evaluates business segment performance based on segment gross profit and segment operating income. Only dedicated, direct selling, general, and administrative ("SG&A") expenses of the segments are included in the calculation of segment operating income. We do not allocate certain SG&A expenses that are managed at the regional or corporate global level to our segments. Accordingly, segment operating income excludes these SG&A expenses that are not directly traceable to the segments. Segment operating income would also exclude costs not routinely used in the management of the segments in periods when those items are present, such as restructuring and severance costs, goodwill impairment charges, the direct impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, and other items affecting comparability. Segment operating income is clearly a function of net revenues, but also reflects our cost management programs and our ability to contain fixed costs. Segment operating margin is segment operating income expressed as a percentage of net revenues. End-of-period backlog is one indicator of future revenues. We include in our backlog only open orders that we expect to ship in the next twelve months. If demand falls below customers forecasts, or if customers do not control their inventory effectively, they may cancel or reschedule the shipments that are included in our backlog, in many instances without the payment of any penalty. Therefore, the backlog is not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for future periods. An important indicator of demand in our industry is the book-to-bill ratio, which is the ratio of the amount of product ordered during a period as compared with the product that we ship during that period. A book-to-bill ratio that is greater than one indicates that our backlog is building and that we are likely to see increasing revenues in future periods. Conversely, a book-to-bill ratio that is less than one is an indicator of declining demand and may foretell declining revenues. We focus on our inventory turnover as a measure of how well we are managing our inventory. We define inventory turnover for a financial reporting period as our costs of products sold for the four fiscal quarters ending on the last day of the reporting period divided by our average inventory (computed using each fiscal quarter-end balance) for this same period. A higher level of inventory turnover reflects more efficient use of our capital. Pricing in our industry can be volatile. Using our and publicly available data, we analyze trends and changes in average selling prices to evaluate likely future pricing. The erosion of average selling prices of established products is typical for semiconductor products. We attempt to offset this deterioration with ongoing cost reduction activities and new product introductions. Our specialty passive components are more resistant to average selling price erosion. All pricing is subject to governing market conditions and is independently set by us. 37 The quarter-to-quarter trends in these financial metrics can also be an important indicator of the likely direction of our business. The following table shows net revenues, gross profit margin, operating margin, end-of-period backlog, book-to-bill ratio, inventory turnover, and changes in ASP for our business as a whole during the five fiscal quarters beginning with the fourth fiscal quarter of 2023 through the fourth fiscal quarter of 2024 (dollars in thousands): 4th Quarter 2023 1st Quarter 2024 2nd Quarter 2024 3rd Quarter 2024 4th Quarter 2024 Net revenues $ 785,236 $ 746,279 $ 741,239 $ 735,353 $ 714,716 Gross profit margin 25.6 % 22.8 % 22.0 % 20.5 % 19.9 % Operating margin(1) 9.9 % 5.7 % 5.1 % (2.5 )% (7.9 )% End-of-period backlog $ 1,381,800 $ 1,253,400 $ 1,145,400 $ 1,075,800 $ 1,051,500 Book-to-bill ratio 0.75 0.82 0.86 0.88 1.01 Inventory turnover 3.6 3.5 3.4 3.4 3.3 Change in ASP vs. prior quarter (0.7 )% (2.5 )% (0.7 )% (1.0 )% (0.6 )% _______________ (1) Operating margin for the third fiscal quarter of 2024 includes $40.6 million of restructuring and severance expenses (see Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements). Operating margin for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2024 includes $66.5 million of goodwill impairment charges (see Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements). See Financial Metrics by Segment below for net revenues, book-to-bill ratio, and gross profit margin by segment. Revenues decreased versus the fourth fiscal quarter of 2023 and versus the prior fiscal quarter primarily due to lower sales volume and lower average selling prices. The book-to-bill ratio increased versus the prior fiscal quarter, but orders backlog were negatively impacted by the distributor inventory correction that began in 2022 and continued through 2024. We continue to increase manufacturing capacity for critical product lines. Average selling prices decreased versus the fourth fiscal quarter of 2023 and prior fiscal quarter. Gross profit margin decreased versus the prior fiscal quarter and prior year quarter primarily due to lower volume and decreased average selling prices. The book-to-bill ratio in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2024 increased to 1.01 versus 0.88 in the third fiscal quarter of 2024. 38 Financial Metrics by Segment The following table shows net revenues, book-to-bill ratio, gross profit margin, and segment operating margin broken out by segment for the five fiscal quarters beginning with the fourth fiscal quarter of 2023 through the fourth fiscal quarter of 2024 (dollars in thousands): 4th Quarter 2023 1st Quarter 2024 2nd Quarter 2024 3rd Quarter 2024 4th Quarter 2024 MOSFETs Net revenues $ 168,158 $ 153,173 $ 155,053 $ 147,134 $ 146,619 Book-to-bill ratio 0.62 0.68 0.79 0.84 0.98 Gross profit margin 27.3 % 16.6 % 13.9 % 11.7 % 15.6 % Segment operating margin 16.8 % 5.3 % 1.2 % (2.9 )% 0.8 % Diodes Net revenues $ 163,324 $ 149,130 $ 146,265 $ 145,183 $ 141,397 Book-to-bill ratio 0.61 0.72 0.85 0.74 1.00 Gross profit margin 24.1 % 21.7 % 21.2 % 20.1 % 20.2 % Segment operating margin 20.9 % 17.4 % 16.7 % 15.7 % 16.1 % Optoelectronic Components Net revenues $ 53,853 $ 49,199 $ 53,010 $ 63,227 $ 46,932 Book-to-bill ratio 0.59 0.89 0.82 0.77 1.00 Gross profit margin 12.1 % 14.2 % 26.8 % 18.3 % 11.7 % Segment operating margin 3.4 % 3.0 % 16.4 % 9.7 % 1.1 % Resistors Net revenues $ 198,022 $ 188,196 $ 179,498 $ 180,889 $ 177,031 Book-to-bill ratio 0.82 0.79 0.87 0.95 0.91 Gross profit margin 25.6 % 24.7 % 22.9 % 22.5 % 17.3 % Segment operating margin 22.0 % 20.3 % 18.3 % 17.9 % 12.7 % Inductors Net revenues $ 87,868 $ 88,651 $ 94,061 $ 90,253 $ 83,390 Book-to-bill ratio 0.91 0.96 0.97 0.83 1.01 Gross profit margin 33.4 % 30.2 % 30.1 % 30.3 % 29.6 % Segment operating margin 29.6 % 26.1 % 26.1 % 26.2 % 25.0 % Capacitors Net revenues $ 114,011 $ 117,930 $ 113,352 $ 108,667 $ 119,347 Book-to-bill ratio 0.95 1.03 0.87 1.10 1.21 Gross profit margin 25.3 % 27.4 % 23.5 % 22.9 % 25.1 % Segment operating margin 20.4 % 22.5 % 18.5 % 17.4 % 20.0 % _________ 39 Acquisition Activity As part of its growth strategy, the Company seeks to expand through targeted acquisitions of other manufacturers of electronic components. These acquisition targets include businesses that have established positions in major markets, reputations for product quality and reliability, and product lines with which the Company has substantial marketing and technical expertise. It also includes certain businesses that possess technologies which the Company expects to further develop and commercialize, such as MaxPower Semiconductor, Inc., acquired in 2022; businesses with well-developed technologies that the Company expects to grow using its manufacturing capabilities, capacity, and economies of scale to expand production and sell to its global customer base, such as Ametherm, Inc., acquired in 2024; and key niche suppliers to vertically integrate our supply chain, such as Birkelbach Kondensatortechnik GmbH ("Birkelbach"), acquired in 2024, and Centerline Technologies, LLC, acquired in 2023. To limit our financial exposure, we have implemented a policy not to pursue acquisitions if our post-acquisition debt would exceed 2.5x our pro forma earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA). For these purposes, we calculate pro forma EBITDA as the adjusted EBITDA of Vishay and the target for the trailing four fiscal quarters, with a pro forma adjustment for savings which management estimates would have been achieved had the target been acquired by Vishay at the beginning of the trailing four fiscal quarters. On March 5, 2024, we completed the acquisition of Nexperias wafer fabrication facility and operations located in Newport, South Wales, U.K. for approximately $177.5 million in cash, net of cash acquired. The wafer fabrication facility is located on 28 acres and is an automotive-certified, 200mm semiconductor wafer fab with capacity to produce more than 30,000 wafers per month. We plan to position the facility as a manufacturing excellence center and use it as the home for MaxPower to further develop and scale our SiC MOSFETs and diodes capabilities. The facility is currently generating a net loss and we expect the facility to continue to generate a net loss while we invest in new equipment and qualify new products. There is no assurance that we will be able to identify and acquire suitable acquisition candidates at price levels and on terms and conditions we consider acceptable. See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements. 40 Cost Management We place a strong emphasis on controlling our costs, and use various measures and metrics to evaluate our cost structure. We define variable costs as expenses that vary with respect to quantity produced. Fixed costs do not vary with respect to quantity produced over the relevant time period. Contributive margin is calculated as net revenue less variable costs. It may be expressed in dollars or as a percentage of net revenue. Management uses this measure to determine the amount of profit to be expected for any change in revenues. While these measures are typical cost accounting measures, none of these measures are recognized in accordance with GAAP. The classification of expenses as either variable or fixed is judgmental and other companies might classify such expenses differently. These measures, as calculated by Vishay, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. We closely monitor variable costs and seek to achieve the contributive margin in our business model. Over a period of many years, we have generally maintained a contributive margin of between 45% and 47% of revenues. The erosion of average selling prices, particularly of our semiconductor products, that is typical of our industry, and inflation negatively impact contributive margin and drive us to continually seek ways to reduce our variable costs. Our variable cost reduction efforts include increasing the efficiency in our production facilities by expending capital for automation, reducing materials costs, materials substitution, increasing wafer size and shrinking dies to maximize efficiency in our semiconductor production processes, and other yield improvement activities. Our cost management strategy also includes a focus on controlling fixed costs recorded as costs of products sold or selling, general, and administrative expenses and maintaining our break-even point (adjusted for acquisitions). We generally seek to limit increases in selling, general, and administrative expenses to the rate of inflation, excluding foreign currency exchange effects and substantially independent of sales volume changes. At constant fixed costs, we would expect each $1 million increase in revenues to increase our operating income by approximately $450,000 to $470,000. Sudden changes in the business conditions, however, may not allow us to quickly adapt our manufacturing capacity and cost structure. As the Company transforms, we are incurring certain costs which are reducing current profitability while positioning the Company for future long-term profitable growth. The acquisition of Nexperia's Newport fab in 2024 will enhance the manufacturing capacity and capabilities of our MOSFETs segment. The facility added significant depreciation and other costs to our MOSFETs segment. The facility is generating a loss and we expect it to continue to generate a loss while we invest in new equipment and qualify new products. Also beginning in 2023, we began making significant investments in capital expenditures primarily for capital expansion projects primarily outside of China, which will also increase depreciation expense. At the same time, we are focusing on increasing our technical resources, adding additional customer-facing engineers, and intensifying our activities in R&D. We have seen and expect to continue to see an increase in operating expenses over the next couple of years as we add engineering talents, fill gaps in our technology, and become a preferred supplier to more customers and more broadly sell our product portfolio. During 2023, we implemented the Vishay Intertechnology, Inc. 2023 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "2023 Plan") to enable us to recruit and retain highly qualified employees, directors, consultants and other service providers, provide them with an incentive for productivity, and create an opportunity for them to share in the growth and value of the Company. The 2023 Plan is the first broad-based stock compensation program at Vishay in over 20 years. This program increased operating expenses by $5.1 million in 2024 versus 2023 and is expected to increase operating expenses by between $4 million and $7 million in 2025 versus 2024. Management believes such additional non-cash costs will enhance the long-term performance of the Company by providing selected participants with an incentive to improve the growth and profitability of the Company. In 2024, we revised our short-term incentive compensation structure to better align with our growth objectives. The revised structure incentivizes daily behaviors and actions of our organizational leaders to create immediate growth in line with our cross-functional business objectives. Under the new structure, organizational leaders will be rewarded annually for meeting determined targets in revenue, operating margin, gross margin, and variable margin. Managers will be able to earn up to 130% of their former STI bonus targets for results which exceed expectations. The better alignment of the STI program with business results creates higher volatility in costs. The industry downturn that led to results that were below expectations in 2024 led to relatively low bonus accruals and thus lower reported SG&A expenses. Such costs are expected to be significantly higher if business results meet or exceed expectations. In September 2024, we announced restructuring actions designed, in part, to optimize our manufacturing footprint and streamline business decision making. We recognized restructuring expense pursuant to on-going benefit arrangements of $40.6 million in 2024. The actions are expected to generate annualized cost savings of approximately $23 million (annualized), including $12 million of selling, general and administration expenses, when the actions are fully implemented by the end of 2026. We continue to monitor the economic environment and its potential effects on our customers and the end markets that we serve. In uncertain times, we focus on managing our production capacities in accordance with customer requirements, and maintain discipline in terms of our fixed costs and capital expenditures. Even as we seek to manage our costs, we remain cognizant of the future requirements of our demanding markets. We continue to pursue our growth plans through investing in capacities for strategic product lines, and through increasing our resources for R&D, technical marketing, and field application engineering; supplemented by opportunistic acquisitions of specialty businesses. Our long-term strategy includes growth through the integration of acquired businesses, and GAAP requires plant closure and employee termination costs that we incur in connection with our acquisition activities to be recorded as expenses in our consolidated statement of operations, as such expenses are incurred. We have not incurred any material plant closure or employee termination costs related to any of the businesses acquired since 2011, but we expect to have some level of future restructuring expenses due to acquisitions. 41 Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of businesses acquired over the fair value of the related net assets at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is not amortized but rather is tested for impairment at least annually. These tests are performed more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the assets might be impaired. We perform our annual goodwill impairment test as of the first day of the fourth fiscal quarter. When performing a quantitative assessment of our reporting units, we use an equal weighting of income (discounted cash flow) and market approaches to determine fair value. There are certain execution risks to our strategic plan. These execution risks, as well as the current market price of our common stock, result in the use of a relatively high discount rate in our discounted cash flow analysis. The acquisitions of MaxPower Semiconductor, Inc. and the Newport wafer fab, as well as the planned capacity expansions at Itzehoe and Newport, are long-term investments which were not expected to generate significant income or cash flows in the near-term, but should greatly enhance the long-term position of our MOSFETs business. Such investments have significantly increased the net asset base of our MOSFETs business without a corresponding increase in current income or cash flows. We continue to be committed to these long-term projects. During the third fiscal quarter of 2024, we identified the decrease in our share price in combination with the increase in the book value of our assets as a result of our acquisition and capital spending activities as potential indicators of impairment requiring an interim goodwill impairment test. The interim goodwill impairment test was performed as of September 28, 2024. We performed a quantitative assessment of each of our reporting units and determined that the estimated fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its carrying value, although the MOSFETs reporting units fair value exceeded its carrying value by less than 10%. No goodwill impairment charges were recognized in the third fiscal quarter of 2024 as a result of the goodwill impairment test. During the fourth fiscal quarter of 2024, we identified the further decrease in our share price in combination with the further increase in the book value of our assets as a result of our capital spending activities as well as certain internal and external factors as potential indicators of impairment requiring an interim test of our MOSFETs reporting unit. The interim goodwill impairment test was performed as of December 31, 2024. As a result of the assessment, we determined that the estimated fair value of the MOSFETs reporting unit was less than its carrying value. As a result, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $66.5 million. The goodwill impairment charge is noncash in nature and does not affect our liquidity, cash flows from operating activities, or debt covenants, and will not have a material impact on future operations. If we are not able to achieve our anticipated results and/or if our discount rate were to increase, the fair value of our other reporting units would be adversely affected, which may result in future impairment. There is $179.0 million of goodwill remaining on the balance sheet as of December 31, 2024. We will continue to monitor our reporting units and related goodwill for any possible future noncash impairment charges. See Notes 1 and 19 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. 42 Foreign Currency Translation We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks, particularly due to transactions in currencies other than the functional currencies of certain subsidiaries. We occasionally use forward exchange contracts to economically hedge a portion of our projected cash flows from these exposures. GAAP requires that entities identify the functional currency of each of their subsidiaries and measure all elements of the financial statements in that functional currency. A subsidiarys functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates. In cases where a subsidiary is relatively self-contained within a particular country, the local currency is generally deemed to be the functional currency. However, a foreign subsidiary that is a direct and integral component or extension of the parent companys operations generally would have the parent companys currency as its functional currency. We have both situations among our subsidiaries. Foreign Subsidiaries which use the Local Currency as the Functional Currency We finance our operations in Europe and certain locations in Asia in local currencies, and accordingly, these subsidiaries utilize the local currency as their functional currency. For those subsidiaries where the local currency is the functional currency, assets and liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets have been translated at the rate of exchange as of the balance sheet date. Translation adjustments do not impact the results of operations and are reported as a separate component of stockholders equity. For those subsidiaries where the local currency is the functional currency, revenues and expenses are translated at the average exchange rate for the year. While the translation of revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars does not directly impact the consolidated statement of operations, the translation effectively increases or decreases the U.S. dollar equivalent of revenues generated and expenses incurred in those foreign currencies. The net change of the dollar was not material when comparing 2024 versus 2023, but the dollar was weaker during 2023 versus 2022, with the translation of foreign currency revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars increasing reported revenues and expenses in 2023 versus 2022. Foreign Subsidiaries which use the U.S. Dollar as the Functional Currency Our operations in Israel, the United Kingdom, and most significant locations in Asia are largely financed in U.S. dollars, and accordingly, these subsidiaries utilize the U.S. dollar as their functional currency. For those foreign subsidiaries where the U.S. dollar is the functional currency, all foreign currency financial statement amounts are remeasured into U.S. dollars. Exchange gains and losses arising from remeasurement of foreign currency-denominated monetary assets and liabilities are included in the results of operations. While these subsidiaries transact most business in U.S. dollars, they may have significant costs, particularly payroll-related, which are incurred in the local currency. The cost of products sold and selling, general, and administrative expense have been favorably impacted for the year ended December 31, 2024 compared to 2023 and for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to 2022 by local currency transactions of subsidiaries which use the U.S. dollar as their functional currency. See Item 7A for additional discussion of foreign currency exchange risk. 43 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our significant accounting policies are summarized in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements. We identify here a number of policies that entail significant judgments or estimates. Revenue Recognition Revenue is measured based on the consideration specified in contracts with customers, and excludes any sales incentives and amounts collected on behalf of third parties. We recognize revenue when we satisfy our performance obligations. We have a broad line of products that we sell to OEMs, electronic manufacturing services ("EMS") companies, which manufacture for OEMs on an outsourcing basis, and independent distributors that maintain large inventories of electronic components for resale to OEMs and EMS companies. We recognize revenue on sales to distributors when the distributor takes control of the products ("sold-to" model). We have agreements with distributors that allow distributors a limited credit for unsaleable products, which we refer to as a "scrap allowance." Consistent with industry practice, we also have a "stock, ship and debit" program whereby we consider requests by distributors for credits on previously purchased products that remain in distributors' inventory, to enable the distributors to offer more competitive pricing. In addition, we have contractual arrangements whereby we provide distributors with protection against price reductions initiated by us after product is sold by us to the distributor and prior to resale by the distributor. We recognize the estimated variable consideration to be received as revenue and record a related accrued expense for the consideration not expected to be received, based upon an estimate of product returns, scrap allowances, "stock, ship and debit" credits, and price protection credits that will be attributable to sales recorded through the end of the period. We make these estimates based upon sales levels to our customers during the period, inventory levels at the distributors, current and projected market conditions, and historical experience under the programs. We utilize a number of different methodologies and consider several factors when estimating the accruals. Some of the factors that we consider are sales levels to customers during the relevant period, inventory levels at the distributors, current and projected market trends and conditions, recent and historical activity under the relevant programs, changes in program policies, and open requests for credits. These procedures require the exercise of significant judgments. We believe that we have a reasonable basis to estimate future credits under the programs. See Notes 1 and 9 to our consolidated financial statements for further information. Inventories We value our inventories at the lower of cost or net realizable value, with cost determined under the first-in, first-out method. The valuation of our inventories requires our management to make market estimates. For work in process goods, we are required to estimate the cost to completion of the products and the prices at which we will be able to sell the products. For finished goods, we must assess the prices at which we believe the inventory can be sold. Inventories are also adjusted for estimated obsolescence and written down to net realizable value based on age of the inventory and upon estimates of future demand, technology developments, and market conditions. Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of businesses acquired over the fair value of the related net assets at the date of acquisition. We do not amortize goodwill, but test it at least annually for impairment at the reporting unit level. Impairment tests must be performed more frequently if there are indicators of impairment. A reporting unit is an operating segment, or one level below an operating segment, if it constitutes a business for which discrete financial information is available and regularly reviewed by segment management. Our business segments represent our reporting units for goodwill impairment testing purposes. See Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements for a description of our business segments. When performing a quantitative goodwill impairment test, we determine fair values generally based on a weighting of income and market approaches. For purposes of the income approach, fair values are determined based upon the present value of the reporting units estimated future cash flows, discounted at appropriate risk-adjusted rates. We use our internal forecasts to estimate future cash flows, which may include estimates of long-term future growth rates based upon our most recent reviews of the long-term outlook for each reporting unit. Cash flow estimates used to establish fair values under our income approach involve management judgments based on a broad range of information and historical results. In addition, external economic and competitive conditions can influence future performance. For purposes of the market approach, we use valuation multiples for companies comparable to our reporting units. The determination of the fair value of the reporting units requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions primarily include, but are not limited to: the selection of appropriate peer group companies; control premiums appropriate for acquisitions in the industries in which we compete; the discount rate; terminal growth rates; and forecasts of revenue, operating income, depreciation and amortization (components of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization, "EBITDA"); and capital expenditures. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making these estimates, actual financial results could differ from those estimates. In addition, changes in assumptions concerning future financial results or other underlying assumptions could have a significant impact on the fair value of the reporting unit and the amount of the goodwill impairment charge. See Notes 1 and 19 to our consolidated financial statements for a description of our goodwill impairment tests. 44 Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits Our defined benefit plans are concentrated in the United States, Germany, and the Republic of China (Taiwan). At December 31, 2024, our U.S. plans include various non-qualified plans. The table below summarizes information about our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. This information should be read in conjunction with Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements (amounts in thousands): Benefit obligation Plan assets Funded position Informally funded assets Net position Unrecognized actuarial items U.S. non-qualified pension plans $ 28,638 $ - $ (28,638 ) $ 20,907 $ (7,731 ) $ 11 German pension plans 120,528 - (120,528 ) 4,043 (116,485 ) 13,616 Taiwanese pension plans 37,085 35,593 (1,492 ) - (1,492 ) 783 Other pension plans 38,078 28,875 (9,203 ) - (9,203 ) 4,462 OPEB plans 11,024 - (11,024 ) - (11,024 ) (171 ) Other retirement obligations 10,518 - (10,518 ) - (10,518 ) - $ 245,871 $ 64,468 $ (181,403 ) $ 24,950 $ (156,453 ) $ 18,701 Accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans involves numerous assumptions and estimates. The discount rate at which obligations could effectively be settled and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets are two critical assumptions in measuring the cost and benefit obligations of our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Other important assumptions include the anticipated rate of future increases in compensation levels, estimated mortality, and for certain postretirement medical plans, increases or trends in health care costs. Management reviews these assumptions at least annually. We use independent actuaries and investment advisers to assist us in formulating assumptions and making estimates. These assumptions are updated periodically to reflect the actual experience and expectations on a plan specific basis as appropriate. In the U.S., we utilize published long-term high quality bonds to determine the discount rate at the measurement date. In Germany and the Republic of China (Taiwan), we utilize published long-term government bond rates to determine the discount rate at the measurement date. We utilize bond yields at various maturity dates that reflect the timing of expected future benefit payments. We believe the discount rates selected are the rates at which these obligations could effectively be settled. Non-qualified plans in the U.S. are considered by law to be unfunded. However, the Company maintains assets in a rabbi trust to fund benefit payments under certain of these plans. Such assets would be subject to creditor claims under certain conditions. (See also Notes 11 and 18 to our consolidated financial statements.) Many of our non-U.S. plans are unfunded based on local laws and customs. For those non-U.S. plans that do maintain investments, their asset holdings are primarily cash and fixed income securities, based on local laws and customs. Some non-U.S. plans also informally fund their plans by holding certain available-for-sale investments. Such assets would be subject to creditor claims under certain conditions. (See also Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements.) We set the expected long-term rate of return based on the expected long-term average rates of return to be achieved by the underlying investment portfolios. In establishing this rate, we consider historical and expected returns for the asset classes in which the plans are invested, advice from pension consultants and investment advisors, and current economic and capital market conditions. The expected return on plan assets is incorporated into the computation of pension expense. The difference between this expected return and the actual return on plan assets is deferred. The net deferral of past asset losses (gains) affects the calculated value of plan assets and, ultimately, future pension expense (income). We continue to seek to de-risk our global pension exposures. Such actions could result in increased net periodic pension cost due to lower expected rates of return on plan assets and/or possible additional charges to recognize unamortized actuarial items if all or a portion of the obligations were to be settled. We believe that the current assumptions used to estimate plan obligations and annual expenses are appropriate. However, if economic conditions change or if our investment strategy changes, we may be inclined to change some of our assumptions, and the resulting change could have a material impact on the consolidated statements of operations and on the consolidated balance sheet. 45 Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We establish reserves for tax-related uncertainties based on estimates of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. These reserves are established when we believe that certain positions might be challenged despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances and the provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate. These accruals for tax-related uncertainties are based on our best estimate of potential tax exposures. When particular matters arise, a number of years may elapse before such matters are audited by tax authorities and finally resolved. Favorable resolution of such matters could be recognized as a reduction to our effective tax rate in the year of resolution. Unfavorable resolution of any particular issue could increase the effective tax rate and may require the use of cash in the year of resolution. During 2024, certain tax examinations were concluded and certain statutes of limitations lapsed. Our tax provision for those years includes adjustments related to the resolution of these matters. During 2023, we settled an examination of our U.S. federal income tax returns for the periods ended December 31, 2017 through 2019. Our federal income tax returns for the years 2021 through 2023 remain subject to examination. The tax returns of significant non-U.S. subsidiaries currently under examination are located in the following jurisdictions: Israel (2021), Germany (2017 through 2021), India (2004 through 2021), and Philippines (2017 through 2023). The Company and its subsidiaries also file income tax returns in other taxing jurisdictions in the U.S. and around the world, many of which are still open to examination. See Notes 1 and 5 to consolidated financial statements for additional information. 46 Results of Operations Statement of operations captions as a percentage of net revenues and the effective tax rates were as follows: Years ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Costs of products sold 78.7 % 71.4 % 69.7 % Gross profit 21.3 % 28.6 % 30.3 % Selling, general, and administrative expenses 17.5 % 14.4 % 12.7 % Operating income 0.2 % 14.3 % 17.6 % Income (loss) before taxes and noncontrolling interest (0.1 )% 13.7 % 17.0 % Net earnings (loss) attributable to Vishay stockholders (1.1 )% 9.5 % 12.3 % ________ Effective tax rate (1,145.5 )% 30.4 % 27.5 % Net Revenues Net revenues were as follows (dollars in thousands): 2024 2023 2022 Net revenues $ 2,937,587 $ 3,402,045 $ 3,497,401 Change versus prior year $ (464,458 ) $ (95,356) Percentage change versus prior year (13.7 )% (2.7 )% Changes in net revenues were attributable to the following: 2024 vs. 2023 2023 vs. 2022 Change attributable to: Decrease in volume (10.9 )% (5.2 )% Change in average selling prices (4.2 )% 1.7 % Foreign currency effects 0.0 % 0.7 % Acquisitions 1.0 % 0.2 % Other 0.4 % (0.1 )% Net change (13.7 )% (2.7 )% Despite the inventory correction that we are experiencing, the long-term prospects for our business remain favorable, and we continue to increase manufacturing capacities for critical product lines. The decrease in net revenues in 2024 is primarily due to lower sales volume and decreased average selling prices. The decrease in net revenues in 2023 was primarily sales volume-driven, partially offset by increased average selling prices. Gross Profit and Margins Gross profit margins for the year ended December 31, 2024 were 21.3%, as compared to 28.6% for the year ended December 31, 2023. The decrease in gross profit margin is primarily due to lower sales volume, decreased average selling prices, and the impact of the Newport acquisition. Higher labor costs and depreciation expense also negatively impacted the gross profit margin. 47 Segments Analysis of revenues and margins for our segments is provided below. Direct costs of the COVID-19 pandemic are not allocated to the segments. MOSFETs Net revenues of the MOSFETs segment were as follows (dollars in thousands): Years ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Net revenues $ 601,979 $ 778,754 $ 762,260 Change versus comparable prior year period $ (176,775 ) $ 16,494 Percentage change versus comparable prior year period (22.7 )% 2.2 % Changes in MOSFETs segment net revenues were attributable to the following: 2024 vs. 2023 2023 vs. 2022 Change attributable to: Decrease in volume (17.4 )% (1.8 )% Change in average selling prices (11.0 )% 2.3 % Foreign currency effects 0.0 % 0.5 % Acquisition 3.9 % 1.0 % Other 1.8 % 0.2 % Net change (22.7 )% 2.2 % Gross profit margins and segment operating margins for the MOSFETs segment were as follows: Years ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Gross profit margin 14.5 % 33.3 % 36.0 % Segment operating margin 1.1 % 25.1 % 30.0 % Net revenues of the MOSFETs segment decreased significantly in 2024 versus the prior year. The decrease is primarily due to decreased sales to distribution customers and customers in the industrial, power supply, and automotive end markets. The gross profit margin in 2024 decreased versus the prior year primarily due to lower sales volume and decreased average selling prices. Costs associated with the Newport wafer fab also contributed to decreases versus the prior year. The segment operating margin decreased versus the prior year. The decreases are primarily due to gross profit margin decreases and increased segment SG&A expenses associated with the Newport wafer fab. Average selling prices decreased versus the prior year. We continue to invest to expand mid- and long-term manufacturing capacity for strategic product lines. We have begun building a 12-inch wafer fab in Itzehoe, Germany adjacent to our existing 8-inch wafer fab, which we expect will increase our in-house wafer capacity by approximately 70% by 2028 and allow us to balance our in-house and foundry wafer supply. We acquired leading edge silicon and silicon carbide MOSFETs products with our acquisition of MaxPower in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2022. We plan to use the Newport wafer fabrication facility acquired in the first fiscal quarter of 2024 as the home for MaxPower to further develop and scale our SiC MOSFETs and diodes capabilities. The acquisitions of MaxPower Semiconductor, Inc. and the Newport wafer fab, as well as the planned capacity expansions at Itzehoe and Newport, are long-term investments which were not expected to generate significant income or cash flows in the near-term, but should greatly enhance the long-term position of our MOSFETs business. Despite the goodwill impairment charge recorded in 2024, we remain committed to these long-term projects. 48 Diodes Net revenues of the Diodes segment were as follows (dollars in thousands): Years ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Net revenues $ 581,975 $ 690,540 $ 765,220 Change versus comparable prior year period $ (108,565 ) $ (74,680 ) Percentage change versus comparable prior year period (15.7 )% (9.8 )% Changes in Diodes segment net revenues were attributable to the following: 2024 vs. 2023 2023 vs. 2022 Change attributable to: Decrease in volume (13.1 )% (11.0 )% Change in average selling prices (3.0 )% 1.0 % Foreign currency effects (0.1 )% 0.4 % Other 0.5 % (0.2 )% Net change (15.7 )% (9.8 )% Gross profit margins and segment operating margins for the Diodes segment were as follows: Years ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Gross profit margin 20.8 % 25.4 % 25.9 % Segment operating margin 16.5 % 22.2 % 23.1 % Net revenues of the Diodes segment decreased significantly in 2024. The decrease versus the prior year is due to decreased sales in all regions to distribution and EMS customers and industrial, automotive, and power supply end market customers. Gross profit margin decreased significantly versus the prior year primarily due to lower sales volume, decreased average selling prices, and higher materials, labor, and fixed costs. Segment operating margin decreased significantly versus the prior year primarily due to decreased gross profit and increased SG&A costs. Average selling prices decreased versus the prior year. 49 Optoelectronic Components Net revenues of the Optoelectronic Components segment were as follows (dollars in thousands): Years ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Net revenues $ 212,368 $ 243,146 $ 296,384 Change versus comparable prior year period $ (30,778 ) $ (53,238 ) Percentage change versus comparable prior year period (12.7 )% (18.0 )% Changes in Optoelectronic Components segment net revenues were attributable to the following: 2024 vs. 2023 2023 vs. 2022 Change attributable to: Decrease in volume (10.5 )% (19.2 )% Change in average selling prices (2.5 )% 0.5 % Foreign currency effects 0.1 % 0.9 % Other 0.2 % (0.2 )% Net change (12.7 )% (18.0 )% Gross profit margins and segment operating margins for the Optoelectronic Components segment were as follows: Years ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Gross profit margin 18.0 % 25.6 % 34.7 % Segment operating margin 7.9 % 17.7 % 28.8 % Net revenues of the Optoelectronic Components segment decreased versus the prior year. The decrease was primarily due to decreased sales to distribution customers and customers in the industrial and automotive end markets. Sales significantly decreased in the Europe and Americas regions, partially offset by an increase in sales in the Asia region. The gross profit margin decreased versus the prior year. The decrease is primarily due to lower sales volume, higher materials prices, and inventory obsolescence. The segment operating margin decreased primarily due to the decrease in gross profit. Average selling prices decreased versus the prior year. 50 Resistors Net revenues of the Resistors segment were as follows (dollars in thousands): Years ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Net revenues $ 725,614 $ 843,472 $ 832,806 Change versus comparable prior year period $ (117,858 ) $ 10,666 Percentage change versus comparable prior year period (14.0 )% 1.3 % Changes in Resistors segment net revenues were attributable to the following: 2024 vs. 2023 2023 vs. 2022 Change attributable to: Decrease in volume (12.0 )% (1.4 )% Change in average selling prices (3.0 )% 1.8 % Foreign currency effects 0.0 % 1.0 % Acquisitions 0.5 % 0.0 % Other 0.5 % (0.1 )% Net change (14.0 )% 1.3 % Gross profit margins and segment operating margins for the Resistors segment were as follows: Years ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Gross profit margin 21.9 % 28.3 % 31.5 % Segment operating margin 17.3 % 24.8 % 28.2 % Net revenues of the Resistors segment decreased significantly versus the prior year. The decrease was primarily due to decreased sales to distribution customers and customers in the industrial and automotive end markets. Sales decreased in the Europe and Americas regions, partially offset by an increase in sales in the Asia region. The gross profit margin decreased versus the prior year. The decrease is due to lower sales volume, decreased average selling prices, and higher labor and materials costs, partially offset by a favorable product mix and decreased utilities costs. Segment operating margin decreased versus the prior year. The decrease is primarily due to decreased gross profit. Average selling prices decreased versus the prior year. We are increasing critical manufacturing capacities for certain product lines. We continue to broaden our business with targeted acquisitions of specialty resistors businesses. 51 Inductors Net revenues of the Inductors segment were as follows (dollars in thousands): Years ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Net revenues $ 356,355 $ 347,392 $ 331,086 Change versus comparable prior year period $ 8,963 $ 16,306 Percentage change versus comparable prior year period 2.6 % 4.9 % Changes in Inductors segment net revenues were attributable to the following: 2024 vs. 2023 2023 vs. 2022 Change attributable to: Increase in volume 4.8 % 2.4 % Change in average selling prices (2.2 )% 1.9 % Foreign currency effects 0.0 % 0.5 % Other 0.0 % 0.1 % Net change 2.6 % 4.9 % Gross profit margins and segment operating margins for the Inductorssegment were as follows: Years ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Gross profit margin 30.0 % 32.4 % 31.5 % Segment operating margin 25.9 % 28.7 % 28.2 % Net revenues of the Inductors segment increased slightly versus the prior year. The increase is primarily due to increased sales to EMS customers, medical, and military and aerospace end market customers, and customers in the Americas and Asia regions, partially offset by decreased sales to industrial and automotive end market customers and customers in the Europe region. The gross profit margin decreased versus the prior year. The decrease is primarily due to lower average selling prices and higher logistics and labor costs. Segment operating margin decreased versus the prior year. The decrease is primarily due to decreased gross profit. Average selling prices decreased versus the prior year. We expect long-term growth in this segment, and are continuously expanding manufacturing capacity for certain product lines and evaluating acquisition opportunities, particularly of specialty businesses. 52 Capacitors Net revenues of the Capacitors segment were as follows (dollars in thousands): Years ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Net revenues $ 459,296 $ 498,741 $ 509,645 Change versus comparable prior year period $ (39,445 ) $ (10,904) Percentage change versus comparable prior year period (7.9 )% (2.1 )% Changes in Capacitors segment net revenues were attributable to the following: 2024 vs. 2023 2023 vs. 2022 Change attributable to: Decrease in volume (7.2 )% (5.1 )% Change in average selling prices (0.5 )% 2.2 % Foreign currency effects 0.0 % 0.9 % Other (0.2 )% (0.1 )% Net change (7.9 )% (2.1 )% Gross profit margins and segment operating margins for the Capacitors segment were as follows: Years ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Gross profit margin 24.8 % 25.3 % 24.3 % Segment operating margin 19.7 % 21.1 % 20.6 % Net revenues of the Capacitors segment decreased versus the prior year. The decrease is primarily due to decreased sales to distribution customers, customers in the industrial and automotive end markets, and customers in the Americas and Europe regions, partially offset by increased sales to customers in the Asia region. The gross profit margin decreased slightly versus the prior year. The decrease is due to lower sales volume, decreased average selling prices, higher labor and tantalum costs, partially offset by a favorable product mix, and decreased utilities costs. Segment operating margin decreased versus the prior year. The decrease is primarily due to decreased gross profit. Average selling prices have decreased slightly versus the prior year. A large portion of expected growth of our Capacitors segment is in high voltage high power film capacitors used for smart grid infrastructure projects. Accordingly, we acquired Birkelbach, which is being vertically integrated, to ensure we have adequate metalized film material required to fulfill this growing demand. 53 Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses Selling, general, and administrative expenses are summarized as follows (dollars in thousands): Years ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Total SG&A expenses $ 513,564 $ 488,349 $ 443,503 as a percentage of sales 17.5 % 14.4 % 12.7 % SG&A expenses for the year ended December 31, 2024 increased versus the year ended December 31, 2023 due to higher stock-based compensation and general cost inflation, partially offset by lower bonus compensation. In September 2024, we announced restructuring actions designed, in part, to streamline business decision making. The actions are expected to generate annualized cost savings of approximately $12 million of selling, general and administration expenses, when the actions are fully implemented by the end of 2026. However, we are also incurring additional SG&A costs associated with our strategic initiatives. See "Cost Management" above. Other Income (Expense) 2024 Compared to 2023 Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2024 increased by $2.3 million versus the year ended December 31, 2023. The increase is primarily due to the issuance of the convertible senior notes due 2030 in the third fiscal quarter of 2023. The following table analyzes the components of the line Other on the consolidated statements of operations (in thousands): Years ended December 31, 2024 2023 Change Foreign exchange gain (loss) $ 774 $ 677 $ 97 Interest income 25,479 31,353 (5,874 ) Other components of net periodic pension expense (7,899 ) (8,730 ) 831 Investment income (519 ) 1,347 (1,866 ) Other 1,629 616 1,013 $ 19,464 $ 25,263 $ (5,799 ) 2023 Compared to 2022 Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2023 increased by $8.0 million versus the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase is primarily due to higher interest rates and higher average balances outstanding on the revolving credit facility in 2023 prior to September 2023 when it was paid down to $0. The following table analyzes the components of the line Other on the consolidated statements of operations (in thousands): Years ended December 31, 2023 2022 Change Foreign exchange gain $ 677 $ 5,690 $ (5,013 ) Interest income 31,353 7,560 23,793 Other components of net periodic pension expense (8,730 ) (11,090 ) 2,360 Investment income (loss) 1,347 (6,812 ) 8,159 Other 616 (200 ) 816 $ 25,263 $ (4,852 ) $ 30,115 54 Income Taxes For the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023, and 2022, the effective tax rates were (1,145.5)%, 30.4%, and 27.5%, respectively. We expect that our effective tax rate will be higher than the U.S. statutory rate, excluding unusual transactions. Our GAAP effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2024 is not meaningful at the low levels of pre-tax loss. There were no unusual tax transactions that impacted the effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2022 was impacted by $5.9 million of tax benefits recognized for changes in uncertain tax positions following the resolution of a tax audit, $59.6 million of tax expense recognized upon the change in indefinite reversal assertion on earnings in Germany, and $33.7 million of tax benefits recognized upon the release of a valuation allowance. We made the determination during the fourth fiscal quarter of 2022 that substantially all unremitted earnings in Germany were no longer indefinitely reinvested. We recorded additional tax expense during the fourth fiscal quarter of 2022 to accrue the $59.6 million of withholding taxes necessary to distribute these approximately $360.0 million of accumulated earnings to the United States. We operate in a global environment with significant operations in various locations outside the United States. Accordingly, the consolidated income tax rate is a composite rate reflecting our earnings and the applicable tax rates in the various locations where we operate. Part of our historical strategy has been to achieve cost savings through the transfer and expansion of manufacturing operations to countries where we can take advantage of lower labor costs and available tax and other government-sponsored incentives. Additional information about income taxes is included in Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements. 55 Financial Condition, Liquidity, and Capital Resources Our financial condition as of December 31, 2024 continued to be strong. We have historically been a strong generator of operating cash flows. The cash generated from operations is used to fund our capital expenditure plans, and cash in excess of our capital expenditure needs is available to fund our acquisition strategy, fund our stockholder return policy, and to reduce debt levels. Management uses a non-GAAP measure, "free cash," to evaluate our ability to fund acquisitions, repay debt, and otherwise enhance stockholder value through stock repurchases or dividends. See "Overview" above for "free cash" definition and reconciliation to GAAP. Cash flows provided by operating activities were $173.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2024, as compared to cash flows provided by operations of $365.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. In order to manage our working capital and operating cash needs, we monitor our cash conversion cycle. The following table presents the components of our cash conversion cycle during the five fiscal quarters beginning with the fourth fiscal quarter of 2023 through the fourth fiscal quarter of 2024: 4th Quarter 2023 1st Quarter 2024 2nd Quarter 2024 3rd Quarter 2024 4th Quarter 2024 Days sales outstanding ("DSO") (a) 50 51 51 53 53 Days inventory outstanding ("DIO") (b) 101 104 105 106 109 Days payable outstanding ("DPO") (c) (31 ) (31 ) (31 ) (32 ) (34 ) Cash conversion cycle 120 124 125 127 128 a) DSO measures the average collection period of our receivables. DSO is calculated by dividing the average accounts receivable by the average net revenue per day for the respective fiscal quarter. b) DIO measures the average number of days from procurement to sale of our product. DIO is calculated by dividing the average inventory by average cost of goods sold per day for the respective fiscal quarter. c) DPO measures the average number of days our payables remain outstanding before payment. DPO is calculated by dividing the average accounts payable by the average cost of goods sold per day for the respective fiscal quarter. Cash paid for property and equipment for the year ended December 31, 2024 was $320.1 million, as compared to $329.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. To be well positioned to service our customers and to fully participate in growing markets, we have increased and expect to maintain a relatively high level of capital expenditures for expansion in the mid-term. We remain committed to our long-term plan of increasing Vishay's capacity, to assure our customers of reliable volume as they scale. While we plan to advance our capacity expansion projects, we have and will continue to modulate the spending in response to order flow and the timing of customer demand and qualifications. The decreased lead time for equipment and the increased subcontractor capacity are also variables that allow us to adjust our capacity spending. For 2025, we plan to spend between $300 million to $350 million, at least 70% of which will be invested in capacity expansion projects for high growth product lines, including our wafer fab expansions. Free cash flow for the year ended December 31, 2024 decreased versus the year ended December 31, 2023 primarily due to decreased net earnings. We expect that free cash flow will be negatively impacted by the expected high level of capital expenditures for expansion in 2023 - 2025 after which we expect to generate increasingly higher levels of free cash. There is no assurance, however, that we will be able to continue to generate cash flows from operations and free cash at our historical levels, or at all, going forward if the economic environment worsens. In 2022, our Board of Directors adopted a Stockholder Return Policy that will remain in effect until such time as the Board votes to amend or rescind the policy. See Stockholder Return Policy above for additional information. The following table summarizes the components of net cash and short-term investments (debt) (in thousands): December 31, 2024 December 31, 2023 Credit facility $ 136,000 $ - Convertible senior notes, due 2025 41,911 95,102 Convertible senior notes, due 2030 750,000 750,000 Deferred financing costs (22,892 ) (26,914 ) Total debt 905,019 818,188 Cash and cash equivalents 590,286 972,719 Short-term investments 16,130 35,808 Net cash and short-term investments (debt) $ (298,603 ) $ 190,339 "Net cash and short-term investments (debt)" does not have a uniform definition and is not recognized in accordance with GAAP. This measure should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance or liquidity. However, management believes that an analysis of "net cash and short-term investments (debt)" assists investors in understanding aspects of our cash and debt management. The measure, as calculated by us, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. 56 We invest a portion of our excess cash in highly liquid, high-quality instruments with maturities greater than 90 days, but less than 1 year, which we classify as short-term investments on our consolidated balance sheets. As these investments were funded using a portion of excess cash and represent a significant aspect of our cash management strategy, we include the investments in the calculation of net cash and short-term investments (debt). The interest rates on our short-term investments vary by location. Transactions related to these investments are classified as investing activities on our consolidated statements of cash flows. Our business is geographically diverse and our cash is generated by our subsidiaries around the world. Cash dividends to stockholders, share repurchases, and principal and interest payments on our debt instruments need to be paid by the U.S. parent company, Vishay Intertechnology, Inc. We continue to allocate capital responsibly between our business, our lenders, and our stockholders. The capital allocated to our business is further allocated between our subsidiaries to meet local operating cash needs, to fund capital expenditures as part of our growth plan, and to meet corporate funding needs while also aiming to minimize our tax expense. During the second fiscal quarter of 2024, we repatriated $120 million of accumulated earnings to the United States and paid withholding taxes in Israel of $15 million. As of December 31, 2024, $17 million of our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments were held by our U.S. subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2024, we are in a net borrowing position in the U.S. and we expect to continue to be at least through the first half of 2025 based on expected cash payments pursuant to our Stockholder Return Policy and funding of the Newport expansion. As of December 31, 2024, we have approximately $515 million of German and Israeli earnings that are deemed not indefinitely reinvested. Based on the expected timing of future repatriations, we estimate that the tax liability to repatriate these unremitted earnings will be approximately $77 million, which has been accrued, but will only be paid upon repatriation of the unremitted earnings. Repatriating these unremitted earnings earlier than currently planned may not be possible and may incur additional tax expense. We also have amounts of unremitted foreign earnings held by subsidiaries in countries other than Israel and Germany, which continue to be reinvested indefinitely, that we have not accrued for the incremental foreign income taxes and withholding taxes payable to foreign jurisdictions that would be incurred to repatriate these amounts. Certain of these subsidiaries are located in countries with restrictive regulations and high tax rates for repatriating cash. Due to the uncertainties associated with the ability, timing, and method to repatriate these unremitted earnings and other complexities associated with its hypothetical calculation, determination of the amount of tax expense that would be incurred to repatriate the unremitted earnings is not practicable, but could be significant. Our undrawn credit facility provides us with adequate operating liquidity in the United States. Upon successful completion of our growth plan, we expect to generate increasingly higher levels of free cash that will be sufficient to meet our long-term financing needs related to normal operating requirements, regular dividend payments, share repurchases pursuant to our Stockholder Return Policy, while allowing us to manage our repatriation and financing activities to minimize tax and interest expense. During the current period of intensified capital expenditures to achieve our growth plans, we are considering a combination of additional and alternative sources of financing and our cash on hand to fund a portion of the capital expenditures that would conserve cash for future acquisitions while enabling us to minimize tax expense. We maintain a $750 million revolving credit agreement with a consortium of banks led by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., that matures on May 8, 2028. The maximum amount available on the revolving credit facility is restricted by the financial covenants described below. The credit facility also provides us the ability to request up to $300 million of incremental facilities, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, which could take the form of additional revolving commitments, incremental term loan A or term loan B facilities, or incremental equivalent debt. The credit facility limits or restricts us from, among other things, incurring indebtedness, incurring liens on its respective assets, making investments and acquisitions (assuming our pro forma net leverage ratio is greater than 2.75 to 1.00), making asset sales, and paying cash dividends and making other restricted payments (assuming our pro forma net leverage ratio is greater than 2.50 to 1.00). On August 15, 2024, we entered into an amendment to the credit facility that redefined the Interest Coverage Ratio to remove Capital Expenditures from the calculation and increased the minimum Interest Coverage Ratio to 3.25 to 1.00, among other changes. We were in compliance with all financial covenants under the credit facility at December 31, 2024. Our interest coverage ratio and net leverage ratio were 16.01 to 1 and 1.94 to 1, respectively. We expect to continue to be in compliance with these covenants based on current projections. Based on our current EBITDA and outstanding revolver balance, the usable capacity on the credit facility is approximately $467 million. If we are not in compliance with all of the required financial covenants, the credit facility could be terminated by the lenders, and any amounts then outstanding pursuant to the credit facility could become immediately payable. Additionally, our convertible senior notes due 2025 and due 2030 have cross-default provisions that could accelerate repayment in the event the indebtedness under the credit facility is accelerated. The maturity date of the credit facility will accelerate if within ninety-one days prior to the maturity of our convertible senior notes due 2025, the outstanding principal amount of such notes exceeds a defined liquidity measure as set forth in the credit facility. The repurchase of $370.2 million principal amount of convertible senior notes due 2025 in 2023 and an additional $53.2 million principal amount of our convertible senior notes due 2025 in 2024 significantly reduces the risk that the maturity date of the credit facility will accelerate. The 2024 repurchases were funded with a draw on our revolving credit facility. Borrowings under the credit facility bear interest at variable reference rates plus an interest margin. The applicable interest margin is based on our total leverage ratio. We also pay a commitment fee, also based on our total leverage ratio, on undrawn amounts. U.S. dollar borrowings under the credit facility are based on SOFR (including a customary spread adjustment). Borrowings in foreign currencies bear interest at currency-specific reference rates plus an interest margin. Based on our current total leverage ratio of 2.64 to 1, any new U.S. dollar borrowings will bear interest at SOFR plus 2.10% (including the applicable credit spread), and the undrawn commitment fee is 0.35% per annum. 57 The borrowings under the credit facility are secured by a lien on substantially all assets, including accounts receivable, inventory, machinery and equipment, and general intangibles (but excluding real estate, intellectual property registered or licensed solely for use in, or arising solely under the laws of, any country other than the United States, assets located solely outside of the United States and deposit and securities accounts), of Vishay and certain significant subsidiaries located in the United States, and pledges of stock in certain subsidiaries; and are guaranteed by certain significant subsidiaries. We had no amount outstanding on our revolving credit facility at December 31, 2023 and $136 million outstanding at December 31, 2024. We borrowed $183 million and repaid $47 million on the revolving credit facility during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024. The average outstanding balance on our revolving credit facility calculated at fiscal month-ends was $34 million and the highest amount outstanding at a fiscal month end was $136 million during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024. We expect, at least initially, to fund certain future obligations required to be paid by the U.S. parent company by borrowing under our credit facility. We also expect to continue to use the credit facility from time-to-time to meet certain short-term financing needs. Additional acquisition activity, convertible debt repurchases, or conversion of our convertible debt instruments may require additional borrowing under our credit facility or may otherwise require us to incur additional debt. Except for the maturity of $41.9 of convertible senior notes due 2025, which will be funded by the revolving credit facility, no principal amounts of our debt are due until 2028. The convertible senior notes due 2025 became convertible on December 15, 2024 and will remain convertible until maturity. The convertible senior notes due 2030 are not currently convertible. Pursuant to the indenture governing the convertible senior notes due 2030, we will cash-settle the principal amount of $1,000 per note and settle any additional amounts in cash or shares of our common stock. Pursuant to the indenture governing the convertible senior notes due 2025 and the amendments thereto incorporated in the Supplemental Indenture dated December 23, 2020, we will cash-settle the principal amount of $1,000 per note and settle any additional amounts in shares of our common stock. We intend to finance the principal amount of any converted notes using borrowings under our credit facility. No conversions have occurred to date. We have the intent and ability to finance the principal amount of the convertible senior notes due 2025 using borrowings under our credit facility upon maturity of the notes. 58 In evaluating our liquidity and capital resources, we consider our outstanding commitments. As of December 31, 2024 our commitments were as follows (in thousands): Payments due by period Total 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 Thereafter Long-term debt $ 927,911 $ 41,911 $ - $ - $ 136,000 $ - $ 750,000 Interest payments on long-term debt 134,963 28,688 28,256 28,256 20,935 16,875 11,953 Operating leases 159,089 26,681 22,803 19,266 15,724 13,690 60,925 Letters of credit 2,062 - - - 2,062 - - Expected pension and postretirement plan funding 182,947 20,182 18,855 17,601 23,412 18,773 84,124 Estimated costs to complete construction in progress 158,900 121,200 33,200 4,500 - - - Estimated costs to complete MOSFETs wafer fab 337,200 143,200 168,100 25,900 - - - TCJA transition tax 47,027 47,027 - - - - - Uncertain tax positions 14,647 1,515 - - - - 13,132 Purchase commitments 85,791 74,551 8,295 2,945 - - - Other long-term liabilities 90,954 - - - - - 90,954 Total contractual cash obligations $ 2,141,491 $ 504,955 $ 279,509 $ 98,468 $ 198,133 $ 49,338 $ 1,011,088 Commitments for long-term debt are based on the amount required to settle the obligation. Accordingly, the capitalized deferred financing costs associated with our convertible notes are excluded from the calculation of long-term debt commitments in the table above. The amounts due in 2025 are expected to be refinanced on a long-term basis. Commitments for interest payments on long-term debt are cash commitments based on the stated maturity dates of each agreement and include fees under our revolving credit facility, which expires on May 8, 2028. Commitments for interest payments on long-term debt exclude non-cash interest expense related to the amortization of deferred financing costs. Various factors could have a material effect on the amount of future principal and interest payments. Principal and interest commitments associated with our convertible notes are based on the amounts outstanding as of December 31, 2024. Additionally, interest commitments for our revolving credit facility are based on the rate prevailing at December 31, 2024, but actual rates are variable and are certain to change over time. We will pay the final increment of the TCJA transition tax in 2025. Estimated costs to complete the MOSFETs wafer fab and the Newport wafer fab include amounts that we are not contractually required to complete. Our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2024 includes liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions in multiple taxing jurisdictions where we conduct business. Due to the uncertain and complex application of tax regulations, combined with the difficulty in predicting when tax audits throughout the world may be concluded, we cannot make reliable estimates of the timing of the remaining cash outflows relating to these liabilities. Accordingly, we have classified all non-current uncertain tax positions as payments due thereafter, although actual timing of payments may be sooner. Expected pension and postretirement plan funding is based on a projected schedule of benefit payments under the plans. We maintain long-term arrangements with subcontractors, suppliers, and other business partners to ensure access to external capacity and supplies for certain products. The purchase commitments in the table above represent the estimated minimum commitments under these arrangements. Our actual purchases in future periods are expected to be greater than these minimum commitments. Other long-term liabilities in the table above include obligations that are reflected on our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2024. We include the current portion of the long-term liabilities in the table above. Other long-term liabilities for which we are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of the settlement are classified as payments due thereafter in the table above, although actual timing of payments may be sooner. For a further discussion of our long-term debt, pensions and other postretirement benefits, leases, uncertain tax positions, and purchase commitments, see Notes 2, 4, 5, 6, 11, and 13 to our consolidated financial statements. 59