Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Business. Forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include, but are not limited to, statements concerning: trends in our operating expenses, including personnel costs, research and development expense, sales and marketing expense, and general and administrative expense; the effect of competitors and competition in our markets; our wearable products and their market acceptance and future potential; our ability to develop, timely introduce and effectively manage the introduction of new products and services or improve our existing products and services; expected technological advances by us or by third parties and our ability to leverage them; our ability to attract and retain customers. our ability to accurately forecast consumer demand and adequately manage inventory; our ability to deliver an adequate supply of product to meet demand; our ability to maintain and promote our brand and expand brand awareness; our ability to detect, prevent, or fix defects in our products; our reliance on third-party suppliers, contract manufacturers and logistics providers and our limited control over such parties; trends in revenue, costs of revenue, and gross margin and our possible or assumed future results of operations; our ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees; the impact of foreign currency exchange rates; the effect of future regulations; the sufficiency of our existing cash and cash equivalent balances and cash flow from operations to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next 12 months; and general market, political, economic and business conditions. All statements in this annual report that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. We may, in some cases, use terms such as anticipates, believes, could, estimates, expects, intends, may, plans, potential, predicts, projects, should, will, would or similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are made based on managements beliefs, estimates and opinions on the date the statements are made and we undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements if these beliefs, estimates and opinions or other circumstances should change, except as may be required by applicable law. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. PART I Item 1. Business Company Overview We are engaged in the design, manufacture, marketing and sale of augmented reality wearable display devices also referred to as head mounted displays (or HMDs, but also known as Video Eyewear, near-eye displays, near-eye virtual displays), in the form of Smart Glasses and Augmented Reality (AR) glasses. Our AR wearable display devices are worn like eyeglasses and contain varying features such as built-in video screens and audio. These devices also often include cameras, sensors, and a computer, that enable the user to view and interact with video and digital content, such as movies, computer data, the Internet or video games. Our AR wearable display products provide virtual large high-resolution screens and present a virtual image to the user through our proprietary optics and projection engines. Using these optics and displays, our AR wearable display devices provide a virtual image that appears to the wearer similar in size to the image from a typical smart phone screen at arms length away, all the way to models that offer wall-sized home theatre screens. Our virtual imaging products integrate microdisplay technology with our advanced optics to produce compact high-resolution display engines, less than half an inch diagonally, which when viewed through our eyeglasses products create virtual images that appear comparable in size to that of a computer monitor or a large-screen television. 1 Our Smart Glasses are designed to work standalone or as a peripheral to the smartphone and have many of the same capabilities of the smartphone itself, allowing them to be used as a hands-free wearable computer. Our products can be used as a wearable substitute for large-screen televisions, desktop computer monitors or tablets. Additionally, our Smart Glasses models allow users to utilize many smartphone applications while keeping their smartphones in a pocket or purse. Users of mobile devices sometime employ tablets and smartphones to replace their personal computer or console game systems while they are outside their homes or offices. Our wearable display products enable users of these mobile devices to effectively view the entire screen on a small, eyeglass-like device allowing real world interaction while viewing the screen. We believe some of the most promising future uses of wearable displays are Smart Glasses and AR glasses where virtual 2D and 3D computer-generated objects and information are superimposed to enhance real-world views. This see-through capability is accomplished using a see-through optic, built around our waveguide intellectual property or digitally with a forward-looking camera. Our wearable displays can also be used for AR applications, in which the wearer has their real-world view augmented with computer generated information or graphics as is typical in either consumer or enterprise applications. In the past, see-through HMDs displayed the real world using semi-transparent mirrors placed in front of the users eyes. These HMDs were large and bulky and as a result, they had little mass-market appeal. We have developed thin optics, called waveguides, that are fully see-through and enable miniature display engines to be mounted in the temples of the HMD which allows the form factor of the Smart Glasses to be comparable to conventional eyeglasses. Our Smart Glasses and AR Glasses are designed for all day use cases and are small enough to fit in a users pocket or purse. With hands free wearable computers like our M300 and M100 Smart Glasses, the user can merge virtual information with the real world, known as AR. With this capability, we have the potential to penetrate many new markets in the consumer and enterprise markets. An example of AR is the yellow first down line seen in television broadcasts of American football games, in which the line the offensive team must cross to achieve a first down is superimposed on the field itself. The real-world elements are the football field and players; the virtual element is the yellow line. We believe see-through wearable displays will enable this kind of experience on Smart Glasses running their own native AR applications, virtually anywhere and anytime. Our Smart Glasses product line can run these kinds of applications natively as they have much of the capabilities of a smartphone built into them, including running full operating systems like Alphabet (Google) Inc.s Android. Our waveguide and display engine products enable our original equipment manufacturer (OEM) customers to develop and market improved wearable products that are mobile so that people have immediate access to information and can experience new forms of communications, entertainment, and social media content. We believe that our waveguide optics and display engines offer a number of significant advantages over other wearable display solutions, including higher contrast, greater power efficiency, less weight, more compact size, and high brightness images for use outdoors. We also believe that our waveguide optics give us a substantial advantage over other competitors optics, including other waveguides because it allows us to produce optics that are fully transparent when off, along with the high brightness required for AR and enterprise Smart Glasses applications. We believe that a key growth area for us is the consumer electronic OEM market. Our potential channels to this market include supplying mass production of waveguide optics and display engines to select third parties to use in their products. We believe that our waveguides and compact display engine technologies are a key differentiator for enabling next generation AR and Smart Glasses hardware for the consumer and enterprise segments because they allow us to make HMDs nearly indistinguishable from regular eyeglasses. We have developed our own intellectual property portfolio that includes patents, over 20 years of manufacturing know-how, and proprietary processes, materials and equipment to create high performance waveguides and near-eye display products. We believe our technology, intellectual property portfolio and position in the marketplace give us a leadership position in AR and Smart Glasses products and waveguide optics and display engine technology. Our History Historically, we have focused on three markets: the consumer markets for gaming, entertainment and mobile video, smart glasses products for enterprise, and rugged mobile displays for defense markets. We introduced our first HMD products over 20 years ago and we have offered numerous product models and versions with ever advancing features and capabilities that have served the three markets. In June 2012, we sold the assets that produced products and provided services to military organizations and defense organizations. Accordingly, we now focus primarily on the enterprise markets and consumer entertainment. We produce both monocular and binocular wearable displays devices that may be simple video viewers that are not smart and others with integrated computers. In early 2014, we started selling M100 Smart Glasses, a new category of smart wearable displays that is aimed at enterprise customers. The M100 includes a wearable computer and has much of the capabilities of a smartphone including wireless internet access, GPS, Android OS and more, and are worn like a pair of glasses. 2 In December 2015, we began shipping the Vuzix iWear Video Headphones (iWear) which included partial support for Virtual Reality (VR) applications. The binocular iWear is worn like a pair of headphones and features dual HD Displays and revolutionary nano-optics that provide the equivalent experience of a 125" home television from 10 feet and allow the wearer to play games, interact with apps, watch 2D, 3D and 360VR movies and even fly drones. iWear is completely portable and battery-driven so that the user can enjoy it at home or on-the-go. In early 2017, we decided to discontinue further production of iWear due to competitive market conditions in the VR HMD marketplace. We expect to sell our remaining stock throughout 2018. At CES in January 2016, we introduced a new prototype model of our monocular Smart Glasses products: the M300 Smart Glasses. The M300 represents our next generation Smart Glasses model with significantly improved ergonomics and technical features, all in a ruggedized form designed specifically for enterprise and industrial use. The M300 Smart Glasses can connect to the cloud to deliver digital content directly to and from the job site and connecting it overlaid onto the real world. In January 2018, we introduced our Vuzix Blade (The Blade) Smart Glasses at CES 2018. The Vuzix Blade received 4 innovation awards at CES and was named Best of CES by several notable media firms including TIME, Rolling Stone, CNET, Fox News, Toms Guide and TechRadar. The Blade provides a wearable AR smart display with a see-through viewing experience utilizing Vuzix' proprietary waveguide optics and Cobra II display engine. Using the Vuzix Blade is like having a computer or smartphone screen information right in front of the user, wherever they go and is designed to allow the user to keep their phone in their pocket. The lightweight (less than 2.8 oz) Blade Smart Glasses are the first smart glasses featuring style, performance and advanced see-through waveguide optics for hands-free computing and connectivity. The Blade is ideal for mobile applications including social media, navigation, artificial intelligence (AI) and HD photography and videography as well as a AR wearable display for the enterprise sector. The Blade also is designed to integrate with AI engines and will ship out of the box with Amazon Alexa, an intelligent personal assistant featuring AI. It is capable of voice interaction, making to-do lists, setting alarms, streaming podcasts, playing audiobooks, taking pictures and providing weather, traffic, and other real-time information. Overall Strategy Our goal is to establish and maintain a leadership position as a worldwide supplier of wearable displays including AR glasses and Smart Glasses solutions. We intend to offer our products across major markets, platforms and applications. We strive to be an innovator in designing wearable display devices that can enable mobile video viewing, general entertainment, social media, enterprise productivity hands-free enhancements and most importantly, AR applications. To maintain and enhance our position as a leading provider of wearable display products for AR, video viewing and smart glasses, we seek to: improve brand name recognition; provide excellent products and service; develop products based on our unique technology for both specialized and large enterprise and consumer markets; broaden and develop strategic relationships and partnerships; offer to sell our products or license our technology to third party companies that would incorporate and sell them as a new product with their own brand name (OEM partners); promote and enhance development of third party software that can take advantage of our products, including offering apps and software through our own app store; communicate the advantages of our proprietary waveguide optics and display engine technologies to the relevant customers in target market sectors and encourage their adoption through demonstrations and incorporation in the offerings of world-class companies; reduce production and overhead costs by further outsourcing while moving to higher margin product offerings; extend our innovative and proprietary technology leadership; enhance and protect our intellectual property portfolio; establish multiple revenue sources; attract and retain highly qualified personnel; and build and maintain strong product design capabilities. Our strategy is also to create leadership position as a worldwide supplier of waveguide optics and virtual imaging technology solutions for applications in high growth segments of the consumer, enterprise and commercial electronics industry by capitalizing on our experience and expertise in wearable displays and the move to AR Smart Glasses for delivering AI, entertainment, work, social media and other applications. We aim to provide waveguides, display engines and complementary optics to enable OEM customers to serve a variety of markets with new enhanced display electronic products. Some key elements of our OEM strategy to achieve these objectives include the following: 3 Develop OEM and mass production partnerships in the consumer AR Smart Glasses market . As consumer mobile electronics markets transition to AR glasses, Vuzix technology is positioned well to address the requirements of this segment. Developing customer partners is key to establishing Vuzix as the market leader for next generation display technologies for the consumer AR Smart Glasses market. In addition, executing on mass production partnerships will position us to capture a market predicted to experience significant growth through the 2020s. Strengthen our technology leadership . As the first to exploit waveguides with miniature display engines, we believe that we enjoy a significant advantage in bringing this technology to the OEM market. By continuing to invest in research and development, and protecting our intellectual property, we expect to further develop performance improvements and provide a competitive edge for our customers who integrate our displays into their end products. Optimize waveguide manufacturing efficiencies while protecting proprietary processes . We intend to further improve our manufacturing yields and lower costs by way of increased automation as well as equipment upgrades. We intend to retain the waveguide design and final mold replication related processes in-house, where we have a core competency and manufacturing expertise. We also believe that by keeping these processes under tight control we can better protect our proprietary technology and process know-how. We believe that this strategy will also enhance our ability to continue to optimize and customize processes and devices to meet customer needs. Build and maintain strong design capabilities . We employ in-house design capabilities supplemented by outsourced design services. Building and maintaining this capability allows us to reduce engineering costs, accelerate the design process and enhance design accuracy to respond to our customers' needs as new markets develop. Given these capabilities, we continue to look for opportunities to add value to our displays to increase revenue. Leverage strategic relationships . External relationships serve an important role in our research and development efforts. Our relationships with suppliers, equipment vendors, contract research groups, external design companies, customer and corporate partners, all enhance our overall research and development effort and bring us new ideas and solutions. The Market The wireless and entertainment industry has evolved considerably, and continues to do so. The mobile phone has evolved into a ubiquitous, location-aware, smart mobile computing device. Mobile technology is redefining the way people interact with their world, both at work and play, and it has become an essential lifestyle management and entertainment tool personalized to users unique needs. We believe that interactive AR content and AI cloud services will significantly change the way mobile products are used and how content is delivered to the user. We believe head worn wearable displays that are hands free and can connect the digital world to the real world have the ability to change the entire paradigm and future of the computing industry. We believe AR based wearable display and Smart Glasses can enable new experiences that cannot be experienced in any other way. Current mobile display technology is almost universally based on direct view screens. These displays for mobility purposes are designed to be small and make portability easy. At the same time, these displays must be held by the user and, depending upon their size, can be difficult for these displays to produce human readable high-resolution content without magnification zooming, which reduces screen resolution, or they must be held at a reasonably close reading distance. Our products are aimed at solving these problems by creating hands-free virtual large screens that are interactive and fit in tiny packages (eyeglasses). Head-wearable displays may block out surroundings for a fully immersive experience, or be designed to "see-through" or "see-around" the user's surroundings. They may contain one (monocular) or two (binocular) displays. We have leveraged our experience in developing wearable display products over the last 20 years and believe this experience will allow us to more rapidly introduce wearable displays suitable for specialized and mass market consumer AR and Smart Glasses applications than our competitors. Our business for the last five years has focused on enterprise and industrial markets and the mobile consumer entertainment markets. The demand for head worn wearable displays in these markets is being driven by such factors as: Increasing demand for Internet, social media, and cloud services access anywhere, anytime; An increasing number of hands-free enterprise, commercial and medical applications for which our products are well suited and, when wearable display products are employed for these use cases, a significant ROI is typically achieved; We believe the growing use of AR applications will drive the need for a head worn wearable display solutions to replace the need to hold up handheld devices to use the applications; We believe applications like the AR Kit and AR Core from Apple and Google are driving this new experience in the mobile space. But the Smart Phone is unnatural and difficult form factor by which to experience AR. We believe that AR Smart Glasses are needed to deliver this experience correctly; and More users are migrating a greater portion of their entertainments and information gathering time to mobile devices. We believe that our Virtual Display technologies can significantly increase user satisfaction and allow for wide spread AR adoption and applications. Target Markets Our target markets and applications by major sector are: 4 Enterprise Our Smart Glasses products are currently focused on the enterprise, industrial and medical markets. These Smart Glasses products run native Android applications within the glasses that, for example, allow them to stream video in real-time, which is very useful for many enterprise applications. We believe that a wide variety of commercial and industrial markets offer significant opportunities for our products due to increasing demand for instant data accessibility in mobile workplace environments and due to the benefit of hands-free mobile displays to enhance visual performance and worker productivity. Our Smart Glasses are being used for numerous applications including: remote camera viewfinder displays and wearable computer displays, viewing of wireless sensor data, quality assurance and assembly check list, providing hands-free access to manuals and other information and for on-site, in-the-field maintenance, warehouse pick and place, servicing, routine quality assurance inspection, real-time viewing of remote images, training and education. Further, Smart Glasses can be used to enhance vision for many people with visual impairments. We have built an eco-system of Value Added Resellers (VARs), established a growing number of system integrators and have garnered infrastructure support from leading mobile device management companies. Consumer We believe that the most significant driver of the longer term wearable display market is the growing consumer demand for mobile access to larger volumes of information and entertainment in smaller and wearable packages. We believe that there is an increasing demand for high-resolution, wearable displays to enjoy content such as videos, movies, entertainment, social media, and the Internet in mobile environments. This desire for mobility has resulted in the development of mobile video personal viewer products in three general categories: (i) immersive Video Eyewear headset-application platforms such as accessories for gaming, video viewing and VR computers; (ii) AR electronic viewers incorporated in products such as data glasses and personal viewers for cell phones; and (iii) smart glasses for enterprise. We also believe that there is a need for wearable display devices for use with desktop or belt-worn computers, consoles, tablets and other gaming products. We believe that viewing mobile device gaming on smaller direct view screens is not a satisfactory experience for many consumers when compared to laptop computers and gaming consoles. Both VR and AR are difficult to implement using traditional desktop computer monitors and televisions but can be successfully implemented with appropriately equipped wearable displays. Many of our wearable display products can enable both AR and VR applications for the end user. We also believe that there is a growing need for active smart phone users to be able to keep their phones in their pocket and at the same time allow location-aware content from the web merged with the real world. For example, while a user walks down the street, they could get directions and a Yelp score for the restaurant they are looking at; all within the view of their glasses. All of this can be achieved by leaving the phone in their pocket. As we manufacture our waveguides and display engines in higher volumes at reduced costs and capitalize on our waveguide manufacturing technology, we believe that our products will be increasingly well-positioned to compete with other see-through optics and displays and cell phone size displays in the rapidly growing consumer market, particularly as demand expands for sophisticated mobile personal viewers offering higher resolution and better image quality for AR and Smart Glasses applications. We believe our waveguide and display engine technology addresses the critical performance parameters for next generation AR products, including higher brightness, sharper resolution, true see-through capabilities, compact size, lower power consumption and longer life. AR for all Markets We offer smart wearable display products that enable development and deployment of AR applications. AR Smart Glasses enable its wearer to see computer-generated information, graphics or images projected into the real-world environment or upon an object that the user is observing. Thus, whether in the warehouse, on the factory floor, or in-the-field, users while wearing the AR Smart Glasses may access a manual, tutorial, or image that is connected to the task at hand which will assist them in completing that task, while also viewing their current surroundings and nearby objects. We anticipate AR applications will be employed in the following areas: Field service, warehousing, and maintenance; Quality assurance; Inspections in the field or on the plant floor; Task support for industrial, manufacturing and medical applications; Advanced navigation both for the enterprise and consumer markets; Social networking; Location and scene based entertainment and education applications; Cloud based AI services delivery; Mobile commerce and visual search applications; and Real time language translation. Additional possible applications of AR-enabled Smart Glasses for consumer use include hands-free alerts, messaging, location and context aware information and social interaction. 5 Products We now produce and sell two main types of wearable display products: AR Smart Glasses for a variety of enterprise and commercial users and applications, including AR; and Video Viewing glasses, for on-the-go users as mobile displays for entertainment and gaming. Our products are available with varying features, including with and without integrated computer processors, and are offered as either monocular or binocular display systems. Our AR Smart Glasses have many of the capabilities of a smartphone such as cameras and computer processors that can allow applications to be run directly in the AR Smart Glasses, enabling cloud connected applications through a wireless link directly with the glasses. We believe we provide one of the broadest range of wearable display products for AR and Smart Glasses available in the market and that our products contain some of the most advanced electronics, ergonomics, and optics for their respective target markets and uses. Our products include: Binocular Wearable Display Products Our binocular wearable display products offered over the last 10 years have included several models with differing native resolutions, virtual screen sizes and various interface options before we standardized our current digital video interfaces. Our binocular wearable displays products contain two microdisplays (a separate display for each eye), typically mounted in a frame attached to eyeglass-style temples or stereo headphones. These products enable mobile and hands-free private viewing of video content on screens that simulate home theater-sized screens, all of which support 3D video applications. These products can be employed as mobile high-resolution displays with products such as smartphones with video output capability, laptop computers, tablet computers, portable DVD/Blu-Ray players, game consoles and personal digital media/video players. Our current model, the iWear Video Headphones, which was first released in December 2015 is being phased out and will be discontinued during 2018. Our focus is now on waveguide based AR products which can produce many of the same functions as iWear but in a more eyeglass framework. Monocular Wearable Display Products Monocular products, due to their single eye display, are best used for push notifications and information snacking. Typically, monocular products have smaller fields of view that result in less information display capability and no stereoscopic 3D or depth information. In early 2014, we began selling our first monocular pair of Smart Glasses, the M100, which was designed for the enterprise, industrial, commercial and medical markets. The Vuzix M100 Smart Glasses are an Android-based wearable computer, enhanced with a wearable monocular display and onboard processor and wireless connectivity capabilities designed primarily for commercial, professional, and industrial users. Vuzix M100 Smart Glasses serve up the digital world hands free, offering access to information, data collection and more. The M100 provides enhancements to existing workflows and opens new opportunities in industrial, medical, retail, supply chain, remote help desk, and many more aspects of customers businesses. An integrated head tracking, GPS system, camera and speech recognition gives versatility to navigate and use the M100 in almost any working environment. Its pre-installed apps can be used to record and playback still pictures and video, track timed events, manage a users calendar, link to a phone and more. At the January 2017 CES tradeshow, we introduced the second generation pre-production model of our monocular Smart Glasses product, the M300, with significantly improved ergonomics, ruggedness and technical features. The M300 is a ruggedized form designed specifically for enterprise and industrial use. The M300 entered volume production and became commercially available in spring 2017. The second model, the M3000 was honored at CES 2017 for its innovative design and engineering, and is our next-generation waveguide based AR Smart Glasses for the enterprise sector. The M3000 features improved display resolution and employs our advanced waveguide optics and Cobra II projector engine that allow see-through operation for more advanced AR applications. The M3000 uses many of the same components as the new M300 and we expect to begin commercial production of it by fall 2018. Both of these smart glasses can connect to the cloud to deliver digital content directly to and from the job site and connecting it overlaid onto the real world. We introduced the Blade Smart Sunglasses as a monocular system at CES 2018. We believe the Vuzix Blade is the natural evolution of AR glasses providing the user with the wide range of features and capabilities in a natural glasses form factor that we believe people will want to wear. From basic text messaging and answering the phone to overlaying mapping directions, menus, weather, events, stocks, video conferencing, sports updates, social feeds, bio-metrics and more, right in front of the user, literally. The intuitive and feature packed Vuzix Blade OS allows the user to simply and intuitively navigate via simple swipes and taps, or leverage voice controls and external AI systems. This allows users to leave their phones in their pockets for most functions and adds the ability to connect the information being presented to the real world, including that from cloud based AI platforms such as Amazon Alexa. We believe the Blade Smart Glasses is the first natural step to replacing the smart phone with a ubiquitous wearable device for all. While the Vuzix M300 smart glasses are the device of choice in many enterprise deployments, there is a sector of business, especially B2C, in which the form factor is a deterrent. Visual appearance and portability are crucial requirements when it comes to servicing retail customers in big box retail chains, supermarkets, restaurants, department stores, and other client facing work environments. The Vuzix Blade with its fashionable form factor and all-day wear-ability fills this gap. For the enterprise user, the Vuzix Blade will pair with the smart phone or connect directly to a Wi-Fi network, allowing for custom secure industrial applications. Although not as powerful as the stand alone Vuzix M300 smart glasses, we expect the Vuzix Blade to open new and organic growth opportunities within the enterprise space. We are currently also developing a binocular AR Smart Glasses product with 3D and stereo cameras that we expect to introduce sometime in 2019. Future AR Smart Glasses versions will include increased resolutions and fields of view, more powerful computers and our thin waveguide see-through optics. 6 AR Products AR wearable displays provide the user a live, direct or indirect, view of a physical, real-world environment whose elements are augmented by computer generated sensory input such as sound, video, graphics or GPS data. Such systems also contain head tracking technology, which enables the user to look around the environment being viewed by moving his or her head which in turn sends that information back to the computer which then adjusts the computer-generated AR image accordingly. AR wearable displays typically include built-in cameras that can be used to overlay images connected to the real world as well as measure and track gestures and the physical environment of the AR wearer. Our AR Smart Glasses are an intelligent wearable computing system specifically designed to enable computing and connecting AR cloud/internet of things information and AI to the real world. The embedded cameras in our Smart Glasses are used for recording and/or seeing the real world. Input and control of our smart glasses consist of using the wirelessly connected smartphone, gesture sensor, speech recognition voice control, a series of built in sensors for head motion and in some cases gesture sensors. We are building an eco-system of developers around these smart glasses and anticipate that most of the software being developed can be used on future generations of our smart glasses. Cloud or internet-connected Smart Glasses applications are being created for manufacturing, medical, field maintenance and repair, training, gaming and social media uses for both our monocular and binocular Smart Glasses product lines. Applications for Smart Glasses VUZIX Basics is a new product line offering that we introduced in December 2017. Vuzix Basics are essential out-of-the-box applications optimized for use with the growing lineup of Vuzix AR Smart Glasses, including the Vuzix M300 industrial smart glasses and the Vuzix Blade. VUZIX Basics are standard applications, designed to be simple to get started, simple to use, and apps we believe can immediately provide the fundamental benefits of Smart Glasses to novice and expert users alike. The first application in the platform, VUZIX Basics Video, provides remote telepresence capabilities, otherwise known as see-what-I-see video collaboration, enabling an operator, mechanic, field technician or consultant to communicate in a hands-free manner with a remote expert to drive just in time video support of a process or repair. VUZIX Basics Video enables clients to multiply their expert workforce, eliminate the high costs of travel, improve customer service levels and equipment operation and accelerate knowledge transfer and training. We believe the launch of VUZIX Basics Video addresses an underserved portion of the enterprise space by providing an affordable and standard solution for expert collaboration to companies worldwide. We are planning to develop several more VUZIX Basics applications around work instructions and plant floor operations. VUZIX Basics application are being offered on a subscription basis. App Store for Smart Glasses We also have an App Store on our websites where users can download and purchase Smart Glasses applications, including third party apps. We are fostering the development of an ecosystem of third party developers to offer applications and trials for their smart glasses apps, and many will be sold on an industry common revenue share model. The Vuzix third party developer community will be able leverage the open Android platform of the Vuzix M300 and the Vuzix Blade to bring new and creative ideas to life. Supported by Vuzix new App Store, developers can offer or sell their applications to all Vuzix Smart Glasses users, expanding into an ecosystem of AR applications for real world use today. The App store supports free, onetime fee, and paid subscription monetization models. Waveguide Optics and Design Reference Kits We selectively offer waveguide optics and related coupling optics combined with our compact Cobra II display engine to form a see-through display module. We sell our waveguide optic design reference kits to select qualified potential OEMs/ODMs, which include a Cobra II projector, waveguide optics and associated electronics, to help these customers evaluate our technologies and to assist their efforts to build and test new products incorporating our proprietary solutions. We have shipped these customized modules to numerous customers, some of which may soon incorporate our products into their own commercial products. Our strategy for addressing the consumer mass market includes developing partnerships with both select consumer companies and select high volume production manufacturing companies. Custom Solutions and Engineering Solutions We have in the past provided fully integrated wearable display systems, including head mounted displays, human computer interface devices, near-eye display related engineering services and wearable computers to commercial, industrial and defense customers. As a result of the sale our defense division in June 2012, we no longer pursue general engineering services work with defense or security organizations. In February 2017 we entered into a development agreement with Toshiba to create a customized Window-based USB-C Type C AR Smart Glasses offering for Toshiba, which is a derivative product of the Vuzix M300 Smart Glasses. Throughout 2017 our design teams created an entirely new Vuzix product for Toshiba. We have delivered hundreds of engineering and development units and have begun volume manufacturing for Toshiba to fulfill their initial orders under our 3-year supply agreement, which was previously announced by Vuzix in December 2017. 7 Product Development We believe that continued introduction of new products in our target markets is essential to our growth. Our products tend to have two to three-year life cycles. We have assembled a group of highly skilled engineers who work internally as well as with external consultants and our customers to continue our product development efforts. Our primary development efforts are focused on waveguide optics (and their manufacture), projection engines, displays, low-power electronic designs, firmware and wearable software, and the design and ergonomics of wearable displays. Our display product development efforts are focused towards continually enhancing the resolution, performance and manufacturability of our display products. During 2017, 2016 and 2015, we invested $6,706,690, $6,947,878 and $3,595,437, respectively, on research and development activities. We expect to increase our research and development expenditures in the future and as our revenues grow. We have also acquired and licensed technologies developed by third parties and we may continue to do so in the future. Technology We believe that it is important to make substantial investments in research and development to maintain our competitive advantage. The development and procurement of intellectual property rights relating to our technologies is a key aspect of our business strategy. We believe that it is now technologically feasible to improve upon the weight, ergonomics, optical performance, see-through capabilities, luminance, power efficiency, compactness, field of view and resolution of the current generation of virtual displays and display components. Early technology adopters have been the majority of the purchasers of our consumer wearable display products to date and similarly within the enterprise customer base for our Smart Glasses. However, our near-eye virtual display technology has been gradually improving in performance and we believe is starting to meet the high expectations of both the enterprise and the consumer mass markets with respect to screen resolution, computer power, image size and ergonomics. We expect to continue to improve our products through our ongoing research and development and advancements made by our third-party suppliers of key components. We also develop intellectual property through our ongoing performance under engineering service contracts. We intend to continue to pursue select development contracts for applications that enhance our waveguide optics and other display technology. Our policy is to retain our proprietary rights with respect to the principal commercial applications of our technology under any engineering services work we perform, whenever possible. However, in certain circumstances where the end finished product may be co-branded with the OEM, we may offer the OEM customer exclusivity, for a product or for a geography for a limited period, as we our doing with Toshiba Client Solutions, who received a 12 month product exclusivity for that particular smart glasses model, which is co-branded, subject to their purchase of minimum quantities. We believe that the range of our proprietary technologies gives us a significant competitive advantage. Our technologies relate to advanced optics systems including passive and active see-through imaging waveguides; micro-projection display engines; high resolution scanning displays; motion tracking systems; and specialized software drivers and applications for video eyewear displays. We also have a portfolio of trade secrets and expertise in nano-imprinting using quartz mold substrates, nano structure embossing, and engineering tool sets for the design and manufacturing of diffractive waveguide optics. We believe that display engines are also important for commercializing wearable displays. We have developed a proprietary micro digital light processing (DLP) based engine called the Cobra II and are working on laser modulated and LED engines designed specifically for our waveguide optics solutions. These next generation waveguides and display engines have allowed us to shrink the entire assembly to fit in the space available in a typical off-the-shelf pair of sports sunglasses. We anticipate launching several new waveguide based products in 2018 and beyond, with the first being our CES 2018 Innovation Award winning Blade Smart Glasses. We entered into a technology license agreement with Nokia Corporation in August 2011 for their Exit Pupil Expanding (EPE) optics technology. This agreement was amended in October 2017 to allow us more flexibility with sub-licensing and preferable royalty terms. Under these agreements, we perform on-going research and development on the EPE optics and are expected to manufacture and bring to market components and products containing the licensed technology. In addition, we will provide Nokia with the ability to purchase products and components which incorporate the licensed technology. The EPE technology is an important foundation of our diffraction based waveguide optics technology. In October 2017 we acquired certain IP and patent applications from the inventor/seller related to holographic optics and display engines for image and wave field projection through a diffusive media. This technology is still in active development with a goal of creating functional demonstrator models within 24 months. Major technologies that we employ in our products include: Microdisplay optics represent a significant cost of goods for both us and our competitors. This cost is a function of the physical size of the microdisplay and the cost of the supporting optics. Smaller microdisplays are less expensive to produce but they require larger and more sophisticated optics to make solutions that have no user adjustments, large fields of view and very low distortion specifications. Larger displays require less magnification and less complex optics, but these optics become very bulky and the displays are significantly more expensive to manufacture. To improve our wearable displays fashion and ergonomics, we are developing thin and lightweight optics that can be integrated with very small microdisplays that we expect will closely match conventional eyewear frames in size and weight. These new optics and displays provide what we believe are significantly improved ergonomics compared to competing wearable display solutions. 8 See-Through Waveguides: We have developed a range of patents and patents pending around our see-through waveguides. We are developing passive, dynamic and diffractive optics based waveguides that are the basis for some of our future slim wearable display AR and smart glasses products. Our dynamic waveguides use index modulated liquid crystal material to switch beam steering gratings built in a thin glass window to scan an image into the users eye. We are also developing passive optical display engines that use the approximately 1.2 mm thick see-through blade of glass or plastic waveguide with an ultra-compact micro display engine to magnify and focus the light from a display into a users eye. The development goal with these waveguides is to create AR based wearable displays that will appear to others as practically indistinguishable from todays conventional sunglasses by most every measure, including comfort, size, weight and ergonomics. Custom Display Engines: We have patents and patents pending on modulated laser based display engines and IP around micro DLP display engines. Our Cobra II micro DLP engine is one of the smallest volume engines built around DLPs. We are also performing research and development work on laser engines to drive scanned images into holograms, with the goal of such systems to offer next generation waveguides capable of 100 plus degree fields of view. Both the display engine and waveguide optic combine into a single monolithic design that we believe will enable us to produce low cost, HD resolution displays in a form factor that will be integrated into frames similar in size to ordinary sunglasses. Our upcoming M3000 Smart Glasses and Blade Smart Glasses will both utilize the Cobra II DLP engine and latest waveguide optics. Nanoimprinting: We continue to develop a portfolio of trade secrets and expertise in nanoimprinting used in our waveguide optics. We believe these technologies are essential to the production of our approximately 1.2 mm thick see-through lenses which we believe are the cornerstone to making fashionable eyeglass-styled Smart Glasses. We have developed technology for waveguide design and production including: tool design and creation; custom designed software for grating structures and layout; lithography processes; high index low shrinkage polymers and other materials; mold treatments, automation equipment and test/QA processes and procedures, to name a few. System level Engineering: To design wearable display solutions that are the size of conventional eyeglasses requires an integrated approach. No single piece of technology can stand on its own. Vuzix engineering teams work together to integrate optics, electronics, displays, industrial design and more to solve some of the biggest challenges in the wearable display engineering chain. The level of integration between these disciplines is significant and has resulted in new intellectual properties for Vuzix that we believe set us ahead of the competition. All of these items need to be taken into account individually and as a whole to create designs that allow the technology to disappear in a pair of glasses. Patents and other Intellectual Property We have an intellectual property policy which has as its objectives: (i) the development of new intellectual property to further our intellectual property position in relation to personal display technology; and (ii) the maintenance and protection of our valuable trade secrets and know-how. We seek to further achieve these objectives through the education and training of our engineering staff and the adoption of appropriate systems, policies and procedures for the creation, identification and protection of intellectual property. Our general practice is to file patent applications for our technology in the United States, Europe, Japan, and in additional countries, including Canada and China for inventions which we believe have the greatest potential. We file and prosecute our patent applications in pursuit of the most extensive fields of protection possible including, where appropriate, the application of the relevant technology to the broader display industry. We believe that our intellectual property portfolio, coupled with our key supplier relationships and accumulated experience in the personal display field, gives us an advantage over potential competitors. We also believe our copyrights, trademarks, and patents are critical to our success, and we intend to maintain and protect these. We also rely on proprietary technology, trade secrets, and know-how which are not patented. To protect our rights in these areas, we require all employees and, where appropriate, contractors, consultants, advisors and collaborators, to enter into confidentiality, invention assignment and non-competition agreements. Our technologies enable us to provide low-cost, small form factor, high-resolution wearable display products. To protect our technologies, we have developed a patent portfolio which currently consists of 63 issued U.S. and foreign patents and 46 pending U.S. and foreign patent applications. We are also currently preparing several invention disclosures for the purposes of submitting design and utility patent applications. Our U.S. and foreign patents expire on various dates from May 13, 2017 to July 6, 2041. In addition, in connection with our sale of our defense division in 2012, we received a worldwide, royalty free, assignable grant-back license to all the patents and other intellectual property sold for use in the manufacture and sale of products in the consumer markets. In addition to our various patents, we have 6 registered U.S. trademarks and 41 trademark registrations worldwide. Competitors and Competitive Advantage The near-eye or personal display and mobile device industry in which we operate is highly competitive and evolving rapidly. We compete against both direct view display technology in smart phones and tablets and wearable display technology. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the personal display industry include image size, image quality, image resolution, power efficiency, manufacturing cost, weight and dimension, feature implementation, AR capabilities, ergonomics, style, hands free capabilities and, finally, the interactive capabilities of the overall display system. 9 Many of our competitors products for mobile use are based on direct view display systems in which the user views the display device, or screen, directly without magnification. These products have several disadvantages compared to near-eye virtual displays and our wearable display products. If the screens are large enough to read a full conventional internet page or HD video without external magnification or image zooming, the products must be large and bulky, such as laptops, tablets, personal computers. If the displays are small, such as those incorporated in smartphones and smart watches, the screens can be difficult to read when displaying higher resolution content. Despite the limitations of direct view personal displays, smartphones, smart watches and other wearables are being produced in ever increasing volumes by a number of manufacturers, including Google (Alphabet), Sony, Blackberry, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., LG Electronics, Apple Inc., Microsoft, Garmin, Fitbit, focused firms, and many others. The displays on the latest smart phone and tablets are larger and very high resolution and thanks to touch zoom-in capabilities and improved internet content formatting are proving effective as mobile direct view personal displays for a variety of applications, including many that were once considered applications where Video Eyewear was superior. We expect that these large and well-funded companies, as well as newer entrants into the marketplace, will make products that are competitive with ours based on improvements to their existing direct view display technologies or on new technologies. Examples of new display technology include foldable displays, e-ink, flexible OMLEDs, see-through LCD displays and laser scanners and projectors. Aside from direct view displays, we also have competitors who produce near eye personal displays, or wearable displays. For the past decade most of these products were mainly low-resolution, bulky in size, poor ergonomically, costly, and heavy in their power requirements. Additionally, the introduction of smart phone holders in goggle-worn systems like the Samsung Gear VR, Google Daydream, and other manufacturers, provide yet another view for users to get a very large screen experience from a 5 to 6 smart phone screen, but using the phone this way causes it to lose most of its functionality as a smart phone. Competition - Binocular Video Viewer Wearable Display Products Vuzix competitors in the binocular wearable display space using microdisplays either include or have included Carl Zeiss, Seiko Epson (Epson), Sony, Avegant, Osterhout Design Group (ODG), and Fat Shark. Many of these firms have discontinued their efforts while others have introduced VR viewers themselves. We believe these competitive products have received limited customer acceptance due to their bulky and non-user-friendly designs as video viewers but have become more acceptable for immersive VR experiences. There are a number of smaller companies that have products that have competed using binocular display modules (BDM) produced by Kopin Corporation as an OEM. Other companies that have stated their intention to enter this market when their product development is complete with either finished products or components with optics and display engines are Lumus and Microvision Corporation. As an alternative to microdisplay based head worn display systems, most manufacturers have moved to using larger display panels that are typically found in smart phones. A Facebook unit, Oculus has been shipping its large field of view VR goggle HMD called the Oculus Rift since 2016. HTC that same year introduced it higher-end VR system called the HTC Vive. Sony after dropping their HMZ video viewer product, released on October 2016 its PlayStation VR goggle system specifically for its PlayStation 4 game console. All three companies have announced new improved VR goggles systems for 2018 with improved performance and reduced pricing. Additionally, numerous manufacturers now offer head worn goggle attachments for smart phones that are designed to be used for VR applications. These devices contain simple optics that allow the user to insert their smart phone into the device and view their phone screen very close to their eyes and can offer an inexpensive way for owners of compatible smart phones to experience virtual reality. These products are generally priced under $100 and include a wireless controller to allow the wearer to navigate and play VR games. We believe all these units are very bulky relative to the wearers head, offer limited, but improving resolution to each eye, and often have less than clear optical performance across their viewing area. While acceptable for VR games and 360 videos, they are less than satisfactory as a big-screen video viewer or computer display due to screen-door and other optical distortions. We expect that, as the market grows and matures and as the technology becomes more refined, more companies may compete with us. Another product incorporating recently developed technology is a handheld projector that utilizes micro-displays and optics to project digital images onto any nearby viewing surface, such as a wall. These devices are referred to as pocket projectors or pico projectors and are designed to overcome the limitations of the native small screen on smartphones and other mobile devices. Pico projectors use either liquid crystal on silicon displays (LCOS) or color lasers to create their image. We believe pico projectors have had higher unit sales to date than wearable display primarily because of their cost advantage and higher resolutions. Competition AR Glasses In the AR markets, there are few competitors with most of this market currently pointed at the high-end and researcher markets. Companies either offering products or intending to do so in this area include the Microsoft Hololens, Meta, ODG, Sony, Epson, Atheer, Darqri, Magic Leap and CastAR. Today many of these products are fairly bulky and tethered to an external controller. Many are being sold as AR Smart Glasses and are currently targeted at enterprise and academic researchers. The most complete and functional systems today are Hololens and the ODG products and these systems cost of $2,000 - $3,500 per unit. Microsoft has indicated they are working on their next version of Hololens, expected in 2019. 10 Magic Leap, a well-funded startup has announced its intention to release developer versions of its Magic Leap One creator edition in late 2018 at an expected price of over $1500. Further, industry bloggers have speculated that companies such as Apple and Google may offer or support AR wearable display products in the future, but, to date, no specific product launch details have been officially announced. Competition - Monocular Smart Glasses and Wearable Display Products Although several companies produce monocular wearable displays, we believe that sales of their products to date have been limited. To date, the market opportunity for monocular products other than night vision products has been limited primarily to trial tests and smaller rollouts in enterprise markets rather than broad commercial volume purchases. Competitors in these markets have or include Liteye Systems, Inc., Lumus, Shimadzu Corporation, Sony, Kopin, Zebra Technologies (inclusive of business unit formerly part of Motorola), Creative Display Systems, Brother, Google, Garmin, BAE Systems, Six-15 Technologies, LLC (the purchaser of our defense division), Lenovo, Optinvent, Realwear, Rockwell and Collins, Inc.. Googles wearable display device, named Google Glass, was a headset product with similar form and function to our M100 Smart Glasses. In 2015, Google stopped selling its first version of Glass and then launched a refreshed version called Glass Enterprise. Several Japanese electronics companies including Hitachi, Murata, Sony, Westunitis, and Olympus have or had announced monocular smart glass systems for industry. There are also several Chinese based companies that have been showing monocular smart glasses products, including Lenovo but their sales activities thus far have been somewhat limited and focused on Asia. We expect that we will encounter competition in the future from major consumer electronics companies and suppliers of imaging and information products for defense applications. There is competition in all classes of products manufactured by us, including from divisions of large companies and many small companies. Our sales do not represent a significant share of the market for any class of products. The principal points of competition for these products include, among other factors: price, product performance, the availability of supporting applications, the experience and brand name of the particular company and history of its dealings in such products. We believe that our monocular products match or exceed the display products currently offered by our competitors. Sales and Marketing Sales Our strategy is to sell our products and components both directly and through distributors and value added resellers (VARs) and on a select basis to OEMs. As a result, we have distinct strategies for the sales of our products. In the Smart Glasses and AR markets, we are currently focused on the enterprise space and as such are building strategic marketing relationships with software firms to address and support enterprise customers. We are in parallel developing a VAR network with leading companies in various vertical markets from warehousing to field service to medical. As these VARs finish their value added software and services offerings, we expect them to roll out their finished solutions to their customer base. Some VARs, after qualification, are being designated a Vuzix Industrial Partner or VIP. Such VIP partners gain early access to our new Smart Glasses hardware, receive first access to the initial commercial shipments, and get access to co-marketing support, discounts and much more. We are also supporting select larger key accounts with our in-house direct sales team. For our smart glasses, we are also developing an ecosystem with application developers from around the world. We have introduced our own hosted application store where our Smart Glass customers can download and purchase applications and software developer kits. We have and continue to host developer hackathon events with partner companies like NTT docomo. We currently sell our products internationally through resellers, online stores and various Vuzix operated web stores in Europe and Japan. Our international focus is currently on Japan and the EU. In Japan, we have a branch sales and service office in Tokyo, and a small warehouse outside of Tokyo. We employ two full-time staff in Japan. We have a wholly owned subsidiary, Vuzix (Europe) Limited, through which we conduct our business in the EU and Middle Eastern markets. Resellers in 50 countries placed orders with us during the last two years. We maintain a small European sales office in Oxford, England staffed by two sales consultants as well as a further sales consultant who is located in Spain. For customer support and warehousing, we have contracted with a third-party end user technical support firm and fulfillment center to service our customers in the EU. We intend to primarily provide our waveguide and miniature display engine modules and optics components to select OEMs to incorporate into their branded products and sell through their own well-established distribution channels. An OEM/ODM design cycle typically requires between 6 and 18 months, depending on the uniqueness of the market, and the complexity of the end product. Because our waveguides and display engines are the main functional component that defines the imaging as well as look and feel of many of our potential OEM customers' end products, we intend to work closely with these customers to provide technical assistance throughout their product evaluation and any eventual integration process. 11 We believe that the technical nature of our potential OEM products such as waveguides and display projectors with microdisplays, demands close relationships with such customers. Our sales and marketing staff, assisted by our technical staff and senior management, visit prospective and existing customers worldwide on a regular basis. We believe these contacts are vital to the development of a close, long-term working relationship with our OEM customers, and in obtaining regular forecasts, market updates and information regarding technical and market trends. We also participate in industry specific trade shows and conferences. Marketing Our marketing and sales group in conjunction with external firms is responsible for product management, planning, advertising, marketing communications, and public relations. We have both internal and external public relations efforts in the U.S. and UK. We also employ marketing firms to help prepare brochures, packaging, tradeshow messaging and advertising campaigns, again focused on either the consumer or enterprise markets. Most of our products are currently sold under the Vuzix brand name. Toshibas AR100, based on our M300 Smart Glasses is our first co-branded product. We seek to have Vuzix become known as one of the premier suppliers of wearable display products for video viewing, smart and AR glasses. We plan to undertake specific marketing activities as needed, including, but not limited to: product reviews, case studies and promotions in trade publications; case studies on successful enterprise uses of Smart Glasses and AR; product and technology views for our website and social media; enhancement and maintenance of our Website, Web Store and Social Media sites; internet and web page advertising and targeted emails; public relations; and trade shows and event sponsorships. Consumer Marketing We engage in select marketing efforts that are intended to drive customers to our products and to grow awareness of our AR Smart Glasses and wearable displays in general. Public relations and product videos are an important aspect of our marketing and we intend to continue to distribute samples of our products to key industry participants. We intend to focus our marketing efforts for the next 12 months on: distinguishing our AR Smart Glasses products from current competitors and by offering products with superior performance and advanced optics to those of our competitors; working with third party software developers to support the unique capabilities of our new products; and creating brand awareness with the press and general public of Vuzix and its products, with particular emphasis on our new forthcoming waveguide based products. Our wearable display products are currently primarily sold directly to consumers and at times through select specialty retailers and online retailers such as Amazon, and through third party North American distributors including D&H. Our monocular Smart Glasses are sold through valued added resellers, direct to end customers, and through our webstore. Our website, www.vuzix.com is an important part of our direct sales efforts. Engineering Services and OEM Products We primarily respond to sales inquiries for our engineering services programs and OEM component requests directly and usually in response to inbound inquiries. We do not typically offer works for hire services at Vuzix but rather offer our services to opportunities that could result in advancing our technology or end up in a long-term supply or OEM relationship. We believe we have established a solid reputation for quality, performance and innovation for wearable virtual display systems that will be attractive to many types of commercial users that want to leverage our services and products within their businesses. Our design and engineering staff are actively involved with customers during all phases of prototype design through production by providing engineering data, up-to-date product application notes, regular follow-up and technical assistance. Post CES 2018 we have received an influx of inbound requests for engagement related to our proprietary waveguide optics and miniature display engines from some of the worlds largest consumer and mobile electronics firms. We are now engaged with a list of major consumer electronic companies that have started building and/or are currently evaluating hardware designs and product roadmaps which incorporate Vuzix waveguide optics technology. Our business strategy is to commercialize our waveguide and display engine technologies and products to permit select ODMs and OEMs to integrate and embed our technology and products in a way that best matches their unique capabilities and timeline for bringing their products to market. 12 Manufacturing We purchase product components from our suppliers, engage third party contract manufacturing firms to perform electronic circuit board and cable assemblies, and have the final assembly of our products done primarily in China at our contract manufacturer there. In the past we have built products ourselves in our Rochester, New York based facility. We are experienced in the successful production of our products in moderate volumes. We expect to only perform, at most the final assembly of our new AR Smart Glasses products ourselves on a test or start-up basis before considering a move offshore, however we expect to manufacture all our waveguide optics at our West Henrietta, New York facility. We believe that using outsourced manufacturing enables greater scale and flexibility at lower costs than establishing our own manufacturing facilities. We evaluate our current contract manufacturers and component suppliers on an ongoing basis, including whether or not to utilize new or alternative contract manufacturers or component suppliers. We currently purchase almost all of the microdisplays used in our products from Kopin, Texas Instruments and Omnivision. Our relationship with these microdisplay suppliers is generally on a purchase order basis and none have a contractual obligation to provide adequate supply or acceptable pricing to us on a long-term basis. We have operated this way successfully for over a decade with these suppliers. Our Cobra II display engine is based on our proprietary design and is exclusively manufactured for us by a firm in Asia and it incorporates a DLP engine from Texas Instruments. We expect to have a formal supply agreement in place soon. We generally procure our other non-microdisplay components and products from our vendors on a purchase order basis without any long-term commitments. Many of the raw materials used in our components are standard to the consumer electronics industry. We provide forecasts that allow our contract manufacturers to stock component parts and other materials and plan capacity. Our contract manufacturers procure raw materials in volumes consistent with our forecasts, manufacture and/or assemble the products and perform tests according to our specifications. In some cases we procure some specific components and either sell them or consign them to our contract manufacturers. Products are either shipped to our customers or shipped to our West Henrietta, New York headquarters to be inventoried as finished goods. We currently use several Asian manufacturing sources, where we have located some of our tooling. While we do not manufacture our components, we own the tooling that is used to make our custom components. Some of our accessory products are sourced from third parties as finished goods. We typically have them print our Vuzix brand name on these products if they are co-branded. Such, third party products represented less than 5% of our sales in last three fiscal years. Our manufacturing is not currently subject to seasonal variations, but in the future, depending on our customers' product mix, we may be affected by seasonal fluctuations which could affect working capital demands. We work with a third-party fulfillment partner in the EU that deliver our products to customers in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa, which allows us to reduce order fulfillment time, reduce shipping costs, and improve inventory flexibility. Backlog There is a relatively short cycle between order and shipment of our sales. Most purchase orders we receive are subject to rescheduling or cancellation by the customer with no or limited penalties. In regards to sales of custom products and waveguides to our OEM customers, we believe that the backlog metric is of limited utility in predicting future sales because all these OEM customers operate on a ship-to-order basis. Therefore, we believe at this time that backlog information is not material to the understanding of our business. Employees As of March 16, 2018, we had 61 full-time employees in North America: 6 in sales and marketing, distribution, and customer service; 31 in research and development and engineering services support; 12 in manufacturing, operations and purchasing; 1 in quality assurance; 1 in investor relations; and 10 in accounting, management, IT, and administration. We also work with a group of sub-contractors, mainly for industrial and mechanical design assistance in the Rochester, New York area. To further our waveguide research development, we work with various commercial and academic researchers in the United States and Finland. In Japan, we have 2 full-time employees and in the Europe we have 2 full-time contractors in England and 1 in Spain to manage our European sales and marketing activities. Information about Geographic Revenue Information about geographic revenue is described in Note 17, Geographic and Other Financial Information in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. History - Corporate We were incorporated in Delaware in 1997 as VR Acquisition Corp. In 1997, we acquired substantially all of the assets of Forte Technologies, Inc. (Forte), which was engaged in the manufacture and sale of Virtual Reality headsets and the development of related technologies. Forte was originally owned and controlled by Kopin, our main current microdisplay supplier. Most of the technologies developed by Forte are now owned and used by us. 13 Reference in this report to Vuzix, the Company, we, us, our and similar words refer to Vuzix Corporation and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. Item 1A Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. An investor should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this annual report, before making an investment decision. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer as a result of these risks. In that case, the market value of our securities could decline, and an investor may lose all or part of his or her investment. Risks Related to Our Business We have incurred net losses since our inception and may continue to incur losses. We reported a net loss of $19,663,502 for the year ended December 31, 2017, we reported a net loss of $19,250,082 for the year ended December 31, 2016, and we reported a net loss of $13,427,478 for the year ended December 31, 2015. We have an accumulated deficit of $96,472,452 as of December 31, 2017 and had an accumulated deficit of $76,838,950 as of December 31, 2016. We may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We will need to increase sales in order to achieve and maintain profitability. In addition, we expect that our expenses relating to product development and research, sales and marketing, as well as our general and administrative costs, may increase. If we do not soon achieve and maintain profitability, our financial condition will ultimately be materially and adversely affected and we would eventually be required to raise additional capital. We may not be able to raise any necessary capital on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we fail to achieve or maintain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis within the timeframe expected by investors, the market price of our common stock may decline. In preparing our consolidated financial statements, our management determined that our disclosure