Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Business. Forward-looking statements include statements concerning: our possible or assumed future results of operations; our business strategies; our ability to attract and retain customers; our ability to sell additional products and services to customers; our cash needs and financing plans; our competitive position; our industry environment; our potential growth opportunities; expected technological advances by us or by third parties and our ability to leverage them; the effects of future regulation; and the effects of competition. All statements in this annual report that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. We may, in some cases, use terms such as anticipates, believes, could, estimates, expects, intends, may, plans, potential, predicts, projects, should, will, would or similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are made based on managements beliefs, estimates and opinions on the date the statements are made and we undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements if these beliefs, estimates and opinions or other circumstances should change, except as may be required by applicable law. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. PART I Item 1. Business Company Overview We are engaged in the design, manufacture, marketing and sale of wearable display devices also referred to as head mounted displays (or HMDs), in the form of Augmented Reality (AR) glasses, Virtual Reality (VR) glasses and Smart Glasses. (These devices are also known as, Video Eyewear, head mounted wearable displays, video glasses, personal viewers, near-eye virtual displays, and near-eye displays or NEDs). Our wearable display devices are worn like eyeglasses and contain a varying degree of features such as built-in video screens and audio. These devices also often include cameras, sensors, and a computer, that enable the user to view and interact with video and digital content, such as movies, computer data, the Internet or video games. Our wearable display products provide virtual large high-resolution screens and present a virtual image to the user through our proprietary optics and projection engines. Using these optics and displays, our wearable display devices provide a virtual image that appears to the wearer similar in size to the image from a typical smart phone screen at arms length away, all the way to models that offer wall sized home theatre screens. For example, when viewed through our optics, a high-resolution 0.24-inch diagonal microdisplay can provide a viewing experience comparable to that on a 125-inch diagonal television screen viewed at ten feet. Our Smart Glasses, are designed to work standalone or as a peripheral to the smartphone and, have many of the same capabilities of the smartphone itself, allowing them to be used as a hands free wearable computer. Our products can be used as a wearable substitute for large-screen televisions, desktop computer monitors or tablets. Additionally, our Smart Glasses models allow users to utilize many smartphone applications while keeping their smartphones in a pocket or purse. Users of mobile devices sometime employ tablets and smartphones to replace their personal computer or console game systems while they are outside their homes or offices. Our wearable display products enable users of these mobile devices to effectively view the entire screen on a small, eyeglass-like device allowing real world interaction while viewing the screen. We believe some of the most promising future uses of wearable displays are Smart Glasses and Augmented Reality (AR) glasses where virtual 3D computer-generated objects and information are superimposed to enhance real-world views. This see-through capability is accomplished using a see-through optic, such as our waveguide optics or digitally with a forward-looking camera. Our wearable displays can also be used for virtual and augmented reality applications, in which the wearer is either immersed in a computer generated world or has their real world view augmented with computer generated information or graphics as is typical in enterprise applications. 1 In the past, see-through HMDs displayed the real world using semi-transparent mirrors placed in front of the users eyes. These HMDs were large and bulky and as a result, they had little mass-market appeal. We have developed thin optics, called waveguides, that are fully see-through and enable miniature display engines to be mounted in the temples of the HMD, which allows the form factor of the Smart Glasses to be comparable to conventional eyeglasses. Our Smart Glasses and AR Glasses are designed for all day use cases and are small enough to fit in a users pocket or purse. With hands free wearable computers like our M300 and M100 Smart Glasses, the user has the capability to merge virtual information with the real world, known as Augmented Reality (AR). With this capability, we have the potential to penetrate many new markets in the consumer and enterprise markets. An example of AR is the yellow first down line seen in television broadcasts of American football games, in which the line the offensive team must cross to achieve a first down is superimposed on the field itself. The real-world elements are the football field and players; the virtual element is the yellow line. We believe see-through wearable displays will enable this kind of experience on Smart Glasses running their own native AR applications, virtually anywhere and anytime. Our Smart Glasses product line can run these kinds of applications natively as they have much of the capabilities of a smartphone built into them; including running full operating systems like Alphabet Inc.s (Google company parent) Android. Our History Historically, we have focused on three markets: the consumer markets for gaming, entertainment and mobile video, smart glasses products for enterprise, and rugged mobile displays for defense markets. From 2003 to 2009, we sold a line of monocular (single eye) wearable displays products called the M920, which were discontinued in 2009 and replaced with a monocular high-resolution wearable display model called Tac-Eye. This product was ruggedized and designed to clip onto a pair of ballistic sunglasses, helmets or conventional safety goggles. In June 2012, we sold the assets that produced products and provided services, directly and indirectly, to military organizations and defense organizations including the Tac-Eye product line. Accordingly, we now focus primarily on the enterprise markets and consumer entertainment. In the fourth quarter of 2013, we began selling our first waveguide-based HMD that had see-through displays that enabled a level of AR use within the industrial research sector. The M2000AR was equipped with tracking sensors, hi-resolution camera, HDMI interface, and see-through waveguide based optics that could be mounted to hardhats or goggles. Since the introduction of the M2000 AR, we have significantly improved our waveguide based technology and are preparing to launch a new generation of waveguide based AR Smart Glasses in 2017. In January 2014, we received an Innovations Design and Engineering Award for the M100 Smart Glasses at the January 2014 Consumer Electronics Show (CES). In early 2014, we started selling M100 Smart Glasses, a new category of wearable displays that is currently aimed at enterprise customers. Our first monocular pair of Smart Glasses includes a wearable computer and has much of the capabilities of a smartphone including wireless internet access, GPS, Android OS and more, and are worn like a pair of glasses. We also produce both monocular and binocular wearable displays devices that are not smart. This version of our wearable display products is designed to be tethered to electronic devices, such as smart phones, laptop computers, tablets, Blu-ray players, portable media players and console gaming systems. In December 2015, we began shipping the Vuzix iWear Video Headphones (iWear) which included support for VR applications. The iWear was the recipient of four CES 2015 awards. The iWear features dual HD Displays and revolutionary nano-optics that provide the equivalent experience of a 125" home television from 10 feet and allow the wearer to play games, interact with apps, watch 2D, 3D and 360VR movies and even fly drones. iWear is completely portable and battery-driven so that the user can enjoy it at home or on-the-go and it delivers a one-of-a-kind experience. At CES in January 2016, we introduced two new prototype models of our monocular Smart Glasses products; the M300 and the M3000 Monocular Waveguide Smart Glasses. The M300 represents our next generation Smart Glasses model with significantly improved ergonomics and technical features, such as hot swappable batteries, Intel Atom processor running Android 6.0, and much more, all in a ruggedized form designed specifically for enterprise and industrial use. The M300 and M3000 Smart Glasses can connect to the cloud to deliver digital content directly to and from the job site and connecting it overlaid onto the real world. The M3000 was honored at CES 2016 and 2017 for its innovative design and engineering, and is our next-generation waveguide based AR wearable display for the enterprise sector. The M3000 features improved display resolution and employs our advanced waveguide optics that allow see-through operation for more advanced augmented reality applications. In January 2017, we introduced our Blade 3000 Smart Sunglasses at CES 2017. The Blade 3000 was a winner of four international CES 2017 innovation awards. The lightweight Blade 3000s are the first Smart Sunglasses featuring style, performance and advanced waveguide optics for hands-free computing and connectivity. The Blade 3000s are ideal for mobile applications including social media, navigation, augmented reality and HD photography and videography. These new smart glasses will allow users to see and augment the real world as if looking through a conventional pair of fashionable eyeglasses. 2 Overall Strategy Our goal is to establish and maintain a leadership position as a worldwide supplier of head mounted wearable displays including AR glasses, VR glasses and Smart Glasses solutions. We intend to offer our products across major markets, platforms and applications. We will strive to be an innovator in designing near-eye wearable display devices that can enable new mobile video viewing, general entertainment and AR and VR applications. To maintain and enhance our position as a leading provider of wearable displays for augmented reality, video viewing and smart glasses, we intend to: improve brand name recognition; provide excellent products and service; develop products based on our unique technology for both specialized and large enterprise and consumer markets; broaden and develop strategic relationships and partnerships; offer to sell our products or license our technology to third party companies that would incorporate and sell them as a new product with their own brand name (OEM partners); promote and enhance development of third party software that can take advantage of our products; reduce production and overhead costs by further outsourcing while moving to higher margin product offerings; extend our proprietary technology leadership; enhance and protect our intellectual property portfolio; establish multiple revenue sources; invest in highly qualified personnel; and build and maintain strong product design capabilities. The Market Current mobile display technology is almost universally based on direct view screens. These displays for mobility purposes are designed to be small and make portability easy. At the same time, these displays must be held by the user and depending on their size, it can be difficult for these displays to produce human readable high resolution content without magnification, which reduces screen resolution, or they must be held at a reasonably close reading distance. Our products are aimed at solving these problems by creating hands-free virtual large screens that are interactive and fit in tiny packages (eyeglasses). The wireless and entertainment industry has evolved considerably, and continues to do so. The mobile phone, once simply a means to communicate by voice while on-the-go, has evolved into a ubiquitous, location-aware, smart mobile computing device. Mobile technology is redefining the way people interact with their world, both at work and play, and it has become an essential lifestyle management and entertainment tool personalized to users unique needs. We believe that interactive AR content will significantly change the way mobile products are used and how content is delivered to the user. We believe head worn wearable displays that are hands free and can connect the digital world to the real world have the ability to change the entire paradigm and future of the computing industry. AR based wearable display and Smart Glasses have the ability to enable experiences that have never been possible with handheld or desktop devices and as a result, they have valuable uses that cannot be experienced any other way. Our business focuses on enterprise and industrial markets and the mobile consumer entertainment and gaming markets. The demand for head worn wearable displays in these markets is being driven by such factors as: Increasing demand for Internet, social media, and cloud services access anywhere, anytime. An increasing number of hands-free enterprise, commercial and medical applications for which our products are well suited and, when wearable display products are employed for these use cases, a significant ROI is typically achieved. We believe the growing use of AR applications on hand held devices such as smartphones and tablets will drive the need for a head worn wearable display solutions to replace the need to hold up handheld devices to use the applications. Video gaming around the world continues to grow even as more users migrate a greater portion of their game time to mobile devices. We believe that our Virtual Display technologies can significantly increase user satisfaction with gaming applications by engaging the user with a large high resolution mobile screen that also enables stereoscopic imagery and interactive head tracking. Target Markets Our target markets and applications by major sector are: Enterprise Our Smart Glasses products are currently focused on the enterprise, industrial and medical markets. These Smart Glasses products run native Android applications within the glasses that, for example, allow them to stream video in real-time, which is very useful for many Enterprise applications. Our Smart Glasses are being used for numerous applications including: remote camera viewfinder displays and wearable computer displays, viewing of wireless sensor data, quality assurance and assembly check list, providing hands-free access to manuals and other information and for on-site, in-the-field maintenance, warehouse pick and place, servicing, training and education. We have built an eco-system of Value Added Resellers (VARs), established a growing number of system integrators and have garnered infrastructure support from leading mobile device management companies. 3 Consumer We believe that there is an increasing demand for high-resolution, interactive 3D displays to enjoy content such as VR 360 videos, movies, entertainment and the Internet in mobile environments and as a secondary display in the home. We also believe that there is a need for high-resolution, interactive, stereoscopic 3D display devices for use with desktop computers, consoles, tablets and other gaming products. We believe that viewing mobile device gaming on smaller direct view screens is not a satisfactory experience for many consumers when compared to laptop computers and gaming consoles. Both VR and AR are difficult to implement using traditional desktop computer monitors and televisions but can be successfully implemented with appropriately equipped wearable displays. Our wearable display products enable both AR and VR applications for the end user. Augmented Reality for all Markets We offer smart wearable display products that enable development and deployment of AR applications. AR Smart Glasses enable its wearer to see computer-generated information, graphics or images projected into the real world environment or upon an object that the user is observing. Thus, whether in the warehouse, on the factory floor, or in-the-field, users while wearing the AR Smart Glasses may access a manual, tutorial, or image that is connected to the task at hand and that will assist them in completing that task, while also viewing their current surroundings and nearby objects. We anticipate AR applications will include the following areas: Field service, warehousing, and maintenance; Quality assurance; Inspections in the field or on the plant floor; Task support for industrial, manufacturing and medical applications; Advanced navigation both for the enterprise and consumer markets; Social networking; Location and scene based entertainment and education applications; Mobile commerce and visual search applications; and Real time language translation. Additional possible applications of AR-enabled Smart Glasses include hands free alerts, messaging, location and context sensitive information and social interaction. Products We now produce and sell two main types of wearable display products: Smart Glasses for a variety of enterprise and commercial users and applications, including AR; and Video Viewing glasses, for on-the-go users as mobile displays for entertainment, gaming as well as support for stepping into virtual worlds, simulations & VR gaming. Our products are available with varying features, including with and without application running computer processors, and are offered as either monocular or binocular display systems. Our Smart Glasses have many of the capabilities of a smartphone such as cameras and computer processors that can allow applications to be run directly in the Smart Glasses, enabling cloud connected applications through a wireless link directly with the glasses. We believe we provide one of the broadest range of wearable display products for AR, VR and Smart Glasses available in the market and that our products contain some of the most advanced electronics, ergonomics, and optics for their target markets and uses. Our products include: Binocular Wearable Display Products Our binocular wearable displays products, built and offered over the last 10 years, have included several models with differing native resolutions and virtual screen sizes. Our binocular wearable displays products contain two microdisplays (a separate display for each eye), typically mounted in a frame attached to eyeglass-style temples or stereo headphones. These products enable mobile and hands-free private viewing of video content on screens that simulate home theater-sized screens, all of which support 3D video applications. These products can be employed as mobile high-resolution displays with products such as smartphones with video output capability, laptop computers, tablet computers, portable DVD/Blu-Ray players, game consoles and personal digital media/video players. Our current model, the iWear Video Headphones, was first released in December 2015 and was the winner of 4 CES innovation awards in 2015. It is an HDMI based wearable display featuring a 125" equivalent big screen experience (from 10 feet away) with dual high-definition displays combined with audio and head tracking capabilities for use with many VR titles and 360VR movies. The iWear can also be used with drones and allows their pilots to have a HD first person view of piloting the drone. Monocular Wearable Display Products Monocular products, due to their single eye display are best used for push notifications and information snacking. Typically, monocular products have smaller fields of view that result in less information display capability and no stereoscopic 3D or depth information. 4 In early 2014, we began selling our first monocular pair of Smart Glasses, the M100, which was designed for the enterprise, industrial, commercial and medical markets. The Vuzix M100 Smart Glasses are an Android-based wearable computer, enhanced with a wearable monocular display and onboard processor, recording features and wireless connectivity capabilities designed for commercial, professional, and consumer users. Vuzix M100 Smart Glasses serve up the digital world hands free, offering access to information, data collection and more. The M100 provides enhancements to existing workflows and opens new opportunities in industrial, medical, retail, supply chain, remote help desk, and many more aspects of customers businesses. An integrated head tracking and GPS system can not only provide apps with a customers location but even the direction and angle of their current view for unprecedented situational awareness. Voice, button press, and hand gesture controls gives unprecedented versatility to navigate the M100 in almost any working environment. Its pre-installed apps can be used to record and playback still pictures and video, track timed events, manage your calendar, link to a phone and more. The M100 is compatible with thousands of existing Android apps, and easy access to developer resources enables the creation of custom apps to suit virtually any need. Ergonomic yet rugged, the M100 is currently in large scale productive use in fields such as telemedicine, remote help desk, warehouse, utilities, manufacturing, and more. We introduced two new models of our monocular Smart Glasses products and prototype models at the January 2017 CES. The M300 and the M3000 Monocular Waveguide Smart Glasses. The M300 is an updated design with enhanced functionality and wearability to follow on the popular Vuzix M100. The new Vuzix M300 is not a departure from the M100 product, but rather a next generation model with significantly improved ergonomics and technical features, such as hot swappable batteries, Intel Atom processor running Android 6.0, and much more, all in a ruggedized form designed specifically for enterprise and industrial use. The M300 entered volume production in February 2017 and will be broadly available by spring 2017. The second model, the M3000 was honored at CES 2016 and 2017 for its innovative design and engineering, and is our next-generation waveguide based wearable eyewear for the enterprise sector. The M3000 features improved display resolution and employs our advanced waveguide optics that allow see-through operation for more advanced augmented reality applications. The M3000 uses many of the same components as the new M300 and should achieve commercial production by Fall 2017. Both of these smart glasses can connect to the cloud to deliver digital content directly to and from the job site and connecting it overlaid onto the real world. The Blade 3000 Smart Sunglasses will also be offered as a monocular system and ultimately as binocular AR version in 2018. Future versions will include increased resolutions, more powerful computers and our thin waveguide see-through optics. Augmented Reality Products Augmented Reality wearable displays provide the user a live, direct or indirect, view of a physical, real-world environment whose elements are augmented by computer generated sensory input such as sound, video, graphics or GPS data. Those systems also contain head tracking technology, which enables the user to look around the environment being viewed by moving his or her head which in turn sends that information back to the computer which then adjusts the computer generated AR image accordingly. AR wearable displays typically include built-in cameras that can be used to overlay images connected to the real world as well as measure and track gestures and the physical environment of the AR wearer. Our Smart Glasses are an intelligent wearable computing systems specifically designed to enable computing and AR cloud connected information to the real world. The embedded cameras in our Smart Glasses are used for recording and/or seeing the real world. Input and control of our smart glasses consist of using the wirelessly connected smartphone, gesture sensor, speech recognition voice control, a series of built in sensor for head motion and in some cases or gesture sensors. We are building an eco-system of developers around these smart glasses and anticipate that most of the software being developed can be used on future generations of our smart glasses. Cloud or internet-connected Smart Glasses applications are being created for manufacturing, medical, field maintenance and repair, training, gaming and social media uses for both our monocular and binocular smart glasses product lines. Custom Solutions and Engineering Solutions We have in the past provided fully integrated wearable display systems, including head mounted displays, human computer interface devices, near-eye display related engineering services and wearable computers to commercial, industrial and defense customers. As a result of the sale our defense division in June 2012, we no longer pursue general engineering services work with defense or security organizations. In early 2015, we completed our last U.S. Navy Research labs waveguide engineering contract and have no active programs with the U.S. Department of Defense. Product Development We believe that continued introduction of new products in our target markets is essential to our growth. Our products tend to have one to three year life cycles. We have assembled a group of highly skilled engineers who work internally as well as with external consultants and our customers to continue our product development efforts. Our primary development efforts are focused on optics, projection engines, displays, low-power electronic designs, firmware and wearable software, and the design and ergonomics of wearable displays. Our display product development efforts are focused towards continually enhancing the resolution, performance and manufacturability of our display products. During 2016 and 2015, we spent $6,947,878 and $3,595,437, respectively, on research and development activities. We expect to increase our research and development expenditures in the future and as our revenues grow. We have also acquired and licensed technologies developed by third parties and we may do so in the future. 5 Technology We believe that it is important to make substantial investments in research and development to maintain our competitive advantage. The development and procurement of intellectual property rights relating to our technologies is a key aspect of our business strategy. We believe that it is now technologically feasible to improve upon the weight, ergonomics, optical performance, see-through capabilities, luminance, power efficiency, compactness, field of view and resolution of the current generation of virtual displays and display components. Early technology adopters have been the majority of the purchasers of our consumer wearable display products to date and similarly within the enterprise customer base most recently. However, our near-to-eye virtual display technology has been gradually improving in performance and we believe is starting to meet the high expectations of both the enterprise and the consumer mass markets with respect to screen resolution, computer power, image size and ergonomics. We expect to continue to improve our products through our ongoing research and development and advancements made by our third party suppliers of key components. We also develop intellectual property through our ongoing performance under engineering service contracts. We intend to continue to pursue select development contracts for applications that enhance our waveguide optics and other display technology. Our policy is to retain our proprietary rights with respect to the principal commercial applications of our technology under any engineering services work we perform, whenever possible. We believe that the range of our proprietary technologies gives us a significant competitive advantage. Our technologies relate to advanced optics systems including passive and active see-through imaging waveguides; micro-projection display engines; high resolution scanning displays; motion tracking systems; and specialized software drivers and applications for video eyewear displays. We also have a portfolio of trade secrets and expertise in nano-imprinting using quartz mold substrates, Nano structure Ultra Violet (UV) embossing, and engineering tool sets for the design and manufacturing of diffractive waveguide optics. We believe that display engines are also important for commercializing wearable displays. We have developed proprietary micro DLP based engines (code name Cobra II) and laser modulated engines designed specifically for our waveguide optics solutions. These next generation waveguides and display engines have allowed us to shrink the entire assembly to a module that will fit in the space available in a typical off-the-shelf pair of sports sunglasses. We anticipate launching several new waveguide based products in 2017 and beyond, with the first being our CES 2017 Innovation award winning Blade 3000 Smart Sunglasses. We entered into a technology license agreement with Nokia Corporation in August 2011 for their Exit Pupil Expanding (EPE) optics technology. Under the agreement, we perform on-going research and development on the EPE optics and are expected to manufacture and bring to market components and products containing the licensed technology. In addition, we will provide Nokia with the ability to purchase products and components which incorporate the licensed technology. The EPE technology is an important foundation of our diffraction based waveguide optics technology. Major technologies that we employ in our products include: Hardware Technology Virtual Display Technology (including Lens Technology and Optics Assemblies) Microdisplay optics represent a significant cost of goods for both us and our competitors. This cost is a function of the physical size of the microdisplay and the cost of the supporting optics. Smaller microdisplays are less expensive to produce but they require larger and more sophisticated optics to make near-eye systems that have no user adjustments, large fields of view and very low distortion specifications. Larger displays require less magnification and less complex optics, but the optics with display become very bulky and the displays are significantly more expensive to manufacture. To improve our wearable displays fashion and ergonomics, we are developing thin and lightweight optics that can be integrated with very small microdisplays that we expect will closely match conventional eyewear frames in size and weight. These new optics and displays provide what we believe are significantly improved ergonomics compared to competing wearable display solutions. See-Through Waveguides: We are developing passive, dynamic and diffractive optics based waveguides that are the basis for some of our future slim wearable display AR and smart glasses products. Our dynamic waveguides use index modulated liquid crystal material to switch beam steering gratings built in a thin glass window to scan an image into the users eye. We are also developing passive optical display engine that uses a ~1.2 mm thick see-through blade of glass or plastic with an ultra-compact micro display engine to magnify and focus the light from a display into a users eye. The development goal with these waveguides is to create AR based wearable displays that will appear to others as practically indistinguishable from todays conventional sunglasses by most every measure, including comfort, size, weight and ergonomics. We have also entered into a technology license agreement with Nokia Corporation for their Exit Pupil Expanding (EPE) optics technology . Custom Display Engines: We have patents and patents pending on modulated laser based display engines and IP around micro DLP display engines. Our Cobra II micro DLP engine is one of the smallest volume engines built around DLPs. We are also performing research and development work on laser engines to drive scanned images into holograms, with the goal of such systems to offer next generation waveguides capable of 100 plus degree fields of view. Both the display engine and waveguide optic combine into a single monolithic design that we believe will enable us to produce low cost, HD resolution displays in a form factor that will be integrated into frames similar in size to ordinary sunglasses. Our upcoming M3000 Smart Glasses and Blade 3000 Smart Sunglasses will both utilize the Cobra II DLP engine and latest waveguide optics. 6 Nanoimprinting: We continue to develop a portfolio of trade secrets and expertise in nanoimprinting. From quartz substrate molds with unique nano-structured grating surfaces built into them to UV embossing, and engineering tool sets for the design of diffractive waveguide optics. These trade secrets deal with the manufacture of molds through to volume production UV embossing. We believe these technologies are essential to the production of our ~1.2 mm thick see-through lenses which we believe are the cornerstone to making fashionable eyeglass-styled Smart Glasses. System level Engineering: To design wearable display solutions that are the size of conventional sunglasses requires an integrated approach. No single piece of technology can stand on its own. Vuzix engineering teams work together to integrate optics, electronics, displays, industrial design and more to solve some of the biggest challenges in the wearable display engineering chain. The level of integration between these disciplines is significant and has resulted in new intellectual properties for Vuzix that we believe set us ahead of the competition. Such know-how includes, for example, not only how to design a miniature display engine but also how it couples into a waveguide, right through to the physical structure of the grating on the surface of the waveguide and how the angle of the waveguide might fit in the glasses and the coupling optics allow that flexibility. All of these items need to be taken into account individually and as a whole to create designs that allow the technology to disappear in a pair of glasses. Patents and other Intellectual Property We have an intellectual property policy which has as its objectives: (i) the development of new intellectual property to further our intellectual property position in relation to personal display technology; and (ii) the maintenance and protection of our valuable trade secrets and know-how. We seek to further achieve these objectives through the education and training of our engineering staff and the adoption of appropriate systems, policies and procedures for the creation, identification and protection of intellectual property. Our general practice is to file patent applications for our technology in the United States, Europe, Japan, and in additional countries, including Canada and China for inventions which we believe have the greatest potential. We file and prosecute our patent applications in pursuit of the most extensive fields of protection possible including, where appropriate, the application of the relevant technology to the broader display industry. We believe that our intellectual property portfolio, coupled with our key supplier relationships and accumulated experience in the personal display field, gives us an advantage over potential competitors. We also believe our copyrights, trademarks, and patents are critical to our success, and we intend to maintain and protect these. We also rely on proprietary technology, trade secrets, and know-how which are not patented. To protect our rights in these areas, we require all employees and, where appropriate, contractors, consultants, advisors and collaborators, to enter into confidentiality, invention assignment and non-competition agreements. Our technologies enable us to provide low-cost, small form factor, high-resolution wearable display products. To protect our technologies, we have developed a patent portfolio which currently consists of 51 issued U.S. and foreign patents and 39 pending U.S. and foreign patent applications. We are also currently preparing several invention disclosures for the purposes of submitting design and utility patent applications. Our U.S. and foreign patents will expire on various dates from May 13, 2017 to July 6, 2041. In addition, in connection with our sale of our defense division in 2012, we received a worldwide, royalty free, assignable grant-back license to all the patents and other intellectual property sold for use in the manufacture and sale of products in the consumer markets. In addition to our various patents, we have seven registered U.S. trademarks, 42 trademark registrations worldwide and two pending international trademark applications. Competitors and Competitive Advantage The personal display and mobile device industry in which we operate is highly competitive. We compete against both direct view display technology and near-eye/wearable display technology and to a lesser extent smart phones and tablets. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the personal display industry include image size, image quality, image resolution, power efficiency, manufacturing cost, weight and dimension, feature implementation, augmented reality capabilities, ergonomics, style, hands free capabilities and, finally, the interactive capabilities of the overall display system. Many of our competitors products for mobile use are based on direct view display systems in which the user views the display device, or screen, directly without magnification. These products have several disadvantages compared to near-eye virtual displays and our wearable display products. If the screens are large enough to read a full conventional internet page or HD video without external magnification or image zooming, the products must be large and bulky, such as laptops, tablets, personal computers. If the displays are small, such as those incorporated in smartphones and smart watches, the screens can be difficult to read when displaying higher resolution content. Despite the limitations of direct view personal displays, smartphones, smart watches and other wearables are being produced in ever increasing volumes by a number of manufacturers, including Google (Alphabet), Nokia Corporation, Sony, Blackberry, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., LG Electronics, Apple Inc. (Apple), Microsoft, Garmin, Fitbit, Qualcomm, Chinese based and focused firms, and others. We expect that these large and well-funded companies, as well as newer entrants into the marketplace, will make products that are competitive with ours based on improvements to their existing direct view display technologies or on new technologies. Examples of new display technology include foldable displays, e-ink, flexible OMLEDs, see-through LCD displays and laser scanners and projectors. The displays on the latest smart phone and tablets provide very high resolution and are proving effective as mobile direct view personal displays for a variety of applications, including many that were once considered applications where Video Eyewear was superior. Additionally, the introduction of smart phone holders in goggle-worn systems like the Samsung Gear VR and dozens of Asian manufacturers, provide yet another view for users to get a very large screen experience from a 5 to 6 smart phone screen. 7 Aside from direct view displays, we also have competitors who produce near eye personal displays, or wearable displays. For the past decade most of such products were mainly low-resolution, bulky in size, poor ergonomically, costly, and heavy in their power requirements. We believe that most of our competitors wearable display products have inferior optics, marginal electronics and poor industrial design and that, as a result, our wearable display products are superior to those of many of our competitors in both visual performance, ergonomics and most importantly wearability. Competition - Binocular Video Viewer Wearable Display Products Vuzix competitors in the binocular wearable display space using microdisplays include Carl Zeiss, Seiko Epson (Epson), Sony, Avegant, Osterhout Design Group (ODG), and Fat Shark. Some of these firms are new and others have discontinued or sold off their products in this area, including Sony, Epson and Carl Zeiss. Sony decided in the spring of 2015 to discontinue their HMZ product line. We believe these competitive products were not well received due to their bulky and non-user-friendly designs. There are a number of smaller companies that have products that compete with our Video Viewer wearable display products. In the past they have generally used binocular display modules (BDM) produced by Kopin Corporation. Kopin offers binocular display modules of varying resolutions to original equipment manufacturers (or OEMs). Those modules are designed for easy customization by OEMs and include microdisplays, backlights, optics and optional drive electronics. Similar products are offered by other microdisplay manufacturers. The availability of those BDMs has greatly reduced the investment required for new competitors to enter the business. Currently, Kopin BDMs are primarily used by Asian-based wearable display manufacturers. We believe that the products produced by those manufacturers have one or more of the deficiencies described above. Kopin does not currently compete with Vuzix at the retail level. Kopin is also our primary supplier of microdisplays. As an alternative to microdisplay based head worn display systems, most manufacturers have moved to using larger display panels that are typically found in smart phones as the heart of their products. A Facebook unit, Oculus has been shipping its large field of view VR goggle HMD called the Oculus Rift since spring 2016. HTC in partnership with software developer Valve, introduced it higher-end VR system called the HTC Vive, which today is considered the premium VR offering. Sony after dropping their HMZ product, decided to develop a VR goggle system specifically for its PlayStation 4 game console, which began shipping in October 2016. Additionally, numerous manufacturers now offer head worn goggle attachments for smart phones, the first being Google Cardboard. These devices contain simple optics that allow the user to insert their smart phone into the device and view their phone screen very close to their eyes. Others like the Samsung Gear VR and the Carl Zeiss VR One can offer an inexpensive way for owners of compatible smart phones to experience virtual reality. In the fall of 2016, Google introduced its Daydream goggle headset which allows Android smart phones to be inserted to create a reasonable VR experience. The product is priced under $100 and includes a wireless controller to allow the wearer to navigate and play VR games. We believe all these units are very bulky relative to the wearers head, offer limited, but improving resolution to each eye, and often have less than clear optical performance across their viewing area. While acceptable for VR games and 360 videos, they are less than satisfactory as a big-screen video viewer due to screen-door and other optical distortions. We expect that, as the market grows and matures and as the technology becomes more refined, more companies may compete with us. Other companies that have stated their intention to enter this market when their product development is complete with either finished products or components with optics and display engines are Lumus and Microvision Corporation. At recent CES tradeshows, Lumus demonstrated several see-through HD optics engines in a pair of Video Eyewear. Although they appear to be designed into several OEM competitors products, they appear to have not yet announced a product that is ready for high volume production. Microvision has also announced that they are currently focused on the Pico projection markets, as described below, and that they are not planning to introduce a wearable display solution. Another product incorporating recently developed technology is a handheld projector that utilizes micro-displays and optics to project digital images onto any nearby viewing surface, such as a wall. These devices are referred to as pocket projectors or pico projectors and are designed to overcome the limitations of the native small screen on smartphones and other mobile devices. Pico projectors use either liquid crystal on silicon displays (LCOS) or color lasers to create their image. We believe pico projectors have had higher unit sales to date than wearable display primarily because of their cost advantage and higher resolutions. In the AR markets, there are few competitors with most of this market currently pointed at the very high-end researcher market. Companies either offering products or intending to do so in this area include the Microsoft Hololens, Meta, ODG, Sony, Epson, Atheer, Darqri, Magic Leap and CastAR. Today many of these products are fairly bulky and tethered to an external controller. Many are being sold as AR Smart Glasses and are currently targeted at enterprise and academic researchers. The most complete and functional systems today are Hololens and the ODG products. Further, industry bloggers have speculated that companies such as Apple and Google may offer or support AR wearable display products in the near future, but, to date, no specific product launch details have been officially announced. 8 Competition - Monocular Smart Glasses and Wearable Display Products Although several companies produce monocular wearable displays, we believe that sales of their products to date have been limited. To date, the market opportunity for monocular products other than night vision products has been limited primarily to trial tests and smaller rollouts in enterprise markets rather than broad commercial volume purchases. Competitors in these markets include Liteye Systems, Inc., Lumus, Shimadzu Corporation, Sony, Kopin, Zebra Technologies (inclusive of business unit formerly part of Motorola), Creative Display Systems, Brother, Google, LLC, Garmin BAE Systems, Six-15 Technologies, LLC (the purchaser of our defense division), Lenovo, Optinvent, Rockwell and Collins, Inc.. Googles wearable display device, named Google Glass, was a headset product with similar form and function to our M100 Smart Glasses. In 2015, Google stopped selling its first version of Glass and we believe introduced privately a second generation of Google Glass, which had better performance, but recent industry rumors indicate this product version has been discontinued also. Several Japanese electronics companies including Hitachi, Toshiba, Murata, Sony, Westunitis, and Olympus have or had announced monocular smart glass systems for industry, but some like Toshiba have decided to withdraw from marketing and sales of these systems. There are also several Chinese based companies that have been showing monocular smart glasses products but their sales activities thus far have been somewhat limited and focused in Asia. We expect that we will encounter competition in the future from major consumer electronics companies and suppliers of imaging and information products for defense applications. There is competition in all classes of products manufactured by us, including from divisions of large companies and many small companies. Our sales do not represent a significant share of the market for any class of products. The principal points of competition for these products include, among other factors: price, product performance, the availability of supporting applications, the experience and brand name of the particular company and history of its dealings in such products. We believe that our monocular products match or exceed the display products currently offered by our competitors. Sales and Marketing Sales Our strategy is to sell our products components both directly and through distributors and value added resellers (VARs) and on a select basis to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). As a result, we have distinct strategies for the sales of our products. In the smart glasses and AR markets, we are focused on the enterprise space and as such are building strategic marketing relationships with software firms to address and support enterprise customers. We are in parallel developing a VAR network with leading companies in various vertical markets from warehousing to field service to medical. As these VARs finish their value added software and services offerings, we expect them to roll out their finished solutions to their customer base. Some, after qualification, are being designated a Vuzix Industrial Partner or VIP. Such VIP partners gain early access to our new Smart Glasses hardware, receive first access to the initial commercial shipments, and get access to co-marketing support, discounts and much more. We are also supporting select larger key accounts with our in-house direct sales team. For our smart glasses, we are also developing an ecosystem with application developers from around the world. We have introduced our own hosted application store where our smart glass customers can download and purchase applications and software developer kits. We have and continue to host developer hackathon events with partner companies like NTT docomo and AT&T. On the consumer side, our products are targeted at applications such as video viewing, gaming and Virtual Reality. We are selling our iWear Video Headphones directly to consumers and recently expanded those activities to select distributors, and to online retailers worldwide. We also have built a multi-national sales channel with offices in the UK and Japan that spawned sales into over 50 countries over the last several years. As we broaden our markets, we will continue to expand on these strategies for each of our target application areas and markets. Finally, we regularly attend industry trade shows in our application markets. We currently sell our products internationally through distributors, resellers, online stores and various Vuzix operated web stores in Europe and Japan. Our international focus is currently on Japan and the EU. In Japan, we have a branch sales and service office in Tokyo, and a small warehouse outside of Tokyo. We employ two full-time staff in Japan. We have a wholly owned subsidiary, Vuzix (Europe) Limited, through which we conduct our business in the EU and Middle Eastern markets. Resellers in 50 countries placed orders with us during the last two years. We maintain a small European sales office in Oxford, England staffed by two sales consultants as well as a further sales consultant who is located in Spain. For customer support and warehousing, we have contracted with a third-party end user technical support firm and fulfillment center to service our customers in the EU. We believe that the technical nature of our potential OEM products such as microdisplays and display projections, demands close relationships with such customers. Our sales and marketing staff, assisted by our technical staff and senior management, visit prospective and existing customers worldwide on a regular basis. We believe these contacts are vital to the development of a close, long-term working relationship with our customers, and in obtaining regular forecasts, market updates and information regarding technical and market trends. We also participate in industry specific trade shows and conferences. 9 Marketing Our marketing group is responsible for product management, planning, advertising, marketing communications, and public relations. We have an internal public relations effort in the U.S. and have currently retained an external public relations firms for the U.S. market. One for our consumer focused products and the other for our enterprise smart glass products. In the UK, we employ a public relations firm part-time. We also employ marketing firms to help prepare brochures, packaging, tradeshow messaging and advertising campaigns, again focused on either the consumer or enterprise markets. All of our products are currently sold under the Vuzix brand name. We seek to have Vuzix become known as one of the premier suppliers of wearable display products for video viewing, smart and AR glasses. We plan to undertake specific marketing activities as needed, including, but not limited to: product reviews, case studies and promotions in trade publications; case studies on successful enterprise uses of smart glasses and AR; product and technology views for our website and social media; enhancement and maintenance of our Website, Web Store and Social Media sites; internet and web page advertising and targeted emails; public relations; print advertising, catalogs and point of purchase displays; and trade shows and event sponsorships. Consumer We engage in a variety of marketing efforts that are intended to drive customers to our products and to grow awareness of our AR Smart Glasses and wearable displays in general. Public relations and product videos are an important aspect of our marketing and we intend to continue to distribute samples of our products to key industry participants. We intend to focus our marketing efforts for the next 12 months on: distinguishing our wearable display and Smart Glasses product categories from current competitors and by offering products with superior performance and optics to those of our competitors; working with third party software developers to support the unique capabilities of our new products; and creating brand awareness with the press and general public of Vuzix and its products, with particular emphasis on our new forthcoming waveguide based products. Our wearable display products are currently primarily sold directly to consumers and at times through select specialty retailers, online retailers such as Amazon, through catalogue offerings and through third party North American distributors including D&H. Our website, www.vuzix.com is an important part of our direct sales efforts. Engineering Services and OEM Products We primarily solicit sales of our engineering services programs and OEM component requests directly and usually in response to inbound inquiries. We do not typically offer works for hire services at Vuzix but rather offer our services to opportunities that could result in advancing our technology or end up in a long-term supply or OEM relationship. We believe we have established a solid reputation for quality, performance and innovation for near-eye virtual display systems that will be attractive to many types of commercial users that want to leverage our services and products within their businesses. Attendance at industry trade shows, conferences and application white papers are tools we use to generate customer interest. Our design and engineering staff are actively involved with customers during all phases of prototype design through production by providing engineering data, up-to-date product application notes, regular follow-up and technical assistance. Employees As of March 16, 2017, we had 50 full-time employees in North America: 6 in sales and marketing, distribution, and customer service; 24 in research and development and engineering services support; 11 in manufacturing, operations and purchasing; 1 in quality assurance; and 8 in accounting, management, IT, and administration. We also work with a group of sub-contractors, mainly for industrial and mechanical design assistance in the Rochester, New York area. To further our waveguide research development, we work with various commercial and academic researchers in the United Stated and Finland. In Japan, we have 2 full-time employees and in the Europe we have 2 full-time contractors in England and 1 in Spain to manage our European sales and marketing activities. 10 History - Corporate We were incorporated in Delaware in 1997 as VR Acquisition Corp. In 1997, we acquired substantially all of the assets of Forte Technologies, Inc. (Forte), which was engaged in the manufacture and sale of Virtual Reality headsets and the development of related technologies. Forte was originally owned and controlled by Kopin, our main current microdisplay supplier. Most of the technologies developed by Forte are now owned and used by us. In 1997, we changed our name to Kaotech Corporation. In 1998, we changed our name to Interactive Imaging Systems, Inc. In 2004, we changed our name to Vicuity Corporation and then to Icuiti Corporation. In 2007, we changed to our current name, Vuzix Corporation. None of these name changes were the result of a change in our ownership control. Reference in this report to Vuzix, the Company, we, us, our and similar words refer to Vuzix Corporation and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. Item 1A Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. An investor should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this annual report, before making an investment decision. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer as a result of these risks. In that case, the market value of our securities could decline, and an investor may lose all or part of his or her investment. Risks Related to Our Business We have incurred net losses since our inception and if we continue to incur net losses in the foreseeable future the market price of our common stock may decline. We reported a net loss of $19,250,082 for the year ended December 31, 2016, and we reported a net loss of $13,427,478 for the year ended December 31, 2015. We have an accumulated deficit of $94,541,168 as of December 31, 2016. We may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We will need to increase sales in order to achieve and maintain profitability. In addition, we expect that our expenses relating to product development and research, sales and marketing, as well as our general and administrative costs, may increase. If we do not achieve and maintain profitability, our financial condition will ultimately be materially and adversely affected and we would eventually be required to raise additional capital. We may not be able to raise any necessary capital on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we fail to achieve or maintain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis within the timeframe expected by investors, the market price of our common stock may decline. RISK FACTOR SECTION In preparing our consolidated financial statements, our management determined that our disclosure