Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our business may also be adversely affected by risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial. If any of the events contemplated by the following discussion of risks should occur or other risks arise or develop, our business, which includes our prospects, financial condition and results of operations, the trading prices of our securities and our reputation, may be adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents Risks Related to Macroeconomic Conditions and Industry Trends Global economic conditions may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Uncertainties in global economic conditions that are beyond our control have in the past impacted our business and may in the future materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. These adverse conditions include economic instability, changes in tax laws, regulations and new or increased tariffs, including retaliatory tariffs, export controls, the impacts of inflation, slower growth or recession, sustained higher interest rates, high unemployment, decreased consumer confidence in the economy, armed hostilities, such as the ongoing conflicts between Russia and Ukraine, and other events related thereto, such as economic sanctions and trade restrictions, geopolitical tensions in China and other regions, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, conditions affecting the retail environment for products we sell, and other unexpected events, including public health crises. A downturn in the economic environment can also lead to financial instability, increased credit and collectability risk on our receivables, the failure of important partners, including suppliers, logistics providers, derivative counterparties and other financial institutions, limitations on our ability to issue new debt, reduced liquidity and declines in the fair value of our financial instruments. These and other economic factors can materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. Changes in consumer confidence and spending due to economic conditions on a global level or in particular markets, geopolitical uncertainty, and other factors may adversely affect our financial performance. Our business depends on consumer demand for our products. As a result, we believe that our sales are sensitive to a number of factors that influence consumer confidence and spending,both on a global level and in particular markets, that can, in turn, affect our business or the home goods industry generally. These factors include, among others, financial market volatility, inflationary pressures, the impacts of tariffs, negative financial news, conditions in the real estate and mortgage markets, including home equity loans and consumer credit, changes in net worth based on market changes and uncertainty, energy shortages and cost increases, labor and healthcare costs, government actions and general uncertainty regarding the overall future economic environment. Consumers may view a substantial portion of the products we offer as discretionary items rather than necessities. As a result, our operating results are sensitive to changes in macroeconomic conditions that impact consumer spending, including discretionary spending.Declines in consumer spending have in the past resulted, and in the future may result, in decreased demand for our products and services which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We are subject to risks from changes to the trade policies, including tariff and import/export regulations by the U.S. and/or other foreign governments. Changes in trade policy, including trade restrictions, new or increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes, sanctions and countersanctions, safeguards or customs restrictions by the U.S. and/or other foreign governments could have a material adverse impact on our business. The imposition of new tariffs or increases in existing tariffs on products imported from countries where we or our suppliers operate could result in increased costs for finished goods. These cost increases may reduce our margins, require us to raise prices, or make our products less competitive in the marketplace. In addition, other countries may change their business and trade policies in anticipation of or in response to increased import tariffs and other changes in trade policy and regulations already enacted or that may be enacted in the future. If we are unable to mitigate these risks through supply chain adjustments, pricing strategies, or other measures, our financial performance and growth prospects could be negatively affected. For example, the U.S. has recently imposed new tariffs on China related to the importation of certain product categories, including home goods. China has responded with retaliatory tariffs. A substantial portion of our products are manufactured in China. We are working with our suppliers to mitigate any exposure to current and any other potential tariffs and seeking opportunities to engage with new suppliers outside of China, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to offset any increased costs or secure these new suppliers. Our results could be adversely affected by events beyond our control, such as natural disasters, public health crises, political crises, negative global climate patterns, or other catastrophic events. Our operations, or those of our suppliers, could be negatively impacted by various events beyond our control, including, without limitation, natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, earthquakes, extreme cold events and other adverse weather conditions; public health crises, such as pandemics and epidemics; political crises, such as terrorist attacks, war, labor unrest, and other political instability (including, without limitation, the ongoing conflicts between Russia and Ukraine), negative 13 Table of Contents global climate patterns, especially in water stressed regions; or other catastrophic events, such as fires or other disasters occurring at our distribution centers or our suppliers manufacturing facilities, whether occurring in the U.S. or internationally. These events could disrupt our business operations, including the operations of our corporate offices, physical retail locations, and warehouses, as well as the operations of our global supply chain and those of our third-party partners, including our suppliers, vendors and logistics carriers, and could make it more difficult and costly for us to deliver our products. Furthermore, these types of events could negatively impact consumer spending in the impacted regions or, depending upon the severity, globally. Disasters occurring at our suppliers manufacturing facilities could impact our reputation and customers' perception of the products we offer. To the extent any of these events occur, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. In addition, the impacts of climate change could result in changes in regulations, which could in turn affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our business, financial condition and operating results could be harmed. Our historical growth rates may not be sustainable or indicative of future growth. To manage our growth effectively, we must continue to implement our operational plans and strategies, improve and expand our infrastructure of people and information systems and appropriately manage our employee base. If our new hires perform poorly, if we are unsuccessful in hiring, training, managing and integrating these new employees and staff, or if we are not successful in retaining our existing employees and staff, our business may be harmed. Moreover, beginning in 2022 and continuing in 2023 and 2024, in an effort to reduce our operational costs and improve our organizational efficiency, we implemented a cost efficiency plan, part of which included internal restructurings and workforce reductions to right-size our cost structure. Further in January 2025, we announced our decision to exit the German market, including a workforce reduction impacting approximately 730 employees, although we expect approximately half of these positions to relocate to other corporate offices. Any reduction in force may yield unintended consequences and costs, such as attrition beyond the intended reduction in force, the distraction of employees, reduced employee morale and adverse effects to our reputation as both an employer and with respect to customers, which could make it more difficult for us to hire new employees in the future and to retain and motivate key employees, and there is a risk that we may not achieve the anticipated benefits from the reduction in force. We also face significant competition for personnel. Failure to manage our hiring needs effectively or successfully integrate our new hires may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Properly managing our global workforce will also require us to establish consistent policies across regions and functions, and a failure to do so could likewise harm our business. Further, we have a substantial number of hourly employees. While we are at or above current local and federal minimum wage requirements across the U.S., any future local or federal minimum wage increases may increase our labor costs, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, the growth of our business places significant demands on our operations, as well as our management and other employees. For example, we typically launch hundreds of promotional events across thousands of products each month on our sites via emails, push notifications and personalized displays. These events require us to produce updates of our sites and emails to our customers on a daily basis with different products, photos and text. Any surge in online traffic and orders associated with such promotional activities places increased strain on our operations, including our logistics network, and may cause or exacerbate slowdowns or interruptions. The growth of our business may require significant additional resources to meet these daily requirements, which may not scale in a cost-effective manner or may negatively affect the quality of our sites and customer experience. Further, we have faced and may continue to face a number of challenges to our expansion into physical retail locations, including locating retail space with a cost and geographic profile that will allow us to operate in highly desirable shopping locations, hiring in-store talent and expanding our physical retail operations in a cost-effective manner. We have entered into and may continue to enter into long-term leases before we know whether our physical retail strategy or a particular geography will be successful. We are also required to manage relationships with a growing number of suppliers, customers and other third parties across the world. Our information technology systems and our internal