Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Seasonality Our business is affected by seasonality, which historically has resulted in higher sales volume during our fourth quarter, which ends December 31. However, a variety of factors can alter seasonal patterns, including the COVID-19 pandemic. Beginning in mid-March 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic and the related responses disrupted our usual seasonal patterns, resulting in higher sales volumes during the second and third fiscal quarters of 2020. As economies across the U.S. and the globe began to reopen with rising vaccination rates during the spring of 2021, spending patterns shifted as consumers moved back to experiential categories in a broad fashion. The combination of these changes in consumer spending patterns and the global supply chain 8 Table of Contents challenges, which also arose due to the COVID-19 pandemic, led to lower sales in the second half of fiscal year 2021 as compared to the first. Intellectual Property We believe our intellectual property, including any trademarks, service marks, copyrights, domain names, patents, trade dress, trade secrets and proprietary technologies, is an important part of our business. We seek to protect our intellectual property by relying on federal, state and common law rights in the United States and other countries, as well as contractual restrictions. We generally enter into confidentiality and assignment of invention assignment agreements with employees and certain contractors and confidentiality agreements with other third parties, such as suppliers, in order to limit access to, and disclosure and use of, our confidential information and proprietary technology. In addition to these contractual arrangements, we also rely on a combination of trademarks, trade dress, domain names, copyrights, trade secrets and patents to help protect our other intellectual property. Company Information We began operating as Smart Tech Toys, Inc., a Massachusetts corporation, in May 2002 and changed our name to CSN Stores, Inc. in February 2003. From 2002 through 2011, the company was bootstrapped by our co-founders and operated as hundreds of niche websites, such as bedroomfurniture.com and allbarstools.com. In March 2008, we formed, and contributed all of the assets and liabilities of CSN Stores, Inc. to a subsidiary, CSN Stores LLC, and we continued operating our business through this Delaware limited liability company. In late 2011, we made the strategic decision to close and permanently redirect over 240 of our niche websites into Wayfair.com. As part of that shift, we changed the name of CSN Stores, Inc. to SK Retail, Inc. and changed our name from CSN Stores LLC to Wayfair LLC. In connection with our initial public offering, we completed a corporate reorganization, as a result of which Wayfair Inc. was formed to be a holding company with no material assets other than 100% of the equity interests in Wayfair LLC and SK Retail, Inc. Available Information We encourage investors to use our investor relations website, investor.wayfair.com, to find information about us. We promptly make available on this website, free of charge, the reports that we file or furnish with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), as well as corporate governance information (including our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics). We file annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy and information statements and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a), 14 and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). The SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding Wayfair and other issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Our telephone number is (617) 532-6100 and our website address is www.wayfair.com. The information contained in our website or connected thereto is not a part of, or incorporated into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Further, our references to website URLs are intended to be inactive textual references only. 9 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below. We caution you that the following important factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf in filings with the SEC, press releases, communications with investors and oral statements. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in any other public statements we make may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors mentioned in the discussion below will be important in determining future results. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Actual future results may differ materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosure we make in our reports filed with the SEC. Risks Related to the COVID-19 Pandemic The ongoing global pandemic, and any future outbreaks or other public health emergencies, could materially affect our business, liquidity, financial condition and operating results. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and the various responses to it globally have created significant volatility, uncertainty and economic disruption. Authorities across the U.S. and the globe have implemented and continue to implement varying degrees of restriction on social and commercial activity in an effort to slow the spread of the virus, some of which have been subsequently rescinded or modified, such as travel bans, stay-at-home orders and shutdowns of certain businesses. These measures have impacted and may continue to impact all or portions of our workforce, operations, suppliers and customers and demand for our products and services. In particular, while we have seen increased sales and order activity at times during the COVID-19 pandemic, the pandemic has significantly disrupted the global supply chain, including many of our suppliers. Such disruptions, including staffing shortages, production slowdowns, stoppages and/or disruptions in delivery systems, could materially and adversely affect our suppliers ability to provide products in a timely manner, or at all, and could materially and adversely affect our logistics providers ability to distribute products to our customers in a timely manner, or at all. We expect issues related to the global supply chain to continue into 2022. In addition, the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted, and may continue to disrupt, third-party business partners ability to meet their obligations to us. These third parties include our suppliers and logistics providers, such as FedEx, UPS, DHL, the U.S. Postal Service and other third-party delivery agents, as their workers may be prohibited or otherwise unable to report to work and transporting products within regions or countries may be limited due to extended holidays, factory closures, port closures and increased labor shortages, among other things. We have also incurred, and may continue to incur, higher shipping costs due to various surcharges by third-party delivery agents on retailers related to the increased shipping demand resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. These higher costs affected us over the past year and may continue to affect us in the future. The COVID-19 pandemic also impacted our workforce, causing us to move a large portion of our employees to work-from-home and adding administrative complexity to our everyday human resources and employee technology functions. Furthermore, if significant portions of our workforce are unable to work effectively, including because of illness, quarantines, government actions, the impact of vaccine mandates and the willingness of our employees to comply with such mandates, facility closures, remote working or other restrictions in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic, our operations will likely be adversely impacted. Further, the steps we have taken to protect the health, safety and financial security of our employees, including instituting testing and vaccination requirements at our facilities, may result in other negative impacts on our operations, including increased costs, reduced efficiency levels or labor disputes resulting in a strike or other work stoppage or interruption. The COVID-19 pandemic has also significantly increased economic uncertainty and has led to disruption and volatility in the global capital markets, which could increase the cost of and accessibility to capital. If we need to access the capital markets, there can be no assurance that financing may be available on attractive terms, if at all. The COVID-19 pandemic has caused and could continue to cause periods of significant economic slowdown, which could lead to reduced discretionary consumer spending and a corresponding reduction in demand for our products and could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. To counteract the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, governments around the world have implemented fiscal stimulus measures and vaccination rollouts, however, the magnitude and overall effectiveness of these actions remain uncertain and certain 10 Table of Contents U.S. federal and state laws and regulations intended to reduce the spread of COVID-19 are in direct conflict, which means we may be unable to comply with all applicable laws and regulations in some of the jurisdictions in which we operate. Further, the full extent of the impact of COVID-19, including the extent of its impact on our business and financial condition, will depend on numerous evolving factors that we may not be able to accurately predict, including, but not limited to: the length of time that the pandemic continues; the availability, distribution and continued efficacy of available treatments and vaccines; vaccination rates among the general public and our employees; its effect on our suppliers, logistics providers and the demand for our products; the effect of governmental regulations imposed in response to the pandemic; the effect on our customers, their communities and customer demand and ability to pay for our products and services, which may be affected by increased consumer debt levels, changes in net worth due to market conditions and other factors that impact consumer confidence; disruptions or restrictions on our employees ability to work and travel, as well as uncertainty regarding all of the foregoing. While the home industry has fared much better during the COVID-19 pandemic than other sectors of the economy, the recent surges in COVID-19 cases due to new variants and the resurgence of inflation brought on by labor and supply shortages have had and may continue to have an adverse impact upon our business. Much is still unknown, including the duration and severity of the COVID-19 pandemic, the emergence of variants of COVID-19 that may continue to prolong the pandemic, the amount of time it will take for normal economic activity to resume, and future government actions that may be taken. Accordingly the situation remains dynamic and subject to rapid and possibly material change, including but not limited to changes that may materially affect the operations of our suppliers, logistics providers and customers, which ultimately could result in material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and operating results. We cannot at this time predict the full impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, but it could have a larger material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and operating results beyond what is discussed within this report. We will continue to actively monitor the COVID-19 situation and may take further actions that alter our business operations as may be required by federal, state, local or foreign authorities, or that we determine are in the best interests of our customers, employees, suppliers, partners, stockholders and communities. We cannot predict with any certainty whether and to what degree the disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and reactions thereto will continue, and we expect to face difficulty in accurately forecasting our financial condition and operational results. Additionally, to the extent the COVID-19 pandemic adversely affects our business, results of operations or financial condition, it may heighten other risks described in this Risk Factors section below. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our recent growth rates may not be sustainable or indicative of our future growth. Our historical growth rates may not be sustainable or indicative of future growth. We believe that our continued revenue growth will depend upon, among other factors, our ability to: build our brands and launch new brands; acquire new customers and increase repeat purchases from existing customers; develop new features to enhance the consumer experience on our sites, mobile-optimized sites and mobile applications; increase the frequency with which new and repeat customers purchase products on our sites through merchandising, data, analytics and technology; add new suppliers and deepen our relationships with our existing suppliers; grow certain categories where we under index the broader home goods market today; enhance the systems our consumers use to interact with our sites and invest in our infrastructure platform; increase delivery speed and improve the delivery experience for our customers through the continued build-out of our proprietary logistics network; continue to expand internationally; continue to execute our omni-channel strategy with the launch of physical retail stores across our family of brands; and opportunistically pursue strategic acquisitions. 11 Table of Contents We cannot assure you we will be able to achieve any of the foregoing. Our customer base may not continue to grow or may decline as a result of increased competition and the maturation of our business. Failure to continue our revenue growth rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. You should not rely on our historical rate of revenue growth as an indication of our future performance. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our business, financial condition and operating results could be harmed. To manage our growth effectively, we must continue to implement our operational plans and strategies, improve and expand our infrastructure of people and information systems and expand, train and manage our employee base. To support our continued growth, we have rapidly increased employee headcount since our inception. To support continued growth, we must effectively integrate, develop and motivate a large number of new employees. If our new hires perform poorly, if we are unsuccessful in hiring, training, managing and integrating these new employees and staff, or if we are not successful in retaining our existing employees and staff, our business may be harmed. Moreover, in 2020 we implemented reductions in force and may in the future implement other reductions in force. Any reduction in force may yield unintended consequences and costs, such as attrition beyond the intended reduction in force, the distraction of employees, reduced employee morale and adverse effects to our reputation as an employer, which could make it more difficult for us to hire new employees in the future, and the risk that we may not achieve the anticipated benefits from the reduction in force. Properly managing our growth will require us to establish consistent policies across regions and functions, and a failure to do so could likewise harm our business. We also face significant competition for personnel. Failure to manage our hiring needs effectively or successfully integrate our new hires may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Further, we have a substantial number of hourly employees. In January 2021, we announced a minimum wage increase for all U.S. employees to at least $15 per hour. While we are at or above current local and federal minimum wage requirements across the U.S, any future local or federal minimum wage increases may increase our labor costs, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, the growth of our business places significant demands on our operations, as well as our management and other employees. For example, we typically launch hundreds of promotional events across thousands of products each month on our sites via emails, "push" notifications and personalized displays. These events require us to produce updates of our sites and emails to our customers on a daily basis with different products, photos and text. Any surge in online traffic and orders associated with such promotional activities places increased strain on our operations, including our logistics network, and may cause or exacerbate slowdowns or interruptions. The growth of our business may require significant additional resources to meet these daily requirements, which may not scale in a cost-effective manner or may negatively affect the quality of our sites and customer experience. Further, we may face a number of challenges to our expansion into physical retail locations, including locating retail space with a cost and geographic profile that will allow us to operate in highly desirable shopping locations, hiring in-store talent and expanding our physical retail operations in a cost-effective manner. We may also have to enter into long-term leases before we know whether our physical retail strategy or a particular geography will be successful. We are also required to manage relationships with a growing number of suppliers, customers and other third parties. Our information technology systems and our internal