Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Seasonality Our business is affected by seasonality, which historically has resulted in higher sales volume during our fourth quarter, which ends December 31. Intellectual Property We believe our intellectual property, including any trademarks, service marks, copyrights, domain names, patents, trade dress, trade secrets and proprietary technologies, is an important part of our business. We seek to protect our intellectual property by relying on federal, state and common law rights in the United States and other countries, as well as contractual restrictions. We generally enter into confidentiality and assignment of invention assignment agreements with employees and certain contractors and confidentiality agreements with other third parties, such as suppliers, in order to limit access to, and disclosure and use of, our confidential information and proprietary technology. In addition to these contractual arrangements, we also rely on a combination of trademarks, trade dress, domain names, copyrights, trade secrets and patents to help protect our other intellectual property. Company Information We began operating as Smart Tech Toys, Inc., a Massachusetts corporation, in May 2002 and changed our name to CSN Stores, Inc. in February 2003. From 2002 through 2011, the company was bootstrapped by our co-founders and operated as hundreds of niche websites, such as bedroomfurniture.com and allbarstools.com. In March 2008, we formed, and contributed all of the assets and liabilities of CSN Stores, Inc. to a subsidiary, CSN Stores LLC, and we continued operating our business through this Delaware limited liability company. In late 2011, we made the strategic decision to close and permanently redirect over 240 of our niche websites into Wayfair.com. As part of that shift, we changed the name of CSN Stores, Inc. to SK Retail, Inc. and changed our name from CSN Stores LLC to Wayfair LLC. In connection with our initial public offering, we completed a corporate reorganization, as a result of which Wayfair Inc. was formed to be a holding company with no material assets other than 100% of the equity interests in Wayfair LLC and SK Retail, Inc. Available Information We encourage investors to use our investor relations website, investor.wayfair.com, to find information about us. We promptly make available on this website, free of charge, the reports that we file or furnish with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), as well as corporate governance information (including our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics). We file annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy and information statements 9 Table of Contents and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a), 14 and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). The SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding Wayfair and other issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Our telephone number is (617) 532-6100 and our website address is www.wayfair.com. The information contained in our website or connected thereto is not a part of, or incorporated into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Further, our references to website URLs are intended to be inactive textual references only. 10 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below. We caution you that the following important factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf in filings with the SEC, press releases, communications with investors and oral statements. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in any other public statements we make may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors mentioned in the discussion below will be important in determining future results. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Actual future results may differ materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosure we make in our reports filed with the SEC. Risks Related to Macroeconomic Conditions and Industry Trends Global economic conditions and the effect of economic pressures and other business factors on discretionary consumer spending and consumer preferences may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Uncertainties in global economic conditions that are beyond our control have in the past impacted our business and may in the future materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. These adverse economic conditions include inflation, slower growth or recession, new or increased tariffs and other, changes to fiscal and monetary policy, higher interest rates, high unemployment, decreased consumer confidence in the economy, armed hostilities, such as the ongoing military conflict between Russia and Ukraine, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, conditions affecting the retail environment for products we sell, and other matters that influence consumer spending and preferences. In addition, consumer confidence and spending can be materially adversely affected in response to financial market volatility, negative financial news, conditions in the real estate and mortgage markets, including home equity loans and consumer credit, changes in net worth based on market changes and uncertainty, energy shortages and cost increases, labor and healthcare costs, government actions and general uncertainty regarding the overall future economic environment. Consumers may view a substantial portion of the products we offer as discretionary items rather than necessities. As a result, our operating results are sensitive to changes in macroeconomic conditions that impact consumer spending, including discretionary spending. Declines in consumer spending have and, in the future, may result in decreased demand for our products and services which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. A downturn in the economic environment can also lead to financial instability, increased credit and collectability risk on our receivables, the failure of important partners, including suppliers, logistics providers, derivative counterparties and other financial institutions, limitations on our ability to issue new debt, reduced liquidity and declines in the fair value of our financial instruments. These and other economic factors can materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, and any future outbreaks or other public health emergencies, could materially affect our business, liquidity, financial condition and operating results. The COVID-19 pandemic has negatively impacted the global economy, disrupted consumer spending and global supply chains and created significant volatility and disruption of financial markets. The COVID-19 pandemic and the various responses to it globally have created significant volatility, uncertainty and economic disruption. Authorities across the U.S. and the globe have implemented varying degrees of restriction on social and commercial activity. While certain of these restrictions were lifted and phased re-openings occurred in some regions, some restrictions continued through fiscal 2022 in certain regions or to certain extents, and other regions have seen a resurgence of COVID-19 cases resulting in reinstitution or expansion of such measures. In particular, while we saw increased sales and order activity at times during the COVID-19 pandemic, the pandemic significantly disrupted the global supply chain, including many of our suppliers, logistics providers and other partners. Such disruptions, including staffing shortages, raw material and labor inflation, factory closures and production slowdowns, port closures a stoppages and/or disruptions in delivery systems, have and may continue to materially and adversely affect our suppliers ability to provide products in a timely manner, or at all, and have and may continue to materially and adversely affect our logistics providers ability to distribute products to our customers in a timely manner, or at all. The issues related to the global supply chain may continue into 2023. 11 Table of Contents The extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business will depend on future developments, which remain highly uncertain and difficult to predict, including the duration, severity and sustained geographic spread of the pandemic, additional waves of increased infections, the virulence and spread of different strains of the virus, and the extent to which associated prevention, containment, remediation and treatment efforts, including global vaccination programs and vaccine acceptance, are successful. Additionally, to the extent the COVID-19 pandemic or other outbreaks, epidemics, pandemics or public health crises adversely affects our business, results of operations or financial condition, it may heighten other risks described in this Risk Factors section below. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our business, financial condition and operating results could be harmed. Our historical growth rates may not be sustainable or indicative of future growth. To manage our growth effectively, we must continue to implement our operational plans and strategies, improve and expand our infrastructure of people and information systems and expand, train and manage our employee base. If our new hires perform poorly, if we are unsuccessful in hiring, training, managing and integrating these new employees and staff, or if we are not successful in retaining our existing employees and staff, our business may be harmed. Moreover, beginning in 2022 and continuing in 2023, in an effort to reduce our operational costs and improve our organizational efficiency, we implemented a cost efficiency plan, part of which included an internal restructuring and a workforce reduction. Any reduction in force may yield unintended consequences and costs, such as attrition beyond the intended reduction in force, the distraction of employees, reduced employee morale and adverse effects to our reputation as an employer, which could make it more difficult for us to hire new employees in the future and to retain and motivate key employees, and there is a risk that we may not achieve the anticipated benefits from the reduction in force. We also face significant competition for personnel. Failure to manage our hiring needs effectively or successfully integrate our new hires may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Properly managing our growth will also require us to establish consistent policies across regions and functions, and a failure to do so could likewise harm our business. Further, we have a substantial number of hourly employees. While we are at or above current local and federal minimum wage requirements across the U.S, any future local or federal minimum wage increases may increase our labor costs, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, the growth of our business places significant demands on our operations, as well as our management and other employees. For example, we typically launch hundreds of promotional events across thousands of products each month on our sites via emails, "push" notifications and personalized displays. These events require us to produce updates of our sites and emails to our customers on a daily basis with different products, photos and text. Any surge in online traffic and orders associated with such promotional activities places increased strain on our operations, including our logistics network, and may cause or exacerbate slowdowns or interruptions. The growth of our business may require significant additional resources to meet these daily requirements, which may not scale in a cost-effective manner or may negatively affect the quality of our sites and customer experience. Further, we have faced and may continue to face a number of challenges to our expansion into physical retail locations, including locating retail space with a cost and geographic profile that will allow us to operate in highly desirable shopping locations, hiring in-store talent and expanding our physical retail operations in a cost-effective manner. We have entered into and may continue to enter into long-term leases before we know whether our physical retail strategy or a particular geography will be successful. We are also required to manage relationships with a growing number of suppliers, customers and other third parties across the world. Our information technology systems and our internal