Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict, including those identified below, under Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors, and elsewhere herein. Therefore, our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason. 18 Table of Contents In this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, unless otherwise specified or the context otherwise requires, Weave, the Company, we, us, and our refer to Weave Communications, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Overview Weave is a leading all-in-one customer experience and payments software platform for small and medium-sized healthcare businesses. From the first phone call to the final invoice and every touchpoint in between, Weave connects the entire patient journey. Weaves software solutions transform how healthcare practices attract, communicate with, and engage patients and clients to grow their business. Weave seamlessly integrates billing and payment requests into communication workflows, streamlining payment timelines, reducing accounts receivable, and supporting practice profitability. We have democratized powerful communication and engagement capabilities previously only available to enterprises, made them intuitive and easy to use and put them in one solution. Our verticalized software platform streamlines the day-to-day operations of running a small and medium-sized business (SMB) healthcare practice. Instead of a fragmented set of tools, Weave offers an AI-powered solution that spans all forms of communication and engagement including physical and softphones, messaging, email marketing, insurance verification, online appointment scheduling, reviews, payments, digital forms, and more. Through authorized and supported integrations with leading practice management systems (PMS), we automate and personalize patient communications while embedding FinTech solutionssuch as text-to-pay, online bill pay, and payment plansdirectly into communication workflows. By streamlining payment processes, Weave accelerates collections, reduces write-offs, and improves practice profitability. Recent Developments On May 4, 2025, the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement) to acquire Vidurama, Inc., a Delaware corporation (TrueLark), an AI-powered receptionist and front-desk automation platform provider. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, Project Sparrow Merger Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Weave (Merger Sub), will merge with and into TrueLark (the Merger), with TrueLark continuing as the surviving corporation of the Merger. Under the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement, all of the outstanding capital stock of TrueLark, and all options and other rights to purchase TrueLark capital stock, will be canceled and converted into the right to receive an aggregate of $35.0 million (the Purchase Price), comprised of $25.0 million in cash and $10.0 million in shares, subject to certain closing and potential post-closing adjustments. Weave expects to issue 999,810 shares of its common stock in connection with the closing of the Merger (the Shares). Certain portions of the Purchase Price (both cash and Shares) will be subject to holdback provisions to secure potential post-closing adjustments to the Purchase Price and the indemnification obligations of certain TrueLark securityholders.The Company intends to fund the cash portion of the Purchase Price with cash on hand. Additionally, in connection with the closing of the transaction, Weave intends to grant performance-based restricted stock unit awards to certain key personnel of TrueLark with vesting over a two-year period. Supplemental Financial Information Disaggregated Revenue and Cost of Revenue To supplement our discussion of our consolidated results of operations, we have separated our revenue and cost of revenue into recurring and non-recurring categories to disaggregate revenue and costs of revenue that are one-time in nature from those that are term-based and renewable. We generate revenue primarily from recurring subscription fees charged to access our platform, which also include recurring phone hardware fees. These recurring revenues accounted for 91% and 93% of our revenue the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. In addition, we provide recurring payment processing services through Weave Payments and derive revenue from transactions between our customers that utilize Weave Payments and their end consumers. 19 Table of Contents We also derive revenue associated with non-recurring installation fees for onboarding customers and from embedded leases on phone hardware. We utilize our onboarding services and phone hardware as customer acquisition tools and price them competitively to lower the barriers to entry for new customers adopting our platform. As a result, the variable cost associated with providing phone hardware and onboarding assistance has historically exceeded the related revenue, resulting in negative gross profit for each. The revenue and related costs associated with onboarding new customers are typically non-recurring and are primarily associated with the initial setup of a customers software and phone system. Revenue on phone hardware provided to our customers, deemed embedded lease revenue, is recognized over the related subscription period. The associated costs, which primarily represent depreciation expense on phone hardware financed under finance lease arrangements, are incurred over the useful lives of the phone hardware, which is 36 months. We consider the net costs of onboarding and phone hardware, in addition to our sales and marketing activities, to be core elements of our customer acquisition approach. The table below sets forth the revenue and associated cost of revenue for our recurring subscription and payment processing services, as well as for our onboarding services and phone hardware: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (dollars in thousands) Subscription and payment processing: Revenue $ 53,415 $ 45,092 Cost of revenue (12,081) (10,536) Gross profit $ 41,334 $ 34,556 Gross margin 77 % 77 % Onboarding: Revenue $ 888 $ 960 Cost of revenue (1,992) (1,832) Gross profit $ (1,104) $ (872) Gross margin (124) % (91) % Phone Hardware: Revenue $ 1,506 $ 1,121 Cost of revenue(1) (1,791) (1,818) Gross profit(1) $ (285) $ (697) Gross margin (19) % (62) % ______________ (1) Cost of revenue related to phone hardware represents depreciation of phone hardware over a 3-year useful life. Factors Affecting Our Performance Our historical financial performance has been, and we expect our financial performance in the future to be, driven by our ability to attract new customers, retain and expand within our customer base, add new products, and expand into new industry verticals. Attract New Customers Our ability to attract new customers is dependent upon a number of factors, including the effectiveness of our pricing and products, the sum total of the features and pricing of the alternative point solution patchwork, the effectiveness of our marketing efforts, the effectiveness of our channel partners in selling and marketing our platform, our ability to integrate our platform with practice management systems 20 Table of Contents (PMS), which strengthens our product market fit and increases the value our platform provides to customers, and the growth of the market for a customer experience and payments software platform. Sustaining our growth requires continued adoption of our platform by new customers. We aim to add new customers through a combination of unpaid channels, such as recommendations and word of mouth, and paid channels, such as digital marketing, direct mail, trade shows and industry events, brand marketing and our teams of sales representatives. Historically, our go-to-market strategy focused on increasing the number of locations with most of our customers having a single location. In 2024, we introduced the enhanced Weave platform, which is built on a fully modern tech stack and is web-based, enabling users to multitask, customize the layout and form factor, and take advantage of new features and AI capabilities only available in the new platform. The new enhanced platform also powers Weave Enterprise, a solution designed specifically for organizations with multiple locations. Weave Enterprise allows us to better service these organizations through centralized administration and reporting capabilities, which gives them a control center from which they can monitor and affect multiple locations' operations and software configuration simultaneously. In addition to pursuing continued customer growth among small businesses, we intend to pursue opportunities to expand our customer base among medium-sized businesses, with a particular focus on our core specialty healthcare verticals. Our ability to expand among medium-sized businesses will depend upon our ability to successfully sell our enhanced Weave platform to multi-location organizations and effectively retain them. Retain and Expand Within Our Customer Base Our ability to retain and increase revenue within our existing customer base is dependent upon a number of factors, including customer satisfaction with our platform and support, the sum total of the features and pricing of the alternative point solution patchwork, our ability to effectively enhance our platform by developing new applications and features and addressing additional use cases, and our ability to leverage and scale our core sales efforts and marketing capabilities to increase our penetration into our core specialty healthcare verticals. The deployment of the Weave phone system as part of the platform at each of our customers improves retention and customer loyalty. Historically, our subscriptions have provided our new customers with immediate access to the majority of our products and functionality. However, we have released additional add-on products in recent years, such as Bulk Texting and Forms, which we are increasingly successful at cross-selling to our customer base. We intend to continue to invest in enhancing awareness of our platform, creating additional use cases, and developing more products, features and functionality. Customer retention also impacts our future financial performance given its potential to drive improved gross margin. The initial onboarding costs as well as the cost of phone hardware, which is depreciated over three years, represent substantial cost of revenue elements during the first few years of a customers life. We believe our disaggregated revenue and cost of revenue financial data, particularly our subscription and payment processing gross margin, provide insight into the impact of customer retention on overall gross margin improvement. Our subscription and payment processing gross margin was 77% for each of the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024. Add New Products We continue to add new products and functionality to our platform, broadening our use cases and applicability for different customers. In 2024, we introduced our enhanced Weave platform and Weave Enterprise, which together bring an enhanced interface and experience for both single- and multi-location customers. Our ability to cohesively deliver a deep product suite with as little friction as possible to customers is a key determinant of winning new customers. Our ability to add new SMB customers is dependent on the features and functionality we add to our platform, including those enabled by AI, particularly in our core specialty healthcare verticals. The depth of our platforms functionality is dependent upon both our internally-developed technology and our platform partnerships and integrations. 21 Table of Contents We expect our future success in winning new clients to be partially driven by our ability to continue to develop and deliver new, innovative products to SMBs in a timely manner. Expand to New Industry Verticals We believe we have built a flexible platform that encompasses the majority of the functionality needed for customer experience and engagement across industry verticals, and we have developed a repeatable playbook for assessing new industry verticals. Entering a new industry vertical includes evaluating product-market fit and establishing key integration partnerships with the primary systems of record in that vertical. We started in dental and have since successfully expanded to optometry, veterinary and other specialty medical verticals. While we are focused on continued growth within our core specialty healthcare verticals and adjacent healthcare markets, we continue to evaluate additional expansion opportunities. Key Business Metrics In addition to our financial information that is presented in accordance with the generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (U.S. GAAP), we review several operating and financial metrics, including the following key metrics to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, formulate business plans and make strategic decisions. March 31, 2025 2024 Dollar-based net retention rate 98 % 96 % Dollar-based gross retention rate 91 % 92 % Dollar-Based Net Retention Rate We believe our dollar-based net retention rate (NRR) provides insight into our ability to retain and grow revenue from our customer locations, as well as their potential long-term value to us. For retention rate calculations, we use adjusted monthly revenue (AMR), which is calculated for each location as the sum of (i) the subscription component of revenue for each month and (ii) the average of the trailing-three-month recurring payments revenue. Since payments revenue represents the revenue we recognize on payment processing volume, which is reported net of transaction processing fees, we believe the three-month average appropriately adjusts for short-term fluctuations in transaction volume. To calculate our NRR, we first identify the cohort of locations, or the Base Locations, that were active in a particular month, or the Base Month. We then divide AMR for the Base Locations in the same month of the subsequent year, or the Comparison Month, by AMR in the Base Month to derive a monthly NRR. AMR in the Comparison Month includes the impact of any churn, revenue contraction, revenue expansion, and pricing changes, and by definition does not include any new customer locations under subscription added between the Base Month and Comparison Month. We derive our annual NRR as of any date by taking a weighted average of the monthly net retention rates over the trailing twelve months prior to such date. 22 Table of Contents Dollar-Based Gross Retention Rate We believe our dollar-based gross retention rate (GRR) provides insight into our ability to retain our customers, allowing us to evaluate whether the platform is addressing customer needs. To calculate our GRR, we first identify the Base Locations that were under subscription in the Base Month. We then calculate the effect of reductions in revenue from customer location terminations by measuring the amount of AMR in the Base Month for Base Locations still under subscription twelve months subsequent to the Base Month, or Remaining AMR. We then divide Remaining AMR for the Base Locations by AMR in the Base Month for the Base Locations to derive a monthly gross retention rate. We calculate GRR as of any date by taking a weighted average of the monthly gross retention rates over the trailing twelve months prior to such date. GRR reflects the effect of customer locations that terminate their subscriptions, but does not reflect changes in revenue due to revenue expansion, revenue contraction, or the addition of new customer locations. Components of Results of Operations Revenue We generate revenue primarily from recurring subscription fees charged to access our software and phone services platform, and recurring embedded lease revenue on phone hardware provided to customers. The majority of these subscription arrangements have contractual month-to-month terms, with a small minority portion having contractual terms of 1-3 years. Subscription and phone hardware fees are prepaid and customers may elect to be billed monthly or annually, with the majority of our revenue coming from those that elect to be billed monthly. To incentivize annual payments, we may offer pricing concessions that apply ratably over the twelve-month subscription plan. As of March 31, 2025 and 2024, approximately 33% and 40% of customer locations elected annual prepayments, respectively. Subscription revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the subscription agreement. Amounts billed in excess of revenue recognized are reported in deferred revenue on the Companys condensed consolidated balance sheets. In addition, we provide payment processing services and receive a revenue share from a third-party payment facilitator on transactions between our customers that utilize our payments platform and their end consumers. These payment transactions are generally for services rendered at customers business location via credit card terminals or through several card-not-present modalities, including Text-to-Pay functionality. As we act as an agent in these arrangements, revenue from payments services is recorded net of transaction processing fees and is recognized when the payment transactions occur. We also collect non-recurring installation fees for onboarding customers, the revenue for which is recognized upon completion of the installation. Our customers may directly engage with third-party independent contractors to configure phone hardware, install the software and assist with upgrades, for which we do not derive any revenue. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue consists of costs related to providing our platform to customers and costs to support our customers. Direct costs associated with providing our platform include data center and cloud infrastructure costs, payment processing costs, amortization of finance lease right-of-use assets on phone hardware provided to customers, fees and revenue shares to application providers, voice connectivity and messaging fees, and amortization of internal-use software development costs. Indirect costs include personnel-related expenses, such as salaries, benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation expense, of our onboarding and customer support staff. Cost of revenue also includes an allocation of overhead costs for facilities and shared IT-related expenses, including depreciation expense. As we acquire new customers and existing customers increase their use of our cloud-based platform, we expect that the dollar amount of our cost of revenue will continue to increase. However, our cost of revenue has been and will continue to be affected by a number of factors, including increased regulatory 23 Table of Contents fees on text messaging and phone calls, the quantity and aging of phones provided to customers, changes to fees paid to application providers, adoption of AI-based features, future changes to the cloud infrastructure costs to support AI-based features, our stock-based compensation expense, and the timing of the amortization of internal-use software development costs, which could cause it to fluctuate as a percentage of revenue in future periods. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative expenses. Personnel costs are the most significant component of operating expenses and consist of salaries, benefits, bonuses, stock-based compensation and sales commissions. Operating expenses also include allocated overhead costs for facilities and shared IT-related expenses, including depreciation expense. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel-related expenses associated with our sales and marketing staff, including salaries, benefits, sales commissions, bonuses and stock-based compensation. Sales commissions paid on new subscriptions to our software, phone, and payments services are deferred and amortized over the expected period of benefit, which is determined to be three years. In addition to personnel-related expenses, marketing expenses consist of lead-generating and other advertising activities, as well as the cost of traveling to and attending trade shows. We expect that our sales and marketing expenses will increase and continue to be our largest operating expense for the foreseeable future as we grow our business. As a percentage of revenue, we anticipate sales and marketing expenses to decrease in 2025 as compared to 2024, and we expect these expenses to decrease as a percentage of revenue over time. Research and Development Research and development expenses include software development costs that are not eligible for capitalization and support our efforts to ensure the reliability, availability and scalability of our solutions. Our platform is software-driven, and its research and development teams employ software engineers in the continuous testing, certification and support of our platform and products. Accordingly, the majority of our research and development expenses result from employee-related costs, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, stock-based compensation and costs associated with technology tools used by our engineers. We expect that our research and development expenses will increase as our business grows, particularly as we incur additional costs related to continued investments in our platform and products. However, we expect that our research and development expenses will remain fairly consistent as a percentage of our revenue over time. In addition, research and development expenses that qualify as internal-use software development costs are capitalized and the amount capitalized may fluctuate significantly from period to period. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel-related expenses for our finance, legal, human resources, facilities and administrative personnel, including salaries, benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation. General and administrative expenses also include external legal, accounting, and other professional services fees, software and subscription services dedicated for use by our general and administrative functions, insurance and other corporate expenses. We expect that our general and administrative expenses, including expenses for insurance, investor relations and fees for professional services, will increase in absolute dollars as our business grows but will decrease as a percentage of our revenue over time. 24 Table of Contents Interest Income Interest income consists primarily of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments. Interest Expense Interest expense results primarily from interest payments on our borrowings and interest on finance lease obligations. Interest on borrowings is based on a floating per annum rate at specified percentages above the prime rate. Interest on finance leases is based on the rate implicit within the lease agreement. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net primarily consists of gains and losses on short-term investments, foreign currency transactions, and sublease income. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists primarily of income taxes related to foreign and state jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Because of the uncertainty of the realization of the deferred tax assets, we have a full valuation allowance for domestic net deferred tax assets, including net operating loss carryforwards. Results of Operations The following table sets forth our condensed consolidated statements of operations data for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Revenue $ 55,809 $ 47,173 Cost of revenue (1) 15,864 14,186 Gross profit 39,945 32,987 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing (1) 23,526 19,630 Research and development (1) (2) 11,153 9,645 General and administrative (1) (2) 14,586 11,867 Total operating expenses 49,265 41,142 Loss from operations (9,320) (8,155) Other income (expense): Interest income 463 420 Interest expense (397) (319) Other income (expense), net 500 865 Loss before income taxes (8,754) (7,189) Provision for income taxes (71) (14) Net loss $ (8,825) $ (7,203) ______________ (1)Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: 25 Table of Contents Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 285 $ 239 Sales and marketing 1,841 1,151 Research and development 2,362 1,898 General and administrative 4,497 3,484 Total stock-based compensation $ 8,985 $ 6,772 See Note 10 of the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for further details on stock-based compensation expense. (2)Includes acquisition transaction costs as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Research and development 4 General and administrative 370 Total acquisition transaction costs $ 374 $ The following table sets forth our condensed consolidated statements of operations data expressed as a percentage of revenue for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (percentage of total revenue) Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 28 30 Gross margin 72 70 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 42 42 Research and development 20 20 General and administrative 26 25 Total operating expenses 88 87 Loss from operations (17) (17) Other income (expense): Interest income 1 1 Interest expense (1) (1) Other income (expense), net 1 2 Loss before income taxes (16) (15) Provision for income taxes Net loss (16) % (15) % 26 Table of Contents Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 Amount Percentage (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 55,809 $ 47,173 $ 8,636 18 % Revenue increased by $8.6 million, or 18%, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. Of the total increase, approximately $7.6 million, or 88%, was attributable to new customer locations acquired during the 12 months subsequent to March 31, 2024. Approximately $1.0 million, or 12%, of the increase was attributable to existing customer locations under subscription as of March 31, 2024. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 Amount Percentage (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 15,864 $ 14,186 $ 1,678 12 % Gross margin 72 % 70 % The increase in cost of revenue was due primarily to an increase of $1.3 million in direct costs to support customer usage and growth of our customer base, including cloud infrastructure costs, fees paid to application providers, and connectivity and messaging costs. In addition, there was an increase of $0.4 million in personnel-related costs, particularly related to merit increases and new hires. Our gross margin improvement is derived from a favorable customer mix as a greater portion of our customers had fully depreciated phone hardware, and from efficiencies with third-party costs incurred for specific platform features and overall data usage as part of our cost management efforts. Further, this improvement was bolstered by an increase in payments revenue, which has a higher gross margin than our other offerings. Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 Amount Percentage (dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 23,526 $ 19,630 $ 3,896 20 % The increase in sales and marketing expenses was attributable in part to an increase of $2.1 million in personnel-related expenses, driven largely by salary and commission plan adjustments, as well as increased average headcount, which caused approximately $1.4 million of the increase. The remaining $0.7 million increase of personnel-related expenses was related to stock-based compensation related to grants for new and existing employees and executives. We also increased demand generation expenses by $1.5 million, particularly with our digital media, partner marketing, and third-party advertisement efforts. 27 Table of Contents In addition, we incurred $0.2 million in additional event-related costs due to increased spending on in-person trade shows and a $0.1 million increase in overhead allocation. Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 Amount Percentage (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 11,153 $ 9,645 $ 1,508 16 % The increase in research and development expenses was due to an increase of $1.4 million in personnel-related expenses, largely from increased salary expenses of $0.9 million due to increased headcount and salary increases, and additional stock-based compensation expense of $0.5 million related to grants for new and existing employees. We also incurred $0.1 million of additional expenses in dues and subscriptions costs. General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 Amount Percentage (dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 14,586 $ 11,867 $ 2,719 23 % The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to a $2.0 million increase in personnel-related expenses, particularly from increased salary expenses of $1.0 million due to increased headcount and salary increases for existing employees, and increased stock-based compensation expense of $1.0 million related to grants for new and existing employees. We also experienced an increase of $0.7 million related to professional services fees, approximately $0.4 million of which were incurred in connection with the pending acquisition of TrueLark. Other Income (Expense), Net Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 Amount Percentage (dollars in thousands) Interest income $ 463 $ 420 Interest expense (397) (319) Other income, net 500 865 Total other income (expense), net $ 566 $ 966 $ (400) (41) % The increase in interest income is due to an increase in interest generated on our money market securities as a result of higher average daily cash and cash equivalent balances over the period. The decrease in other income (expense), net is largely due to realized losses on our short-term investments and, to a lesser extent, a decrease in average interest rates over the period which contributed to the decrease in other income. Non-GAAP Financial Measures To supplement our unaudited consolidated financial statements, which are prepared in conformity with U.S. GAAP, we use free cash flow, free cash flow margin and Adjusted EBITDA, which are non-GAAP financial measures, to enhance the understanding of our U.S. GAAP financial measures, evaluate growth trends, establish budgets, and assess operating performance. These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered by the reader as substitutes for, or superior to, the financial statements and 28 Table of Contents financial information prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. See below for a description of these non-GAAP financial measures, reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures and their limitations as an analytical tool. Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (dollars in thousands) Net cash used in operating activities $ (219) $ (19,701) Net cash provided by investing activities 2,258 6,131 Net cash used in financing activities (225) (6,577) Free cash flow (1,062) (20,519) Net cash used in operating activities as a percentage of revenue % (42) % Free cash flow margin (2) % (43) % Net loss (8,825) (7,203) Adjusted EBITDA $ 1,020 $ (358) Free Cash Flow and Free Cash Flow Margin We define free cash flow as net cash used in operating activities, less purchases of property and equipment and capitalized internal-use software costs, and free cash flow margin as free cash flow as a percentage of revenue. We believe that free cash flow and free cash flow margin are useful indicators of liquidity that provide useful information to management and investors, even if negative, as they provide information about the amount of cash consumed by our combined operating and investing activities. For example, as free cash flow has in the past been negative, we have needed to access cash reserves or other sources of capital for these investments. Adjusted EBITDA We define EBITDA as earnings before interest expense, interest income, other income/expense, provision for income taxes, depreciation, and amortization. Our depreciation adjustment includes depreciation on operating fixed assets and we do not adjust for amortization of finance lease right-of-use assets on phone hardware provided to our customers. Our amortization adjustment includes the amortization of capitalized costs from both internal-use software development and cloud computing arrangements. We further adjust EBITDA to exclude stock-based compensation expense, a non-cash item, and acquisition transaction costs, which we believe are not reflective of ongoing results of operations in the period incurred and not directly related to the operation of our business. Acquisition transaction costs include legal and accounting professional services costs incurred during the period as a result of our acquisition activities. We believe that Adjusted EBITDA provides management and investors consistency and comparability with our past financial performance and facilitates period-to-period comparisons of operations. Additionally, management uses Adjusted EBITDA to measure our financial and operational performance and prepare our budgets. Limitations and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures Non-GAAP financial measures have limitations as analytical tools and should not be considered in isolation or as substitutes for financial information presented under U.S. GAAP. There are a number of limitations related to the use of non-GAAP financial measures versus comparable financial measures determined under U.S. GAAP. For example, the non-GAAP financial information presented above may be determined or calculated differently by other companies and may not be directly comparable to that of other companies. In addition, free cash flow does not reflect our future contractual commitments and the total increase or decrease of our cash balance for a given period. Further, Adjusted EBITDA excludes some costs, namely, non-cash stock-based compensation expense and acquisition transaction costs. 29 Table of Contents Therefore, Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect the non-cash impact of stock-based compensation expense or working capital needs that will continue for the foreseeable future. All of these limitations could reduce the usefulness of these non-GAAP financial measures as analytical tools. Investors are encouraged to review the related U.S. GAAP financial measures and the reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures and to not rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business. Free Cash Flow and Free Cash Flow Margin U.S. GAAP Reconciliation Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 55,809 $ 47,173 Net cash used in operating activities $ (219) $ (19,701) Less: Purchase of property and equipment (444) (513) Less: Capitalized internal-use software (399) (305) Free cash flow $ (1,062) $ (20,519) Net cash provided by investing activities $ 2,258 $ 6,131 Net cash used in financing activities $ (225) $ (6,577) Net cash used in operating activities as a percentage of revenue % (42) % Free cash flow margin (2) % (43) % Adjusted EBITDA U.S. GAAP Reconciliation Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Net loss $ (8,825) $ (7,203) Interest expense 397 319 Provision for income taxes 71 14 Interest income (463) (420) Other income/expense, net (500) (865) Depreciation(1) 511 609 Amortization(2) 470 416 Stock-based compensation 8,985 6,772 Acquisition transaction costs(3) $ 374 $ Adjusted EBITDA $ 1,020 $ (358) ______________ (1) Does not include amortization of finance lease right-of-use assets on phone hardware provided to our customers. (2) Represents amortization of capitalized internal-use software and cloud computing costs. (3) Represents legal and accounting professional services costs incurred as a result of our acquisition activities during the period. Liquidity and Capital Resources Since inception, we have financed our operations primarily through cash generated from the sale of subscriptions to our platform, and the net proceeds received from issuances of our equity securities. We 30 Table of Contents have generated losses from our operations as reflected in our accumulated deficit of $299.8 million as of March 31, 2025 and generally have generated negative cash flows from operations. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including revenue growth and costs incurred to support customer usage and growth in our customer base, and increased research and development expenses to support the growth of our business and related infrastructure. We expect our operating cash flows to further improve as we increase our operational efficiency and experience economies of scale. As of March 31, 2025, our principal sources of liquidity were cash held as deposits in financial institutions and cash equivalents consisting of highly liquid investments in money market securities of $53.4 million, as well as $44.8 million in other short-term investments comprised primarily of treasury and commercial paper instruments. In May of 2025, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire TrueLark for a total consideration of $35.0 million, which includes a cash payment of $25.0 million, subject to certain adjustments, that upon consummation of the acquisition will reduce the cash, cash equivalents, and other short-term investments available to us by the same amount. A substantial source of our cash inflow from operating activities is our deferred revenue, which is included on our consolidated balance sheets as a liability. Deferred revenue consists of the unearned portion of billed fees for our subscriptions, which is recorded as revenue over the subscription term. We had $38.9 million of deferred revenue recorded as a current liability as of March 31, 2025. This deferred revenue will be recognized as revenue when all of the revenue recognition criteria are met. We assess our liquidity primarily through our cash on hand as well as the projected timing of billings under contract with our paying customers and related collection cycles. We believe our current cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and amounts available under our senior secured credit facility will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next twelve months. The following table shows a summary of our cash flows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (dollars in thousands) Net cash used in operating activities $ (219) $ (19,701) Net cash provided by investing activities 2,258 6,131 Net cash used in financing activities (225) (6,577) Operating Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2025, cash used in operating activities was $0.2 million, primarily due to a net loss of $8.8 million, adjusted for net non-cash charges of $16.1 million and net cash outflows of $7.5 million from changes in our operating assets and liabilities. The drivers of the changes in operating assets and liabilities were an $4.4 million increase in deferred contract costs comprising mainly sales commissions earned on bookings, a $0.5 million increase in prepaid expenses, $3.7 million decrease in accounts payable, a $1.1 million decrease in deferred revenue, and a $1.0 million decrease in operating lease liabilities. These amounts were partially offset by a $2.7 million increase in accrued liabilities and a $0.4 million decrease in accounts receivable. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, cash used in operating activities was $19.7 million, primarily due to a net loss of $7.2 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $13.7 million and net cash outflows of $26.2 million from changes in our operating assets and liabilities. The main drivers of the changes in operating assets and liabilities were a $15.8 million increase in accounts receivable, a $4.6 million decrease in accrued liabilities, and a $4.1 million increase in deferred contract costs, comprising mainly sales commissions earned on bookings. These amounts were partially offset by a $0.8 million increase to deferred revenue due to our prepay arrangements with our customers. 31 Table of Contents Investing Activities Cash provided by investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2025 was $2.3 million, due to $18.6 million in short-term investment maturities, partially offset by $15.5 million in purchases of short-term investments. Additional investing cash flow activities included $0.4 million of furniture and equipment additions and $0.4 million in personnel-related costs capitalized as internal-use software development. Cash provided by investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $6.1 million, primarily due to $23.8 million in short-term investment maturities, partially offset by $16.8 million in purchases of short-term investments. Additional investing cash flow activities included $0.5 million of furniture and equipment additions and $0.3 million in personnel-related costs capitalized as internal-use software development. Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2025 was $0.2 million, primarily due to principal payments on finance lease obligations of $1.8 million. These outflows were partially offset by cash proceeds of $1.1 million from the employee stock purchase plan, and proceeds from employee stock option exercises of $0.5 million. Cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $6.6 million, primarily due to $6.1 million in employee taxes paid related to the net settlement of restricted stock units, and principal payments on finance lease obligations of $1.8 million. These outflows were partially offset by cash proceeds from employee stock option exercises of $0.3 million, and proceeds of $1.0 million from the employee stock purchase plan. Contractual Obligations and Commitments During the three months ended March 31, 2025, we acquired $2.2 million of additional right of use assets through new finance lease obligations. Other than the new finance lease obligations, there have been no material changes to our contractual obligations from those described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on March 13, 2025. Indemnifications Certain of our agreements with partners, resellers and customers include provisions for indemnification against liabilities should our platform contribute to a data compromise, particularly a compromise of protected health information (PHI). We have not incurred any costs as a result of such indemnification obligations historically and have not accrued any liabilities related to such obligations in our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements as of March 31, 2025. Silicon Valley Bank Credit Facility In August 2021, we established a revolving line of credit with SVB with total borrowing capacity up to $50.0 million, subject to reduction should we fail to meet certain metrics for recurring revenue and customer retention (the August 2021 Agreement). The line of credit, as amended, matures in August 2025. Amounts outstanding on the line of credit accrues interest at the greater of prime rate plus 0.25% and 3.50%. We are required to pay an annual fee of $0.1 million beginning on the effective date of the August 2021 Agreement, and continuing on the anniversary of the effective date. We are also required to pay a quarterly unused line of credit fee of 0.15% per annum of the available borrowing amount should the outstanding principal balance drop below $10.0 million (calculated based on the number of days and based on the average available borrowing amount). The line of credit is collateralized by substantially all of our assets. The August 2021 Agreement, as amended in March 2024, includes financial covenants requiring that, at any time, if our total unrestricted cash and cash equivalents held at SVB, plus our short- 32 Table of Contents term investments managed by SVB, is less than $100 million, we must at all times thereafter maintain a consolidated minimum $20 million in liquidity, meaning unencumbered cash and short-term investments plus available borrowing on the line of credit, and that we are required to meet specified minimum levels of EBITDA, as adjusted for stock-based compensation and changes in our deferred revenue. We did not take any advances on the line of credit in the three months ended March 31, 2025. As of March 31, 2025, there was no outstanding balance on the line of credit, the full $50.0 million capacity was available for borrowing, and we were in compliance with all SVB loan covenants. Critical Accounting Estimates Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements also requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows may be affected. For information on our critical accounting estimates, see the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024, filed with the SEC on March 13, 2025. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting estimates as compared those disclosed in our 2024 Form 10-K. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements For information on recent accounting pronouncements, see the sections titled Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting PoliciesAccounting Pronouncements Adopted and Accounting Pronouncements Pending Adoption in Note 2 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Emerging Growth Company Status We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (the JOBS Act), and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. We may take advantage of these exemptions until we are no longer an emerging growth company. Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of the extended transition period afforded by the JOBS Act for the implementation of new or revised accounting standards. We have elected to use the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards and as a result of this election, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with public company effective dates. We may take advantage of these exemptions up until the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of our IPO or such earlier time that we are no longer an emerging growth company. We would cease to be an emerging growth company if we have more than $1.235 billion in annual revenue, we have more than $700.0 million in market value of our stock held by non-affiliates on the last day of the second fiscal quarter of any given year (and we have been a public company for at least twelve months and have filed at least one annual report on Form 10-K) or we issue more than $1.0 billion of non-convertible debt securities over a three-year period.