ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and related notes in Item 1. Financial Statements contained herein and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 filed with the SEC on March 31, 2017 (2016 Form 10-K). The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our future plans, estimates, beliefs and expected performance. The forward-looking statements are dependent upon events, risks and uncertainties that may be outside our control. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, market prices for oil, natural gas and NGLs, production volumes, estimates of proved reserves, capital expenditures, economic and competitive conditions, drilling results, regulatory changes and other uncertainties, as well as those factors discussed in Part IItem 1A. Risk Factors of our 2016 Form 10-K, Part IIItem 1A. Risk Factors contained in this Quarterly Report and Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements in the front of the Quarterly Report. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed may not occur. We do not undertake any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements except as otherwise required by applicable law. Overview WildHorse Resource Development Corporation (the Company) is a Delaware corporation, the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of which is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol WRD. We operate in one reportable segment engaged in the acquisition, exploitation, development and production of oil, natural gas and NGL resources. Our assets are characterized by concentrated acreage positions in Southeast Texas and North Louisiana with multiple producing stratigraphic horizons, or stacked pay zones, and attractive single-well rates of return. In Southeast Texas, we primarily operate in Burleson, Lee and Washington Counties where we primarily target the Eagle Ford Shale. In North Louisiana, we operate in and around the highly prolific Terryville Complex, where we primarily target the over-pressured Cotton Valley play. As of December 31, 2016, we had assembled a total leasehold position of approximately 467,319 gross (371,198 net) acres across our expanding acreage, including approximately 321,661 gross (262,742 net) acres in the Eagle Ford and approximately 145,658 gross (108,456 net) acres in North Louisiana. We have identified a total of approximately 4,548 gross (2,350 net) drilling locations across our acreage as of December 31, 2016. Recent Developments APC/KKR Acquisition On May 10, 2017, we, through our new wholly owned subsidiary, WHR Eagle Ford LLC (WHR EF), entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement (the First Acquisition Agreement) by and among WHR EF, as purchaser, and Anadarko E&P Onshore LLC (APC), Admiral A Holding L.P., TE Admiral A Holding L.P. and Aurora C-I Holding L.P. (collectively, KKR and, together with APC, the First Sellers), as sellers, to acquire certain acres and associated production in Burleson, Brazos, Lee, Milam, Robertson, and Washington Counties, Texas (the Purchase). Also on May 10, 2017, WHR EF entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement (together, with the First Acquisition Agreement, the Acquisition Agreements), by and among WHR EF, as purchaser, and APC and Anadarko Energy Services Company (together, with APC, the APC Subs and together, with the First Sellers, the Sellers), as sellers, to acquire certain acres and associated production in Burleson, Brazos, Lee, Milam, Robertson, and Washington Counties, Texas (together, with the Purchase, the Acquisition). Pursuant to the Acquisition Agreements, we are acquiring approximately 111,000 aggregate net acres and the associated production therefrom. The aggregate purchase price for the assets, as described in the Acquisition Agreements, subject to customary adjustments as provided in the Acquisition Agreements, consists of approximately $556 million of cash to the APC Subs, as applicable, and approximately 6.3 million shares of our common stock valued at approximately $69 million to KKR (in the aggregate, the Purchase Price). The common stock portion of the Purchase price payable to KKR will be issued pursuant to a Stock Issuance Agreement that was executed, on May 10, 2017 (the Stock Issuance Agreement), by and among us and KKR. We and KKR have made customary representations, warranties and covenants in the Stock Issuance Agreement. The closing of the common stock issuance is conditioned upon and will occur simultaneous with the closing of the Acquisition. We and the Sellers have made customary representations, warranties and covenants in the Acquisition Agreements. The Sellers have made certain additional customary covenants, including, among others, covenants to conduct its business in the ordinary course between the execution of the Acquisition Agreements and the closing of the Acquisition and not to engage in certain kinds of transactions during that period, subject to certain exceptions. The Sellers have agreed not to take certain specified actions without our consent during the time between execution of the Acquisition Agreements and the closing of the Acquisition. 30 Consummation of the Acquisition is subject to customary conditions. The Acquisition is expected to close on or about June 30, 2017 wi th an effective date of January 1, 2017. The Acquisition Agreements may be terminated under customary circumstances. The foregoing summary of the Acquisition Agreements and the transactions contemplated thereby does not purport to be complete and is subject to, and qualified in its entirety by, the full text of the Acquisition Agreements, which are filed as Exhibits 2.2 and 2.3 to this Quarterly Report, and incorporated herein by reference. Preferred Stock Issuance To partially fund the cash portion of the Purchase Price, on May 10, 2017, we entered in to a Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement (the Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement), by and among us and CP VI Eagle Holdings, L.P. (Carlyle), an affiliate of The Carlyle Group, whereby we agreed to issue and sell to Carlyle, and Carlyle agreed to purchase from us, 435,000 shares of our preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share, designated as Series A Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock (the Preferred Stock), having terms set forth in the Certificate of Designations, a form of which is an annex to the Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement. The Preferred Stock will rank senior to our common stock with respect to dividend rights and with respect to rights on liquidation, winding-up and dissolution. The Preferred Stock will have an initial liquidation preference of $1,000 per share and will pay a dividend rate of 6% per annum in cash or, if a cash dividend is not declared and paid in respect of any dividend payment period, by adding additional amounts to the liquidation preference in kind. The Preferred Stock will also participate in dividends and distributions on our common stock on an as-converted basis. If at any time following the 30-month anniversary of the issuance date the closing sale price of our common stock equals or exceeds 130% of the Conversion Price (as defined below) for at least 25 consecutive trading days, our obligation to pay dividends on the Preferred Stock shall terminate permanently. The Preferred Stock is convertible at the option of the holders at any time following the first anniversary of the closing date into the amount of shares of common stock per share of Preferred Stock (such rate, the Conversion Rate) equal to (i) the quotient of (A) the sum of the Liquidation Preference (as defined in the Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement) plus an amount equal to the accrued but unpaid dividends and distributions not previously added to the Liquidation Preference divided by (B) a conversion price of $13.90 (the Conversion Price), subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments. The holders of Preferred Stock may also convert their Preferred Stock at the Conversion Rate prior to the first anniversary of the closing date in connection with certain change of control transactions and in connection with sales of common stock by certain of our existing shareholders. Following the fourth anniversary of the closing date, the Company may cause the conversion of the Preferred Stock at the Conversion Rate, provided the closing sale price of the common stock equals or exceeds 140% of the Conversion Price for the 20 trading days ending on and including the date of delivery of the Companys notice to convert and subject to certain other requirements regarding registration of the shares issuable upon conversion. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall only be permitted to deliver one conversion notice during any 180 day period and the number of shares of common stock issued upon conversion of the Preferred Stock for which such automatic conversion notice is given shall be limited to 25 times the average daily trading volume of our common stock during the 20 trading days ending on and including the date of delivery of the Companys notice to convert. If the Company undergoes certain change of control transactions, the holders of the Preferred Stock shall be entitled to cause the Company to redeem the Preferred Stock for cash in an amount equal to the Liquidation Preference, plus the net present value of dividend payments that would have been accrued as payable to the holders following the date of the consummation of such change of control and through the day that is 30 months after the closing date, in the case of any change of control occurring prior to the 30-month anniversary of the closing date (the COC Redemption Price). In addition, the Company will have the right in connection with any such change of control transaction to redeem any Preferred Stock that is not otherwise converted or redeemed as described in the preceding sentence for cash at the COC Redemption Price. At any time after the fifth anniversary of the closing date, the Company may redeem the Preferred Stock, in whole or in part, for an amount in cash equal to, per each share of Preferred Stock, (i) on or prior to the sixth anniversary of the closing date, the Liquidation Preference multiplied by 112%, (ii) on or prior to the seventh anniversary of the closing date, the Liquidation Preference multiplied by 109% or (ii) after the seventh anniversary of the closing date, the Liquidation Preference multiplied by 106%. Until conversion, the holders of the Preferred Stock will vote together with our common stock on an as-converted basis and will also have rights to vote as a separate class on certain matters impacting the Preferred Stock. However, the Preferred Stock will not be entitled to vote with the common stock on an as-converted basis, will not be convertible into our common stock and will not be entitled to the board election rights described below until the later of (i) the 21st day after the date on which we mail to our shareholders an information statement regarding the issuance of the Preferred Stock and (ii) the date certain required regulatory approvals are obtained. In addition, Carlyle as a holder of Preferred Stock will be entitled to elect (i) two directors to our board of directors for so long as Carlyle owns 10% of our outstanding common stock on an as-converted basis and (ii) one board seat for so long as Carlyle holds 5% of our outstanding common stock on an as-converted basis. 31 The closing of the Preferred Stock issuance is conditi oned upon and will close simultaneously with the closing of the Acquisition. As conditions to closing under the Stock Issuance Agreement and the Preferred Purchase Agreement we have agreed to amend and restate our existing registration rights agreement with WHR Holdings, LLC, Esquisto Holdings, LLC, WHE AcqCo Holdings, LLC, NGP XI US Holdings, L.P., Jay C. Graham and Anthony Bahr in order to grant certain registration rights to KKR and Carlyle. The remainder of the cash portion of the Purchase Price is to be funded by borrowings under our revolving credit facility. The foregoing summary of the Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement does not purport to be complete and is subject to, and qualified in its entirety by, the full text of the Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 4.4 to this Quarterly Report and incorporated herein by reference. Borrowing Base Redetermination On April 4, 2017, our revolving credit facility borrowing base was increased from $362.5 million to $450.0 million in connection with the semi-annual borrowing base redetermination by our lenders. In addition to our semi-annual borrowing base redetermination, we amended our revolving credit facility to add additional lenders. Eagle Ford Acquisitions In February 2017, we announced multiple transactions to acquire certain oil and natural gas producing and non-producing properties from third-parties in Burleson County, Texas for an aggregate price of approximately $15.6 million, subject to customary post-closing adjustments. One transaction closed in February 2017 and the remaining transactions closed in April 2017. Sources of Our Revenues Our revenues are derived from the sale of our oil and natural gas production, the sale of NGLs that are extracted from our natural gas during processing, and the gathering charge paid by certain third parties for their share of volumes that run through our gathering system. Production revenues are derived entirely from the continental United States. Natural gas, NGL and oil prices are inherently volatile and are influenced by many factors outside our control. In order to reduce the impact of fluctuations in natural gas and oil prices on revenues, or to protect the economics of property acquisitions, we intend to periodically enter into derivative contracts with respect to a significant portion of estimated natural gas and oil production through various transactions that fix the future prices received. Our oil, natural gas and NGL revenues do not include the effects of derivatives. Principal Components of Cost Structure Costs associated with producing oil, natural gas and NGLs are substantial. Some of these costs vary with commodity prices, some trend with the type and volume of production, and others are a function of the number of wells we own. The sections below summarize the primary operating costs we typically incur. Lease Operating Expenses. Lease operating expenses (LOE) are the costs incurred in the operation of producing properties and workover costs. Expenses for utilities, direct labor, water injection and disposal, workover rigs and workover expenses, materials and supplies comprise the most significant portion of our LOE. Certain items, such as direct labor and materials and supplies, generally remain relatively fixed across broad production volume ranges, but can fluctuate depending on activities performed during a specific period. For instance, repairs to our pumping equipment or surface facilities result in increased LOE in periods during which they are performed. Certain of our operating cost components are variable and increase or decrease as the level of produced hydrocarbons and water increases or decreases. For example, we incur power costs in connection with various production-related activities, such as pumping to recover oil and natural gas and separation and treatment of water produced in connection with our oil and natural gas production. We monitor our operations to ensure that we are incurring LOE at an acceptable level. For example, we monitor our LOE per Boe to determine if any wells or properties should be shut in, recompleted or sold. This unit rate also allows us to monitor these costs in certain fields and geographic areas to identify trends and to benchmark against other producers. Although we strive to reduce our LOE, these expenses can increase or decrease on a per unit basis as a result of various factors as we operate our properties or make acquisitions and dispositions of properties. For example, we may increase field-level expenditures to optimize our operations, incurring higher expenses in one quarter relative to another, or we 32 may acquire or dispose of properties that have different LOE per Boe. These initiatives would influence our overall operating cost and could cause fluctuations whe n comparing LOE on a period to period basis. Gathering, processing and transportation (GP&T). These are costs incurred to deliver production of our natural gas, NGLs and oil to the market. Cost levels of these expenses can vary based on the volume of natural gas, NGLs and oil produced as well as the cost of commodity processing. Gathering System Operating Expense. Gathering system operating expenses include contract labor, water disposal, dehydration equipment rentals, chemical and facilities-related expenses and facility termination fees that are incurred in the operation of our North Louisiana gathering system. Taxes other than Income Taxes. Production taxes are paid on produced oil and natural gas based on rates established by federal, state or local taxing authorities. In general, the production taxes we pay correlate to the changes in oil, natural gas and NGLs revenues. Production taxes for our Texas properties are based on the market value of our production at the wellhead. Production taxes for our Louisiana properties are based on our gross production at the wellhead. We are also subject to ad valorem taxes in the counties and parishes where our production is located. Ad valorem taxes for our Texas properties are based on the fair market value of our mineral interests for producing wells. Ad valorem taxes for our Louisiana properties are assessed based on the cost of our oil and natural gas properties. Louisiana imposes a capital based franchise tax on corporations based on capital employed within the state. Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization. Depreciation, depletion and amortization (DD&A) is the systematic expensing of the capitalized costs incurred to acquire and develop oil and natural gas properties. We use the successful efforts method of accounting for oil and natural gas activities and, as such, we capitalize all costs associated with our development and acquisition efforts and all successful exploration efforts, which are then allocated to each unit of production using the unit of production method. Our DD&A rate can fluctuate as a result of impairments, dispositions, finding and development costs and proved reserve volumes, which are all impacted by oil, natural gas and NGL prices. Impairment Expense. We review our proved properties and unproved leasehold costs for impairment whenever events and changes in circumstances indicate that a decline in the recoverability of their carrying value may have occurred. Impairment of unproved leasehold costs are recorded within exploration expense. General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative (G&A) expenses are costs incurred for overhead, including payroll and benefits for our corporate staff, costs of maintaining our headquarters, costs of managing our production and development operations, stock-based compensation, public company expenses, IT expenses, audit and other fees for professional services, including legal compliance and acquisition-related expenses. Exploration Expense. Exploration expense is geological and geophysical costs that include seismic surveying costs, costs of unsuccessful exploratory dry holes, lease abandonment and delay rentals. Exploration expense also includes rig standby and rig contract termination fees. Incentive unit compensation expense. See Note 13Incentive Units of the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements included under Item 1. Financial Statements of this Quarterly Report for additional information. Interest expense. We finance a portion of our working capital requirements and acquisitions with borrowings under our revolving credit facility and senior note issuances. As a result, we incur substantial interest expense that is affected by both fluctuations in interest rates and financing decisions. We expect to continue to incur significant interest expense as we continue to grow. Interest expense includes the amortization of debt issuance costs as well as the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs. Gain (loss) on derivative instruments. Net realized and unrealized gains on our derivatives are a function of fluctuations in the underlying commodity prices and the monthly settlement of the instruments. Given the volatility of commodity prices, it is not possible to predict future reported unrealized mark-to-market net gains or losses and the actual net gains or losses that will ultimately be realized upon settlement of the hedge positions in future years. If commodity prices at settlement are lower than the prices of the hedge positions, the hedges are expected to mitigate the otherwise negative effect on earnings of lower oil, natural gas and NGL prices. However, if commodity prices at settlement are higher than the prices of the hedge positions, the hedges are expected to dampen the otherwise positive effect on earnings of higher oil, natural gas and NGL prices and will, in this context, be viewed as having resulted in an opportunity cost. Income tax expense. We are a corporation subject to federal and certain state income taxes. Prior to our initial public offering, we were primarily organized as pass-through entities for federal income tax purposes and were not subject to federal income taxes; however, one of our predecessor subsidiaries previously elected to be taxed as a corporation and was subject to federal and state income taxes. 33 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. We evaluate the estimates and assumptions on a regular basis; however, actual results may differ from these estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the financial statements. Significant estimates with regard to these financial statements include (1) the estimate of proved oil, natural gas and NGL reserves and related present value estimates of future net cash flows therefrom; (2) depreciation, depletion and amortization expense; (3) valuation of accounts receivable; (4) accrued capital expenditures and liabilities; (5) asset retirement obligations; (6) environmental remediation costs; (7) valuation of derivative instruments; (8) contingent liabilities and (9) impairment expense. Although management believes these estimates are reasonable, changes in facts and circumstances or discovery of new information may result in revised estimates, and such revisions could be material. A discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates is included in our 2016 Form 10-K. There have been no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates. Results of Operations The results of operations of our predecessor were retrospectively recast due to common control considerations. Because WHR II, Esquisto and Acquisition Co. were under the common control of NGP, the sale and contribution of the respective ownership interests were accounted for as a combination of entities under common control, whereby the assets and liabilities sold and contributed were recorded based on historical cost. As such, the results of operations presented below for the three months ended March 31, 2016 have been derived from the combined results attributable to our predecessor and Esquisto. For periods after the completion of our initial public offering, our consolidated financial statements include our accounts and those of our subsidiaries. Factors Affecting the Comparability of the Combined Historical Financial Results The comparability of the results of operations among the periods presented is impacted by the following: the acquisition of approximately 158,000 net acres of oil and natural gas properties adjacent to our existing Eagle Ford acreage on December 19, 2016 in connection with our initial public offering (the Burleson North Acquisition) for a final purchase price of $385.9 million, net of customary post-closing adjustments; incremental G&A expenses as a result of being a publicly traded company including, but not limited to, Exchange Act reporting expenses; expenses associated with Sarbanes Oxley compliance; expenses associated with shares of our common stock being listed on a national securities exchange; incremental independent auditor fees; incremental legal fees; investor relations expenses; registrar and transfer agent fees; incremental director and officer liability insurance costs; and independent director compensation; and the February 2017 private placement of $350.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6.875% senior unsecured notes due 2025 (the 2025 Senior Notes). As a result of the factors listed above, the combined historical results of operations and period-to-period comparisons of these results and certain financial data may not be comparable or indicative of future results. 34 The table below summarizes certain of the results of operations and period-to-period compa risons for the periods indicated. For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 (In thousands, except per share data) Revenues: Oil sales $ 39,077 $ 13,253 Natural gas sales 12,145 10,206 NGL sales 2,663 945 Other income 407 723 Total operating revenues 54,292 25,127 Operating expenses: Lease operating expenses 6,928 2,760 Gathering, processing and transportation 1,700 1,891 Gathering system operating expense 19 54 Taxes other than income tax 3,899 1,472 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 26,443 22,063 General and administrative expenses 7,482 4,449 Exploration expense 1,615 7,443 Total operating expenses 48,086 40,132 Income (loss) from operations 6,206 (15,005 ) Other income (expense): Interest expense (5,571 ) (1,972 ) Debt extinguishment costs 11 (358 ) Gain (loss) on derivative instruments 31,291 3,246 Other income (expense) 15 12 Total other income (expense) 25,746 928 Income (loss) before income taxes 31,952 (14,077 ) Income tax benefit (expense) (11,700 ) (139 ) Net income (loss) 20,252 (14,216 ) Net income (loss) allocated to previous owners (2,517 ) Net income (loss) allocated to predecessor (11,699 ) Net income (loss) available to WildHorse Resources $ 20,252 $ Net income (loss) per common share: Basic and diluted $ 0.22 n/a Weighted-average common shares outstanding: Basic and diluted 93,216 n/a Oil and natural gas revenue: Natural gas $ 12,145 $ 10,206 Crude oil 39,077 13,253 Natural gas liquids 2,663 945 Total oil and natural gas revenue $ 53,885 $ 24,404 Production volumes: Natural gas (MMcf) 3,849 4,801 Oil (MBbls) 783 446 NGLs (MBbls) 160 111 Total (MBoe) 1,584 1,357 Average sales price: Natural gas (per Mcf) $ 3.16 $ 2.13 Oil (per Bbl) 49.90 29.72 NGLs (per Bbl) 16.65 8.51 Total (per Boe) $ 34.01 $ 17.98 Average production volumes: Natural gas (MMcf/d) 42.8 52.8 Oil (MBbls/d) 8.7 4.9 NGLs (MBbls/d) 1.8 1.2 Average net production (MBoe/d) 17.6 14.9 Average unit costs per Boe: Lease operating expenses $ 4.37 $ 2.03 Gathering, processing and transportation $ 1.07 $ 1.39 Taxes other than income tax $ 2.46 $ 1.08 General and administrative expenses $ 4.72 $ 3.28 Depletion, depreciation and amortization $ 16.69 $ 16.26 35 Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 Compared to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 For purposes of the following discussion, references to 2017 and 2016 refer to the three months ended March 31, 2017 and the three months ended March 31, 2016, respectively, unless otherwise indicated. Oil, natural gas and NGL revenues were $53.9 million for 2017 compared to $24.4 million for 2016, an increase of $29.5 million (approximately 120%). Production increased 0.2 MMBoe (approximately 14%) primarily due to the December 2016 Burleson North acquisition and to drilling successful wells in the Eagle Ford. The average realized sales price increased $16.03 per Boe (approximately 89%) due to a higher percentage of oil in the production mix. Oil revenues increased $15.8 million and $10.0 million due to favorable pricing and production variances, respectively. Natural gas revenues increased $3.9 million due to a favorable pricing variance offset by a $2.0 million decrease due to an unfavorable volume variance. NGL revenues increased $1.3 million and $0.4 million due to favorable price and volume variances, respectively. LOE was $6.9 million and $2.8 million for 2017 and 2016, respectively. On a per Boe basis, total LOE was $4.37 and $2.03 for 2017 and 2016, respectively. The increase in LOE on a per unit basis is largely attributable to the Burleson North acquisition which came with less efficient legacy production. Net production in 2017 consisted of 49% oil compared to 33% oil in 2016. Generally, the production of oil is more expensive than natural gas on a per Boe basis. GP&T expenses were $1.7 million and $1.9 million for 2017 and 2016, respectively. The 11% decrease in GP&T expenses was primarily attributable to lower fee gas purchasing and processing contracts associated with the Burleson North properties. On a per Boe basis, GP&T expenses were $1.07 and $1.39 for 2017 and 2016, respectively. Taxes other than income tax were $3.9 million and $1.5 million for 2017 and 2016, respectively; an increase of $2.4 million (approximately 160%). On a per Boe basis, taxes other than income tax were $2.46 and $1.08 for 2017 and 2016, respectively. The 128% increase was primarily due to higher price realizations, higher ad valorem taxes, and Louisiana franchise taxes incurred as a result of our corporate reorganization that occurred in conjunction with our initial public offering. DD&A expense for 2017 was $26.4 million compared to $22.1 million for 2016, a $4.3 million increase (approximately 20%) primarily due to an increase in production volumes related to drilling activities. Increased production volumes caused DD&A expense to increase by $3.7 million and the change in the DD&A rate between periods caused DD&A expense to increase by $0.7 million. G&A expenses were $7.5 million and $4.4 million (an increase of approximately 71%) for 2017 and 2016, respectively. The $3.1 million increase was primarily due to increased staffing for 2017 compared to 2016 and increased costs associated with being a public company. Salaries and wages increased by $2.4 million primarily due to additional staffing. Fees related to accounting and audit services increased $0.6 million between 2017 and 2016. During 2017, we recorded $0.6 million in acquisition costs and $0.5 million in stock-based compensation costs related to our long term incentive plan. These increases were offset by the previous owners $1.0 million G&A accrual payable to its members during 2016. Exploration expense was $1.6 million and $7.4 million for 2017 and 2016, respectively. The $5.8 million reduction (approximately 78%) in exploration expense was primarily due to an increase in undeveloped leasehold impairments of $0.7 million, and an increase in seismic acquisitions of $0.3 million, offset by $6.8 million in expenses associated with the early termination of a rig contract, which was laid down in March 2016 due to low commodity prices. Interest expense was $5.6 million and $2.0 million for 2017 and 2016, respectively. The $3.6 million increase (approximately 180%) was due to an increase in the average debt outstanding as a result of the February 2017 issuance of the 2025 Senior Notes. Interest is comprised of interest on our credit facilities, interest on our senior notes and amortization of debt issue costs. Amortization of debt issue costs was $0.8 million for 2017 compared to $0.1 million for 2016. The amortization of debt issue costs included a write off of $0.6 million due to the automatic reduction of our borrowing base in conjunction with the issuance of the senior notes. Debt extinguishment costs were $0.4 million in 2016 due to Esquistos retirement and termination of its revolving credit facility and second lien in January 2016 in connection with the merger of Esquisto I and Esquisto II. There were no debt extinguishment costs in 2017. Net gains on commodity derivatives of $31.3 million were recognized during 2017, of which $31.2 million was an unrealized gain and $0.1 million was a realized gain. During 2016, we recognized a $3.2 million gain on derivative instruments, of which $3.1 million was a realized gain and a $0.1 million was an unrealized gain. Income tax expense of $11.7 million was recognized in 2017 in comparison to income tax expense of a $0.1 million in 2016. The period-to-period increase was primarily a result of being a corporation subject to federal and state income tax subsequent to our initial public offering. The effective tax rate for 2017 differed from the federal statutory income tax rate 36 primarily due to the impact of state income tax. The effective tax rate for 2016 differed from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due the impact of pass-through entities and state income tax. Calculation of Adjusted EBITDAX Adjusted EBITDAX is a supplemental non-GAAP financial performance measure that is used by management and external users of our financial statements, such as industry analysts, investors, lenders and rating agencies. We include in this Quarterly Report the non-GAAP financial measure Adjusted EBITDAX and provide our calculation of Adjusted EBITDAX. Adjusted EBITDAX is not a measure of net (loss) income as determined according to GAAP. We define Adjusted EBITDAX as net income (loss): Plus: Interest expense; Income tax expense; DD&A; Exploration expense; Impairment of proved oil and natural gas properties; Loss on derivative instruments; Cash settlements received on derivative instruments; Stock-based compensation; Incentive-based compensation expenses; Acquisition related costs; Debt extinguishment costs; Loss on sale of properties; Initial public offering costs; and Other non-cash and non-routine operating items that we deem appropriate. Less: Interest income; Income tax benefit; Gain on derivative instruments; Cash settlements paid on derivative instruments; Gain on sale of properties; and Other non-cash and non-routine operating items that we deem appropriate. Management believes Adjusted EBITDAX is a useful performance measure because it allows them to more effectively evaluate our operating performance without regard to our financing methods or capital structure. We exclude the items listed above from net (loss) income in arriving at Adjusted EBITDAX because these amounts can vary substantially from company to company within our industry depending upon accounting methods and book values of assets, capital structures and the method by which the assets were acquired. Adjusted EBITDAX should not be considered as an alternative to, or more meaningful than, net (loss) income as determined in accordance with GAAP. Certain items excluded from Adjusted EBITDAX are significant components in understanding and assessing a companys financial performance, such as a companys cost of capital and tax structure, as well as the historic costs of depreciable assets, none of which are components of Adjusted EBITDAX. Our presentation of Adjusted EBITDAX should not be construed as an inference that our results will be unaffected by unusual or non-recurring items. Our computations of Adjusted EBITDAX may not be comparable to other similarly titled measures of other companies. 37 Reconciliation of Net Income to Adjusted EBITDAX The following table presents a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDAX to net (loss) income, our most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 Adjusted EBITDAX reconciliation to net (loss) income: (in thousands) Net income (loss) $ 20,252 $ (14,216 ) Interest expense, net 5,571 1,972 Income tax (benefit) expense 11,700 139 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 26,443 22,063 Exploration expense 1,615 7,443 (Gain) loss on derivative instruments (31,291 ) (3,246 ) Cash settlements received (paid) on derivative instruments (983 ) 3,373 Stock-based compensation 495 Acquisition related costs 599 (Gain) loss on sale of properties Debt extinguishment costs (11 ) 358 Initial public offering costs 182 Non-cash liability amortization (183 ) Total Adjusted EBITDAX $ 34,572 $ 17,703 Liquidity and Capital Resources Our development and acquisition activities require us to make significant operating and capital expenditures. Our primary use of capital has been the acquisition and development of oil, natural gas and NGL properties and facilities. As we pursue reserve and production growth, we plan to monitor which capital resources, including equity and debt financings, are available to us to meet our future financial obligations, planned capital expenditure activities and liquidity requirements. Historically, WHR IIs and Esquistos primary sources of liquidity were capital contributions from their former owners, borrowings under their respective revolving credit facilities and second lien loans and cash generated by their operations. Our future success in growing proved reserves and production will be highly dependent on the capital resources available to us. Based on our current oil and natural gas price expectations, we believe our cash flows provided by operating activities and availability under our revolving credit facility will provide us with the financial flexibility and wherewithal to meet our cash requirements, including normal operating needs, and pursue our currently planned 2017 development drilling activities. However, future cash flows are subject to a number of variables, including the level of our oil and natural gas production and the prices we receive for our oil and natural gas production, and significant additional capital expenditures will be required to more fully develop our properties and acquire additional properties. We cannot assure you that operations and other needed capital will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. As of March 31, 2017, we had $93.3 million of cash and cash equivalents and $362.5 million of available borrowings under our revolving credit facility. As of March 31, 2017, we had a working capital balance of $47.8 million. As of March 31, 2017, the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility was $362.5 million and we had no outstanding borrowings. The borrowing base under our revolving credit facility is subject to redetermination on at least a semi-annual basis based on an engineering report with respect to our estimated oil and natural gas reserves, which will take into account the prevailing oil and natural gas prices at such time, as adjusted for the impact of our commodity derivative contracts. Unanimous approval by the lenders is required for any increase to the borrowing base. On April 4, 2017, our revolving credit facility borrowing base was increased to $450.0 million in connection with the semi-annual borrowing redetermination by the lenders; however, we currently anticipate the borrowing base to increase to $650.0 million upon the closing of the APC/KKR acquisition. The next scheduled borrowing base redetermination is set for October 2017. A continuing decline in oil and natural gas prices could result in a reduction of our borrowing base under our revolving credit facility and could trigger mandatory principal repayments. On April 27, 2017, standby letters of credit of $1.9 million were issued to the Railroad Commission of Texas under our revolving credit facility. 38 Preferred Stock We are authorized to issue up to 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Please see Recent Developments for additional information. Capital Expenditure Budget We established a $550.0 million to $675.0 million 2017 drilling and completion capital expenditure budget. For the three months ended March 31, 2017, our drilling and completion expenditures were approximately $85.4 million primarily related to the development of our Eagle Ford properties. Debt Agreements Revolving Credit Facility. In December 2016, we, as borrower, and certain of our current and future subsidiaries, as guarantors, entered into a five-year, $1.0 billion senior secured revolving credit facility. In April 2017, our revolving credit facility borrowing base was increased from $362.5 million to $450.0 million in connection with the semi-annual borrowing redetermination by our lenders. Our revolving credit facility is reserve-based, and thus our borrowing base is primarily based on the estimated value of our oil, NGL and natural gas properties and our commodity derivative contracts as determined by our lenders in their sole discretion consistent with their normal and customary oil and gas lending practices semi-annually . In the future, we may be unable to access sufficient capital under our revolving credit facility as a result of (i) a decrease in our borrowing base due to a borrowing base redetermination or (ii) an unwillingness or inability on the part of our lenders to meet their funding obligations. We believe we were in compliance with all the financial (interest coverage ratio and current ratio) and other covenants associated with our revolving credit facility as of March 31, 2017. See Note 9Long Term Debt of the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements included under Item 1. Financial Statements of this Quarterly Report for additional information regarding our revolving credit facility. 2025 Senior Notes In February 2017, we completed a private placement of the 2025 Senior Notes. The 2025 Senior Notes, issued at 99.244% of par, mature on February 1, 2025 and are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a joint and several basis by all of our existing and certain future subsidiaries (subject to customary release provisions). The 2025 Senior Notes are governed by an indenture dated as of February 1, 2017. The 2025 Senior Notes accrue interest at 6.875% per annum and payable semi-annually in arrears on February 1 and August 1 of each year. We used the net proceeds to repay the borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facility and for general corporate purposes, including funding our 2017 capital expenditures. See Note 9Long Term Debt of the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements included under Item 1. Financial Statements of this Quarterly Report for additional information regarding the 2025 Senior Notes. Commodity Derivative Contracts Our hedging policy is designed to reduce the impact to our cash flows from commodity price volatility. For additional information regarding the volumes of our production covered by commodity derivative contracts and the average prices at which production is hedged as of March 31, 2017, see