ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K and other publicly available documents, including the documents incorporated herein and therein by reference, contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Additionally, our officers and representatives may from time to time make forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as anticipate, intend, plan, goal, seek, believe, project, estimate, expect, strategy, future, likely, may, should, will and similar references to future periods. Examples of forward-looking statements include, among others, statements we make regarding: our expectations and beliefs about the market and industry and competitive landscape; our goals, plans, and expectations regarding our operations and properties and results; our beliefs about our competitive advantages, the diversification of our product offerings, and the keys to our success; plans regarding our Stock Buyback Plan; our beliefs and expectations regarding our financial position, ability to finance operations and growth, and pay dividends; the amount of financing necessary to support operations; and our beliefs regarding the impact of the adoption of certain accounting standards on our financial statements. Forward-looking statements are neither historical facts nor assurances of future performance. Instead, they are based only on our current beliefs, expectations and assumptions regarding the future of our business, future plans and strategies, projections, anticipated events and trends, the economy and other future conditions. Because forward-looking statements relate to the future, they are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict and many of which are outside of our control. Our actual results and financial condition may differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Therefore, you should not rely on any of these forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause our actual results and financial condition to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: changing technology and evolving standards in the livestock and food industry; consumer focus on social responsibility, sustainability, food safety and assurance; competition from other providers serving the food and agriculture industry; economic and financial conditions in the livestock and food industry; international export market activities, including trade barriers to certain beef and other livestock exports; market demand for beef and other livestock products; seasonal volatility in business activity; developments and changes in laws and regulations, including increased regulation of the livestock and food industry through legislative action and revised rules and standards; strategic actions, including acquisitions and our success in integrating acquired businesses; enforceability of our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights; continued service of key senior management personnel; the impact of government regulation on our business, customers, suppliers and employees; disruptions of inefficiencies in the supply chain, including any impact of inflation and/or regulation; and 21 such other factors as discussed throughout Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors. Any forward-looking statement made by us in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is based only on information currently available to us and speaks only as of the date on which it is made. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether written or oral, that may be made from time to time, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Year Ended December 31, 2024 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2023 The following table shows information for reportable operating business segments: Year ended December 31, 2024 Year ended December 31, 2023 Verification and Certification Segment Professional Services Segment Eliminations and Other Consolidated Totals Verification and Certification Segment Professional Services Segment Eliminations and Other Consolidated Totals Assets: Goodwill $ 1,947 $ 999 $ - $ 2,946 $ 1,947 $ 999 $ - $ 2,946 All other assets, net (2,675 ) 2,705 12,330 12,360 3,501 2,707 7,132 13,340 Total assets $ (728 ) $ 3,704 $ 12,330 $ 15,306 $ 5,448 $ 3,706 $ 7,132 $ 16,286 Revenues: Verification and certification service revenue $ 20,552 $ - $ - $ 20,552 $ 19,413 $ - $ - $ 19,413 Product sales 3,803 - - 3,803 4,001 - - 4,001 Professional services - 1,391 - 1,391 - 1,721 - 1,721 Total revenues $ 24,355 $ 1,391 $ - $ 25,746 $ 23,414 $ 1,721 $ - $ 25,135 Costs of revenues: Costs of verification and certification services 11,849 - - 11,849 10,986 - - 10,986 Costs of products 2,313 - - 2,313 2,272 - - 2,272 Costs of professional services - 1,022 - 1,022 - 1,355 - 1,355 Total costs of revenues 14,162 1,022 - 15,184 13,258 1,355 - 14,613 Gross profit 10,193 369 - 10,562 10,156 366 - 10,522 Depreciation & amortization 481 166 - 647 466 168 - 634 Other operating expenses: Salaries and benefits 3,643 9 3,652 3,480 9 - 3,489 Rent and lease expense 595 46 - 641 586 82 - 668 Software and technology 792 38 - 830 742 34 - 776 Legal and professional expenses 144 7 398 549 145 9 403 557 Tradeshows and marketing 755 22 - 777 308 35 - 343 Conferences and training 91 23 - 114 149 45 - 194 Investor relations - - 128 128 - - 194 194 Other expenses 969 48 - 1,017 879 91 - 970 Total Other operating expenses 6,989 193 526 7,708 6,289 305 597 7,191 Segment operating income/(loss) $ 2,723 $ 10 $ (526 ) $ 2,207 $ 3,401 $ (107 ) $ (597 ) $ 2,697 Other items to reconcile segment operating income/(loss) to net income/(loss): Other income/(loss) 776 (4 ) - 772 374 (6 ) - 368 Income tax benefit/(expense) - - (859 ) (859 ) - - (913 ) (913 ) Net income/(loss) $ 3,499 $ 6 $ (1,385 ) $ 2,120 $ 3,775 $ (113 ) $ (1,510 ) $ 2,152 Verification and Certification Segment Verification and certification service revenues consist of fees charged for verification audits and other verification and certification related services that the Company performs for customers. Fees earned from our WFCF labeling program are also included in our verification and certification revenues as it represents a value-added extension of our source verification. Verification and certification service revenue for the year ended December 31, 2024 increased approximately $1.1 million, or 5.9% compared to 2023. Overall, the increase is due primarily to increased customer awareness and demand for our product offerings. While our verification and certification service revenue continues to improve due to new customer growth and bundling opportunities, we believe we are at a low point of a contraction phase within the cattle cycle which negatively impacts revenue tied directly to price per head of cattle. We also believe inflationary pressure on packers, producers, growers, brands, and retailers is putting downward pressure on verified and certified foods as consumers have switched to lower priced food products. 22 Our product sales are an ancillary part of our verification and certification services and represent sales of cattle identification ear tags. Product sales for the year ended December 31, 2024 decreased approximately $0.2 million or 5.0% compared to 2023. We continue to see some new customer growth, but our customers are ordering less tags due to smaller beef cow herd size. According to the USDA statistics, overall beef cow inventories have declined from 28.9 million head on January 1, 2023 to 28.2 million head on January 1, 2024 and is now estimated at less than 28 million head. We believe we are at a low point of a contraction phase within the cattle cycle which is negatively impacting revenue tied directly to price per head of cattle. Additionally, some customers are receiving free tags under the USDAs program to jumpstart efforts to enable the fastest possible response to a foreign animal disease in connection with its definitive traceability regulation, mandating the use of electronic ID tags for specific interstate movements of cattle and bison. Costs of revenues (for services and product sales) for the verification and certification segment for the year ended December 31, 2024 were approximately $14.2 million compared to approximately $13.3 million in 2023. Gross margin for the year ended December 31, 2024 decreased slightly to 41.9% compared to 43.4% in 2023. Our margins are generally impacted by various costs such as cost of products, salaries and benefits, insurance and taxes. The decline is primarily due to inflationary increases in the costs of products shipped and increases in compensation related costs due to a tight labor market impacting our margins. New customer growth helps offset the inflationary impacts on our margins, to some extent. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the verification and certification segment for the year ended December 31, 2024 increased approximately $0.7 million compared to 2023, due to more participation in tradeshows and increasing marketing activities. Professional Services Segment Professional services revenue include a wide range of professional consulting, data analysis, reporting and technology solutions that support our verification business and generate incremental revenue specific to the food and agricultural industry. Our consulting revenue stream is predominantly project based and not recurring in nature. For the year ended December 31, 2024, professional service revenue decreased approximately $0.3 million over 2023. Costs of revenues for our professional services segment for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 were approximately $1.0 and $1.4 million, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2024, gross margin improved to 26.5% from 21.3% in 2023. During 2024, because of a reduction in consulting projects, we reallocated staff to other internal departments, as needed. As our consulting revenue is predominately project based, margins are greatly impacted by the timing of the project work and the fixed and/or variable labor necessary to complete the project. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the professional services segment for the year ended December 31, 2024 decreased approximately $112,000 compared to 2023. Dividend Income from Progressive Beef, LLC On August 9, 2018, the Company purchased a ten percent membership interest in Progressive Beef, LLC (Progressive Beef) for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $1.0 million. The Company received dividend income of $400,000 and $320,000 for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, from Progressive Beef representing a distribution of their earnings. 23 Income Tax Expense For the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, we recorded income tax expense of approximately $0.9 million. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 was 28.8% and 29.7%, respectively, compared to a federal corporate rate of 21.0%. Net Income and Per Share Information As a result of the foregoing, net income for the year ended December 31, 2024 was approximately $2.1 million or $0.40 per basic and per diluted common share, compared to approximately $2.2 million or $0.39 per basic and diluted common share in 2023. Liquidity and Capital Resources At December 31, 2024, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $2.0 million compared to approximately $2.6 million at December 31, 2023. Our working capital at December 31, 2024 was approximately $2.4 million compared to approximately $3.2 million at December 31, 2023. Net cash provided by operating activities during 2024 was approximately $2.7 million compared to $2.8 million during the same period in 2023. Net cash provided by operating activities is driven by our net income and adjusted by non-cash items and changes in current assets and liabilities. Non-cash adjustments primarily include depreciation, amortization of intangible assets, fair market value gains / losses on digital assets, stock-based compensation expense, bad debt expense, and deferred taxes. The decline in cash provided by operating activities for 2024 was primarily due to a decline in the gross margins of our Verification and Certification Segment and increased spending for marketing related activities, offset by the timing of cash receipts and cash disbursements. Net cash used in investing activities during 2024 was approximately $0.2 million compared to $0.6 million during 2023. Net cash used in the 2023 period was $0.2 million for the acquisition of Blue Trace, $0.3 million for the acquisition of Upcycled Foods and $0.1 million for the purchase of equipment and internal use software development. Net cash used in financing activities during 2024 was approximately $3.2 million compared to net cash used of $3.9 million in the 2023 period. Net cash used in the 2023 period was primarily for the repurchase of common shares under the Stock Buyback Plan and a private purchase of common shares. Over the past several years, our growth has been funded primarily through cashflows from operations. We continually evaluate all funding options, including additional offerings of our securities to private, public and institutional investors and other credit facilities as they become available. The primary driver of our operating cash flow is our third-party verification solutions, specifically the gross margin generated from services provided. Therefore, we focus on the elements of those operations, including revenue growth, gross margin and long-term projects that ensure a steady stream of operating profits to enable us to meet our cash obligations. On a weekly basis, we review the performance of each of our revenue streams focusing on third-party verification solutions compared with prior periods and our operating plan. We believe that our various sources of capital, including cash flow from operating activities, focused improvements in our performance, and our ability to obtain additional financing, are adequate to finance current operations as well as the repayment of current debt obligations. We are not aware of any other event or significant trend that would negatively affect our liquidity. In the event such a trend develops, we believe that there are sufficient financing avenues available to us and from our internal cash-generating capabilities to adequately manage our ongoing business. The culmination of all our efforts has brought significant opportunities to us, including increased investor confidence in our company, as well as the potential to develop business relationships with long-term strategic partners. In keeping with our core business, we will continue to review our business model with a focus on profitability, long-term capital solutions and the potential impact of acquisitions or divestitures, if such an opportunity arises. 24 Our plan for continued growth is primarily based on diversification in our product offerings within national and international markets, as well as, potential acquisitions. We believe that there are significant growth opportunities available to us because of growing consumer awareness and demand on a national level. Internationally, a quality verification program is often the only way to overcome import or export restrictions. Debt Facility The Company has a revolving line of credit (LOC) agreement which matures April 12, 2025. The LOC provides for $75,080 in working capital. The interest rate is at the Wall Street Journal prime rate plus 1.50% and is adjusted daily. Principal and interest are payable upon demand, but if demand is not made, then annual payments of accrued interest only are due, with the principal balance due upon maturity. As of December 31, 2024 and 2023, the effective interest rate was 9.0% and 10.0%, respectively. The LOC is collateralized by all the business assets of Where Food Comes From Organic, Inc. (WFCFO), a subsidiary of WFCF. As of December 31, 2024 and 2023, there were no amounts outstanding under this LOC. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2024, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements of any type. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Below is a discussion of the accounting policies and related estimates that we believe are the most critical to understanding our consolidated financial statements, financial condition and results of operations and which require complex management judgments, uncertainties and/or estimates. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during a reporting period; however, actual results could differ from those estimates. Management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of the critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Information regarding our other accounting policies is included in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements set forth in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Revenue Recognition Verification and Certification Segment We offer a range of products and services to maintain identification, traceability, and verification systems. We conduct both on-site and desk audits to verify that claims being made about livestock, food, other high-value specialty crops and agricultural products are accurate. We generate revenue primarily from the sale of our verification solutions, consulting services and hardware sales. We sell our products and services directly to customers at various levels in the livestock and agricultural supply chains. Verification and certification service revenue primarily consists of fees charged for verification audits and other verification services that the Company performs for customers. We recognize revenue utilizing an input method to measure over-time progress of each verification audit based on the number of audit days performed. 25 For certain of our third-party crop and other processed product audits, we assess a fixed fee for the annual certification period. We recognize revenue utilizing an input method to measure progress toward satisfaction of the annual assessment based on the percentage of activities/phases or input reviews completed under the annual assessment. Product sales are primarily generated from the sale of cattle identification ear tags. Revenue for product sales is recognized upon delivery of the goods to customer, at which point title, custody and risk of loss transfer to the customer. We had deferred revenue of approximately $1.7 million and $1.4 million at December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, primarily related to the annual certification period for certain of our third-party crop and other processed product audits. The balance of these contract liabilities at the beginning of the period is expected to be recognized as revenue during 2025. Professional Services Segment Professional services fees are derived from a standard rate card by employee level, and we invoice for consulting, data analysis and other reporting services, monthly, on a time-incurred basis. We recognize revenue over time utilizing the practical expedient that allows us to recognize revenue in the amount to which we have a right to invoice. Other Generally, we do not provide right of return or warranty on product sales or services performed. In connection with the provision of on-site audits, reimbursable expenses are incurred and billed to customers, and such amounts are recognized on a gross basis as both revenue and cost of revenue. Any amounts collected on behalf of a third-party and remitted in full to that third-party are excluded from the transaction price and, thus, revenue. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Significant portions of our verification and certification service revenue is typically realized during late May through early October when the calf marketings and the growing seasons are at their peak. Although this seasonality does not impact our policies for revenue recognition, it does generally impact our results of operations by potentially causing an increase in our profit margins during May through October and decreased margins during November through April. Additionally, the cattle industry is cyclical by nature based on factors impacting current and future supplies such as drought-induced feedlot placements, higher cow and heifer slaughter, and lower auction receipts. The production lags inherent to this industry lead to long-lasting impacts of production decisions. For example, increased liquidation implies tighter supplies for next year. Similarly, times of herd expansion are typically a multi-year period. Historically, these cycles typically lasted approximately 10 years. The beginning of 2024 marks the tenth year of the current cycle that began in 2014. We are currently in the contraction phase of the cycle after peaking in 2018-2019. How long we will continue to contract will be directly impacted by drought and pasture conditions. Stock-Based Compensation The Company recognizes all equity-based compensation as stock-based compensation expense based on the fair value of the compensation measured at the grant date. For stock options, fair value is calculated using the Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model. For stock awards, fair value is the closing stock price for the Companys common stock on the grant date. The expense is recognized over the vesting period of the grant. 26 Calculating stock-based compensation expense using the Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the expected term of the stock-based awards, stock price volatility, and the pre-vesting option forfeiture rate. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including the types of awards, employee classification and historical experience. Actual forfeitures may differ substantially from our current estimate. Under this pricing model, which incorporates ranges of assumptions for inputs, our assumptions are as follows: Dividend yield is based on our historical policy of not paying cash dividends. Expected volatility assumptions were derived from our actual volatilities. The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the date of grant with maturity dates approximately equal to the expected term at the grant date. The expected term of options represents the period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding giving consideration to vesting schedules, based on historical exercise patterns, which we believe are representative of future behavior. There is a risk that our estimates of the fair values may differ from the actual values. It is possible that employee stock options may expire worthless or otherwise result in zero intrinsic value as compared to the fair values originally estimated on the grant date and reported in our financial statements. Alternatively, value may be realized from these instruments that are significantly in excess of the fair values originally estimated on the grant date and reported in our financial statements. The fair value determined using the Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model may not be indicative of the fair value observed in a willing buyer / willing seller market transaction. Estimates of share-based compensation expense are highly subjective as to value and have an impact on our financial statements, but these expenses will never result in the payment of cash by us. For this reason, and because we do not view share-based compensation as being related to our operational performance, we exclude estimated share-based compensation expense when internally evaluating our performance. Income Taxes We record income taxes under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect our estimation of the future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for book and tax purposes. We determine deferred income taxes based on the differences in accounting methods and timing between financial statement and income tax reporting. Accordingly, we determine the deferred tax asset or liability for each temporary difference based on the enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when we realize the underlying items of income and expense. We consider the probability of future taxable income and our historical profitability, among other factors, in assessing the amount of the valuation allowance. Significant judgment is involved in this determination, including projections of future taxable income. Our liability for unrecognized tax benefits contains uncertainties because management is required to make assumptions and to apply judgment to estimate the exposures associated with our various filing positions. Our effective income tax rate is also affected by changes in tax law, our level of earnings and the results of tax audits. As of December 31, 2024, we concluded that a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets was not considered necessary. As of December 31, 2024 and 2023, the Company did not have an unrecognized tax liability. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the tax provision as recorded. 27 Goodwill We perform an impairment test of our goodwill annually or when events and circumstances indicate goodwill might be impaired. Impairment testing of goodwill is required at the reporting unit level and involves a two-step process. However, we may first assess the qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform the two-step quantitative goodwill impairment test. The first step of the impairment test involves comparing the estimated fair value of our reporting units with the reporting units carrying amount, including goodwill. If we determine that the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, we perform a second step to compare the carrying amount of goodwill to the implied fair value of that goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as utilized to recognize goodwill in a business combination. If the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss would be recognized in an amount equal to the excess. We evaluate our reporting units on an annual basis or when events or circumstances indicate our reporting units might change. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including performing the qualitative assessment, the identification of reporting units, assigning assets and liabilities to reporting units, assigning goodwill to reporting units, and determining the fair value of each reporting unit. Estimating the fair value of an individual reporting unit requires us to make assumptions and estimates regarding our future plans, industry and economic conditions and our actual results and conditions may differ over time. Examples of events or circumstances that could have a negative effect on the estimated fair value of our reporting units include (i) changes in technology or customer demands that were not anticipated; (ii) competition or regulatory developments in the industry that may adversely affect profitability; (iii) a prolonged weakness in general economic conditions; (iv) a sustained decrease in share price; (v) volatility in the equity and debt markets which could result in a higher discount rate; and (vi) the inability to execute our strategy to grow our growth products. These types of analyses contain uncertainties because they require management to make assumptions and to apply judgment to estimate industry economic factors and the profitability of future business strategies. We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to evaluate impairment of goodwill during the past two years. As of December 31, 2024 and 2023, we had approximately $2.9 million of goodwill. During the fourth quarter of 2024 and 2023, we performed a qualitative assessment on our WFCF, WFCFO, Validus and SureHarvest units and concluded that the fair value of the reporting units exceeded their carrying value. Long-Lived Assets Our definite-lived intangible assets consist of customer relationships, accreditations, tradenames / trademarks and patents related to our acquisitions, recorded at estimated fair value. It also consists of our trademark rights and the related costs incurred to obtain the trademark rights recorded at cost. These definite-lived assets are subject to amortization using the straight-line method over the estimated useful-lives of the respective assets, which range from two to fifteen years. Estimates of useful-lives are based on the nature of the underlying assets as well as our experience with similar assets and intended use. We periodically review estimated useful-lives for reasonableness. 28 We evaluate recoverability of long-lived assets, including property and equipment and definite-lived intangible assets, when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Assumptions and estimates about future values and remaining useful-lives can be affected by a variety of factors, including external factors such as consumer spending habits and general economic trends, and internal factors such as changes in our business strategy and our internal forecasts. We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology or useful-lives we use to account for long-lived assets during the past two years. Pursuant to Accounting Standards Update 2016-02 (ASU) Topic 842, we determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception. Operating leases are included in the right-of-use (ROU) assets, current operating lease liabilities and noncurrent operating lease liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet. Finance leases are included in property and equipment, current finance lease obligations and long-term finance lease obligations in our consolidated balance sheet. ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at the lease commencement date based on the estimated present value of lease payments over the lease term. Indefinite-Lived Assets Our non-amortizable intangible assets which have an indefinite life relate to the trademarks/tradenames and digital assets. Trademarks/tradenames were acquired in the Validus acquisition. Pursuant to Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 350, if an intangible asset is determined to have an indefinite useful life, it shall not be amortized until its useful life is determined to no longer be indefinite. Accordingly, we evaluate the remaining useful life of an intangible asset that is not being amortized each reporting period to determine whether events or circumstances continue to support an indefinite useful life. In addition, an intangible asset that is not subject to amortization shall be tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. Entities testing an indefinite-lived intangible asset for impairment have the option of performing a qualitative assessment before calculating the fair value of the asset. If entities determine, on the basis of qualitative factors, that the likelihood of the indefinite-lived intangible asset being impaired is below a more-likely-than-not threshold (i.e., a likelihood of more than 50 percent), the entity would not need to calculate the fair value of the asset. During 2024, management reviewed our tradenames / trademarks (not subject to amortization) and determined the tradename no longer had an infinite life and as such, needed to be reclassified to tradename / trademarks subject to amortization and amortized over the remaining useful life. Digital Assets Digital assets or cryptocurrency are included in non-current assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets due to the Companys investment in digital assets. The Company does not accept or receive digital assets for transactional purposes. We have ownership of and control over our digital assets and use a third-party custodial service to secure it. 29 Effective January 1, 2024, the Company implemented Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2023-08 Intangibles Goodwill and Other-Crypto Assets (Subtopic 350-60): Accounting for and Disclosure of Crypto Assets. Under ASU 2023-08, the Company is required to measure the digital assets at fair value with changes recognized in net income each reporting period. The amendments in this ASU require a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. The digital assets are separately reported from other intangible assets on the balance sheet and changes from remeasurement of the digital assets are separately reported on the statement of operations. Prior to the adoption of ASU 2023-08, digital assets or cryptocurrency were held as indefinite-lived intangible assets in accordance with ASC Topic 350 Intangibles-Goodwill and Other. The digital assets were initially recorded at cost and subsequently remeasured on the consolidated balance sheet at cost, net of any impairment losses incurred since acquisition as of December 31, 2023. We determined the fair value of our digital assets on a quarterly basis in accordance with ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurement, based on quoted prices on the active exchange(s) that we have determined is the principal market for such assets (Level 1 inputs). If the current carrying value of a digital asset significantly exceeds the fair value so determined, a permanent impairment loss has occurred with respect to the digital assets in the amount equal to the difference between their carrying values and the price determined. Business Combinations A component of our growth strategy has been to acquire businesses that complement our existing operations. We account for business combinations in accordance with the guidance for business combinations and related literature. Accordingly, we allocate the purchase price of acquired companies to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their estimated fair values at the date of purchase. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. In determining the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination, we use various recognized valuation methods, including present value modeling and referenced market values (where available). Further, we make assumptions within certain valuation techniques, including discount rates and the timing of future cash flows. Valuations are performed by management or independent valuation specialists under managements supervision, where appropriate. We believe that the estimated fair values assigned to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed are based on reasonable assumptions that marketplace participants would use. However, such assumptions are inherently uncertain and actual results could differ from those estimates. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements set forth in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a detailed description of recent accounting pronouncements.