ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations of WM Technology, Inc. should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Form 10-K, as well as the discussion under Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to historical financial information, the following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results and timing of selected events may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including those discussed under Item 1A. Risk Factors and elsewhere herein. For further discussion of our products and services, growth strategy, challenges in our end-markets and competitive strengths, see Item 1. Business. Unless stated otherwise, the comparisons presented in this discussion and analysis refer to the year-over-year comparison of changes in our financial condition and results of operations as of and for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022. Fiscal Year 2023 Financial Highlights Net Revenue was $188.0 million as compared to $215.5 million in the prior year. Average monthly paying clients was 5,419, as compared to 5,457 in the prior year. Average monthly revenue per paying client was $2,891, as compared to $3,291 in the prior year. Net loss was $15.7 million as compared to $82.7 million in the prior year. Adjusted EBITDA was $36.9 million. 50 Table of Contents Cash totaled $34.4 million as of December 31, 2023, with no long-term debt. For further information about how we calculate EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA as well as limitations of its use and a reconciliation of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA to net income (loss), see Net Income (Loss) to EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA in Non-GAAP Financial Measurements below. Overview Founded in 2008, and headquartered in Irvine, California, WM Technology, Inc. operates a leading online cannabis marketplace for consumers together with a comprehensive set of eCommerce and compliance software solutions for cannabis businesses, which are sold to both storefront locations and delivery operators (retailers) and brands in the legalized cannabis markets in states and territories of the United States. Our comprehensive business-to-consumer and business-to-business suite of products afford cannabis retailers and brands of all sizes integrated tools to compliantly run their businesses and to reach, convert, and retain consumers. Our business primarily consists of our commerce-driven marketplace (Weedmaps), and our fully integrated suite of end-to-end Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) solutions software offering (Weedmaps for Business). The Weedmaps marketplace is a premier destination for cannabis consumers to discover and browse information regarding cannabis and cannabis products with 5,419 average monthly paying business clients during the year ended December 31, 2023, on the supply-side of our marketplace. These paying clients include retailers, brands and other client types (such as doctors). Further, these clients, who can choose to purchase multiple listings solutions for each business, had purchased over 7,800 listing pages as of December 31, 2023. We sell our Weedmaps for Business suite in the United States and have a limited number of non-monetized listings in several other countries including Austria, Canada, Germany, the Netherlands, Spain and Switzerland. We operate in the United States, Canada and other foreign jurisdictions where medical and/or adult cannabis use is legal under state or national law. As of December 31, 2023, we actively operated in over 35 U.S. states and territories that have adult-use and/or medical-use regulations in place. Substantially all of our revenue was generated in the United States during the periods presented. We define actively operated markets as those U.S. states or territories with greater than $1,000 monthly revenue. Our mission is to power a transparent and inclusive global cannabis economy. Our technology addresses the challenges facing both consumers seeking to understand cannabis products and businesses who serve cannabis users in a legally compliant fashion. Since our founding in 2008, Weedmaps has become a premier destination for cannabis consumers to discover and browse information regarding cannabis and cannabis products, permitting product discovery and order-ahead for pickup or delivery by participating retailers. Weedmaps for Business is a set of eCommerce-enablement tools designed to help retailers and brands get the best out of the Weedmaps consumer experience, create labor efficiencies and manage compliance needs. As we continue to expand the presence and increase the number of consumers on the Weedmaps marketplace and broaden our offerings, we generate more value for our business clients. As we continue to expand the presence and increase the number of cannabis businesses listed on weedmaps.com, we become a more compelling marketplace for consumers. To capitalize on the growth opportunities of our two-sided marketplace and solutions, we plan to continue making investments in raising brand awareness, increasing penetration within existing markets and expanding to new markets, as well as continuing to develop and monetize new solutions to extend the functionality of our platform. These investments serve to deepen the consumer experience with our platform and continue to provide a high level of support to our business clients. In December 31, 2023, we completed the sunset of WM AdSuite, WM CRM and WM Screens product offerings as we continue to focus our efforts on other Weedmaps for Business products that support the Weedmaps marketplace and improve the eCommerce experience for our clients and users. Key Operating and Financial Metrics We monitor the following key financial and operational metrics to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, formulate business plans and make strategic decisions. The following table summarizes our financial performance for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to our financial performance for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021. For a detailed discussion of our results of operations, see Results of Operations below. 51 Table of Contents Years Ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 (dollars in thousands, except for revenue per paying client) Net revenues $ 187,993 $ 215,531 $ 193,146 Net income (loss) $ (15,727) $ (82,651) $ 152,218 EBITDA(1) $ (3,534) $ 107,924 $ 156,042 Adjusted EBITDA(1) $ 36,907 $ (9,633) $ 31,698 Average monthly revenue per paying client(2) $ 2,891 $ 3,291 $ 3,711 Average monthly paying clients(3) 5,419 5,457 4,337 ___________________________ (1)For further information about how we calculate EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA as well as limitations of its use and a reconciliation of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA to net income (loss), see Net Income (Loss) to EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA in Non-GAAP Financial Measurements below. (2)Average monthly revenue per paying client is defined as the average monthly revenue for any particular period divided by the average monthly paying clients in the same respective period. (3)Average monthly paying clients are defined as the average of the number of paying clients billed in a month across a particular period (and for which services were provided). Average Monthly Revenue Per Paying Client Average monthly revenue per paying client measures how much clients, for the period of measurement, are willing to pay us for our subscription and additional offerings and the efficiency of the bid-auction process for our featured listings placements. We calculate this metric by dividing the average monthly revenue for any particular period by the average monthly number of paying clients in the same respective period. The decline in our average monthly revenue per paying client for the years ended December 31, 2023 was due to spend declines in established markets. We expected these pressures given the continued liquidity challenges that clients are facing. Average Monthly Paying Clients We define average monthly paying clients as the monthly average of clients billed each month over a particular period (and for which services were provided). Our paying clients include both individual cannabis businesses as well as retail websites or businesses within a larger organization that have independent relationships with us, many of whom are owned by holding companies where decision-making is decentralized such that purchasing decisions are made, and relationships with us are located, at a lower organizational level. In addition, any client may choose to purchase multiple listing solutions for each of their retail websites or businesses. Average monthly paying clients for the year ended December 31, 2023 decreased by approximately 1% to 5,419 average monthly paying clients from 5,457 average monthly paying clients in the same period in 2022. The decrease in average monthly paying clients in 2023 as compared to the same period in 2022 was primarily due to elevated churn as a result of the cannabis industry facing price deflation in 2023. Factors Affecting Our Performance Growth of Our Two-Sided Weedmaps Marketplace We have historically grown through and intend to focus on continuing to grow through the expansion of our two-sided marketplace, which occurs through growth of the number and type of businesses and consumers that we attract to our platform. We believe that expansion of the number and types of cannabis businesses that choose to list on our platform will continue to make our platform more compelling for consumers and drive traffic and consumer engagement, which in turn will make our platform more valuable to cannabis businesses. Growth and Retention of Our Paying Clients Our revenue grows primarily through acquiring and retaining paying clients and increasing the revenue per paying client over time. We have a history of attracting new paying clients and increasing their annual spend with us over time, primarily due to the value they receive once they are onboarded and able to take advantage of the benefits of participating in our two-sided marketplace and leveraging our software solutions. Prices of certain commodity products, including gas prices, are historically volatile and subject to fluctuations arising from changes in domestic and international supply and demand, labor costs, competition, market speculation, government regulations, trade restrictions and tariffs, inflation, the military conflict between Russia and Ukraine and the recent state of war 52 Table of Contents between Israel and Hamas and the related risk of a larger regional conflict. Increasing prices in the component materials for the goods or services of our clients may impact their ability to maintain or increase their spend with us and their ability to pay their invoices on time. Rapid and significant changes in commodity prices may negatively affect our revenue if our clients are unable to mitigate inflationary increases through various customer pricing actions and cost reduction initiatives. This could also negatively impact our net dollar retention and our collections on accounts receivable. Regulation and Maturation of Cannabis Markets We believe that we will have significant opportunities for greater growth as more jurisdictions legalize cannabis for medical and/or adult-use and the regulatory environment continues to develop. Currently, thirty-nine states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam and the Northern Mariana have legalized some form of cannabis use for certain medical purposes. Twenty-four of those states, the District of Columbia, Guam and Northern Mariana have legalized cannabis for adults for non-medical purposes as well (sometimes referred to as adult or recreational use). Eight additional states have legalized forms of low-potency cannabis, for select medical conditions. Only three states continue to prohibit cannabis entirely. We intend to explore new expansion opportunities as additional jurisdictions legalize cannabis for medical or adult use and leverage our business model informed by our 15-year operating history to enter new markets. We also have a significant opportunity to monetize transactions originating from users engaging with a retailer on the Weedmaps marketplace or tracked via one of our Weedmaps for Business solutions. Given U.S. federal prohibitions on plant-touching businesses and our current policy not to participate in the chain of commerce associated with the sale of cannabis products, we do not charge take-rates or payment fees for transactions originating from users who engage with a retailer on the Weedmaps platform or tracked via one of our Weedmaps for Business solutions. A change in U.S. federal regulations could result in our ability to engage in such monetization efforts without adverse consequences to our business. A change in U.S. federal regulations could also increase access to capital and remove limitations of Section 280E of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, thus allowing deduction or credit for certain expenses of cannabis business to increase our cash flow and liquidity, as well as those of many industry participants. Our long-term growth depends on our ability to successfully capitalize on new and existing cannabis markets. Each market must reach a critical mass of both cannabis businesses and consumers for listing subscriptions, advertising placements and other solutions to have meaningful appeal to potential clients. As regulated markets mature and as we incur expenses to attract paying clients and convert non-paying clients to paying clients, we may generate losses in new markets for an extended period. Furthermore, we compete with cannabis-focused and general two-sided marketplaces, internet search engines and various other newspaper, television and media companies and other software providers. We expect competition to intensify in the future as the regulatory regime for cannabis becomes more settled and the legal market for cannabis becomes more accepted, which may encourage new participants to enter the market, including established companies with substantially greater financial, technical and other resources than existing market participants. Our current and future competitors may also enjoy other competitive advantages, such as greater name recognition, more offerings and larger marketing budgets. Brand Recognition and Reputation We believe that maintaining and enhancing our brand identity and our reputation is critical to maintaining and growing our relationships with clients and consumers and to our ability to attract new clients and consumers. Historically, a substantial majority of our marketing spending was on out-of-home advertising on billboards, buses and other non-digital outlets. Starting in 2019, consistent with the overall shift in perceptions regarding cannabis, a number of demand-side digital advertising platforms allowed us to advertise online. We also invested in growing our internal digital performance advertising team. We believe there is an opportunity to improve market efficiency through digital channels and expect to shift our marketing spending accordingly. Over the longer term, we expect to shift and accelerate our marketing spend to additional online and traditional channels, such as broadcast television or radio, as they become available to us. Further, we have begun reinvesting in our own on-the-ground and field marketing presence and are increasing the types and cadence of client events. These events and in-store activations allow Weedmaps to engage with consumers at the point of purchase and also afford Weedmaps with the opportunity to engage directly with our clients, understand their needs and challenges and foster goodwill. Negative publicity, whether or not justified, relating to events or activities attributed to us, our employees, clients or others associated with any of these parties, may tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brand. Given our high visibility and relatively long operating history compared to many of our competitors, we may be more susceptible to the risk of negative publicity. Damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity may reduce demand for our platform and have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Moreover, any attempts to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand may be costly and time consuming, and such efforts may not ultimately be successful. We also believe that the importance of our brand recognition and reputation will continue to increase as competition in our market continues to develop. If our brand promotion activities are not successful, our operating results and growth may be adversely impacted. 53 Table of Contents Investments in Growth We intend to continue to make focused organic and inorganic investments to grow our revenue and scale operations to support that growth. Given our long operating history in the United States and the strength of our network, often businesses will initially list on our platform without targeted sales or marketing efforts by us. However, we plan to accelerate our investments in marketing to maintain and increase our brand awareness through both online and offline channels. We also plan to invest in expanding our business listings thereby enhancing our client and consumer experience, and improving the depth and quality of information provided on our platform. We also intend to continue to invest in several areas to continue enhancing the functionality of our Weedmaps for Business offering. We expect significant near-term investments to enhance our data assets and evolve our current listings and software offerings to our brand clients, among other areas. We anticipate undertaking such investments in order to be positioned to capitalize on the rapidly expanding cannabis market. As operating expenses and capital expenditures fluctuate over time, we may accordingly experience short-term, negative impacts to our operating results and cash flows. Components of Our Results of Operations Revenues Our revenues are derived primarily from monthly subscriptions to Weedmaps for Business, featured and deal listings and other WM Ad solutions. Our Weedmaps for Business subscriptions generally have one-month terms that automatically renew unless notice of cancellation is provided in advance. Featured and deal listings and other WM Ad solutions are offered as add-on products to the Weedmaps for Business subscriptions. Featured and deal listings provide customers with premium placement ad solutions and discount and promotion pricing tools. Other WM Ad solutions include banner ads and promotion tiles on our marketplace ad as well as other advertising products on and off the Weedmaps marketplace. We have a fixed inventory of featured listing and display advertising in each market, and price is generally determined through a competitive auction process that reflects local market demand. Revenues for these arrangements are recognized over-time, generally during a month-to-month subscription period as the products are provided. We rarely need to allocate the transaction price to separate performance obligations. In the rare case that allocation of the transaction price is needed, we recognize revenue in proportion to the standalone selling prices of the underlying services at contract inception. Costs and Expenses Our cost structure has two components: cost of revenues and operating expenses. Our operating expenses include costs related to selling and marketing, product development, general and administrative functions and depreciation and amortization. Certain of our costs and expenses, including those associated with the operation of our technical infrastructure as well as components of our operating expenses, are generally less variable in nature and may not correlate to changes in revenue. Cost of Revenues (Exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization) Cost of revenues excludes depreciation and amortization expense and primarily consists of web hosting, internet service and credit card processing costs. Cost of revenues is primarily driven by fluctuations in revenue leading to increases or decreases in credit card processing and web hosting cost. We expect our cost of revenue to continue to increase on an absolute basis and remain relatively flat as a percentage of revenue as we scale our business and inventory costs related to multi-media offerings. Selling and Marketing Expenses Selling and marketing expenses consist of salaries and benefits, stock-based compensation expense, travel expense and incentive compensation for our sales and marketing employees. In addition, sales and marketing expenses include customer acquisition marketing, events cost and branding and advertising costs. Over the longer term, we expect sales and marketing expense to increase in a manner consistent with revenue growth, however, we may experience fluctuations in some periods as we enter and develop new markets or have large one-time marketing projects. Product Development Expenses Product development costs consist of salaries and benefits and stock-based compensation expense for employees, including engineering and technical teams who are responsible for building new products, as well as maintaining and improving existing products. Product development costs that do not meet the criteria for capitalization are expensed as incurred. Amortization expense related to capitalized software development cost is included in depreciation, amortization and asset impairment expense in the consolidated statements of operations. We believe that continued investment in our platform is important for our growth and expect our product development expenses will increase in a manner consistent with revenue growth as our operations grow. 54 Table of Contents General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses consist primarily of payroll, benefit costs and stock-based compensation expense for our employees involved in general corporate functions including our senior leadership team as well as costs associated with the use by these functions of software and facilities and equipment, such as rent, insurance and other occupancy expenses. General and administrative expenses also include provision for doubtful accounts and professional and outside services related to legal and other consulting services. General and administrative expenses are primarily driven by headcount required to support our business and meet our obligations as a public company. We expect general and administrative expenses to decline as percentage of revenue as we scale our business and leverage investments in these areas. Depreciation and Amortization Expenses Depreciation and amortization expenses primarily consist of depreciation on computer equipment, furniture and fixtures, leasehold improvements, capitalized software development costs and amortization of intangibles. We expect depreciation and amortization expenses to increase on an absolute basis for the foreseeable future as we scale our business. Asset Impairment Charges Asset impairment charges primarily consist of impairment of ROU assets related to our operating leases, impairment of intangible assets, impairment of equity securities and impairment of property and equipment. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consists primarily of discharge of holdback obligation related to prior acquisition, changes in fair value of warrant liability, change in TRA liability, transaction related bonus, legal settlements and other legal costs, reduction in force, and interest expense. Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes We account for income taxes pursuant to the asset and liability method which requires the recognition of deferred income tax assets and liabilities related to the expected future tax consequences arising from temporary differences between the carrying amounts and tax bases of assets and liabilities based on enacted statutory tax rates applicable to the periods in which the temporary differences are expected to reverse. Any effects of changes in income tax rates or laws are included in income tax expense in the period of enactment. A valuation allowance is recognized if we determine it is more-likely-than-not that all or a portion of a deferred tax asset will not be recognized. In making such determination, we consider all available evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies and recent and expected future results of operation. See Note 16, Income Taxes, to our consolidated financial statements included herein. 55 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth our results of operations for the periods presented and expresses the relationship of certain line items as a percentage of net revenues for those periods. The period-to-period comparison of financial results is not necessarily indicative of future results. Years Ended December 31, 2023 2022 Amount % Revenue Amount % Revenue (in thousands, except percentages) Net revenues $ 187,993 100.0 % $ 215,531 100.0 % Costs and expenses: Cost of revenues (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) 12,527 6.7 % 15,407 7.1 % Sales and marketing 47,073 25.0 % 82,624 38.3 % Product development 36,001 19.2 % 50,520 23.4 % General and administrative 74,313 39.5 % 120,787 56.0 % Depreciation and amortization 12,133 6.5 % 11,498 5.3 % Asset impairment charges 24,403 13.0 % 4,317 2.0 % Total costs and expenses 206,450 109.8 % 285,153 132.3 % Operating loss (18,457) (9.8) % (69,622) (32.3) % Other income (expense), net: Change in fair value of warrant liability 1,505 0.8 % 25,370 11.8 % Change in tax receivable agreement liability (1,256) (0.7) % 142,352 66.0 % Other income (expense) 2,574 1.4 % (1,674) (0.8) % Income (loss) before income taxes (15,634) (8.3) % 96,426 44.7 % Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 93 % 179,077 83.1 % Net loss (15,727) (8.4) % (82,651) (38.3) % Net (loss) income attributable to noncontrolling interests (5,829) (3.1) % 33,338 15.5 % Net loss attributable to WM Technology, Inc. $ (9,898) (5.3) % $ (115,989) (53.8) % Comparison of Years Ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 Net Revenues The following table summarizes our disaggregated net revenue information: Years Ended December 31, Change 2023 2022 ($) (%) (dollars in thousands) Net Revenues $ 187,993 $ 215,531 $ (27,538) (13) % Net revenues decreased by $27.5 million, or 13%, for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the same period in 2022. The decrease was primarily driven by a decrease in average monthly revenue per paying client primarily as a result of a decrease in revenue from our Featured Listings and WM Deal products of $23.1 million, Weedmaps for Business of $3.9 million and other WM Ad solutions of $0.5 million. For the year ended December 31, 2023, featured and deal listings, Weedmaps for Business and other ad solutions represented 67%, 25% and 8% of our total net revenues, respectively. Costs and Expenses During the year ended December 31, 2022, we approved plans to reduce our workforce as part of certain cost-reduction initiatives intended to reduce operating expenses and sharpen our focus on key growth priorities. The decreases in our sales and marketing expenses, product development expenses and general and administrative expenses are primarily driven by the reduction in employee headcount. As of December 31, 2023, we had 440 full-time employees and 19 temporary employees, 56 Table of Contents including 196 in engineering, product and design, 181 in sales and marketing and 82 in general and administrative. As of December 31, 2022, we had 580 full-time employees and 3 temporary employees, including 224 in engineering, product and design, 245 in sales and marketing and 114 in general and administrative. Of these employees, 573 are located in the United States and 10 are located in Canada. The following table shows our total costs and expenses: Years Ended December 31, Change 2023 2022 ($) (%) (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenues $ 12,527 $ 15,407 $ (2,880) (19) % Sales and marketing 47,073 82,624 (35,551) (43) % Product development 36,001 50,520 (14,519) (29) % General and administrative 74,313 120,787 (46,474) (38) % Depreciation and amortization 12,133 11,498 635 6 % Asset impairment charges 24,403 4,317 20,086 465 % Total costs and expenses $ 206,450 $ 285,153 $ (78,703) (28) % Cost of Revenues The decrease in cost of revenues in 2023 compared with 2022 was primarily related to a decrease of $3.7 million in cost of revenues associated with outside services expense for WM CRM, WM Screens and WM AdSuite which were sunset in December 2023, partially offset by an increase of $0.9 million for server costs. Sales and Marketing Expenses The decrease in sales and marketing expenses was primarily related to a decrease in personnel-related costs of $27.0 million, a decrease in outside service of $5.7 million, a decrease in web advertising expense of $2.3 million, a decrease in travel expense of $0.4 million, a decrease in print and products expense of $0.4 million and a decrease in events expense of $0.4 million, partially offset by an increase in branding and advertising expense of $0.4 million. The decrease in personnel-related costs of $27.0 million were primarily due to decreased headcount of approximately 26% in 2023 compared to prior year and includes decrease in salaries and wages of $12.1 million, bonus expense of $5.5 million, stock-based compensation expense of $3.7 million and payroll tax expense of $0.7 million and a decrease in transaction related bonuses of $4.9 million. Product Development Expenses The decrease in product development expenses was primarily due to decreases in personnel-related costs of $11.7 million, outside services expense of $2.6 million and travel expense of $0.1 million. The decrease in personnel-related costs was primarily due to a decline in headcount of approximately 13% in 2023 compared to prior year and includes decreases in salaries and wages of $6.4 million, bonus expense of $3.8 million, stock-based compensation expense of $1.1 million and payroll tax expense of $0.4 million. General and Administrative Expenses The decrease in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to decreases in provision for credit losses of $15.7 million, severance expense of $5.8 million, stock-based compensation expense of $5.3 million, salaries and wages of $5.2 million, insurance costs of $5.1 million, professional fees of $3.1 million, software expense of $1.9 million, employee benefits expense of $1.9 million, facilities expense of $0.6 million, bonus expense of $0.6 million, outside service expense of $0.6 million, donation expense of $0.5 million and payroll tax expense of $0.5 million. The decrease in compensation expense were due to decreased headcount of approximately 28% in 2023 compared to the prior year. Depreciation and Amortization The increase in depreciation and amortization expense was primarily due to an increase in capitalized software amortization of $2.2 million, partially offset by a decrease in depreciation expense related to other assets of $1.6 million. Asset Impairment Charges The increase in asset impairment charges was primarily due to $10.9 million in impairment of operating lease ROU asset and $1.3 million in impairment of leasehold improvement associated with our second headquarter space in Los Angeles, California, $8.7 million in impairment of intangible assets, capitalized software and property and equipment associated with the sunset of certain product offerings in December 2023 and $3.5 million related to the impairment of an equity investment.See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 4, Leases, to our consolidated financial statements for further discuss. 57 Table of Contents Other Income (Expense), net Years Ended December 31, Change 2023 2022 ($) (%) (dollars in thousands) Change in fair value of warrant liability $ 1,505 $ 25,370 $ (23,865) (94) % Change in tax receivable agreement liability (1,256) 142,352 (143,608) (101) % Other income (expense) 2,574 (1,674) 4,248 (254) % Other income (expense), net $ 2,823 $ 166,048 $ (163,225) (98) % Other income (expense), net decreased by $163.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the same period in 2022. The decrease was primarily due to changes in TRA liability of $143.6 million and comparatively favorable changes in fair value of warrant liability of $23.9 million partially offset by an increase of $4.2 million related to a non-cash gain of $3.7 million associated with the discharge of a holdback obligation related to a prior acquisition and a decrease in political contribution expense of $0.5 million. Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Years Ended December 31, Change 2023 2022 ($) (%) (dollars in thousands) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 93 $ 179,077 $ (178,984) (100) % Provision for income taxes decreased by $179.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the same period in 2022. The decrease was primarily due to a full valuation allowance that was recorded against our deferred tax assets during the year ended December 31, 2022. See Note 16, Income Taxes, to our consolidated financial statements included herein. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Net Income (Loss) to EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Our financial statements, including net income (loss), are prepared in accordance with GAAP. For more information regarding the components within our net income (loss), see Components of Our Results of Operations above. Net loss for the year ended December 31, 2023 was $15.7 million compared to a net loss of $82.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The decrease in net loss of $66.9 million was primarily due to a decrease in revenue of $27.5 million, a decrease in comparatively favorable change in fair value of warrant liability of $23.9 million, a decrease in income from the change in tax receivables agreement liability of $143.6 million resulting from the remeasurement of the TRA liability, a decrease in total costs and expenses of $78.7 million, a decrease in provision from income taxes of $179.0 million resulting from the full valuation recorded against our deferred tax assets during the year ended December 31, 2022 and an increase in other expense of $4.2 million. To provide investors with additional information regarding our financial results, we have disclosed EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, both of which are non-GAAP financial measures that we calculate as net income (loss) before interest, taxes and depreciation and amortization expense in the case of EBITDA and further adjusted to exclude stock-based compensation, change in fair value of warrant liability, transaction related bonus, legal settlements and other legal costs, discharge of holdback obligation related to prior acquisition, reduction in force, asset impairment charges, transaction costs, change in TRA liability and other non-cash, unusual and/or infrequent costs in the case of Adjusted EBITDA. Below we have provided a reconciliation of net loss (the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure) to EBITDA; and from EBITDA to Adjusted EBITDA. We present EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA because these metrics are a key measure used by our management to evaluate our operating performance, generate future operating plans and make strategic decisions regarding the allocation of investment capacity. Accordingly, we believe that EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA provide useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management. Each of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool, and you should not consider any of these non-GAAP financial measures in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are as follows: 58 Table of Contents although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future, and EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA do not reflect cash capital expenditure requirements for such replacements or for new capital expenditure requirements; EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA do not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs; and EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA do not reflect tax payments that may represent a reduction in cash available to us. Because of these limitations, you should consider EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA alongside other financial performance measures, including net loss and our other GAAP results. A reconciliation of net loss to non-GAAP EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA is as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 (in thousands) Net income (loss) $ (15,727) $ (82,651) $ 152,218 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 93 179,077 (601) Depreciation and amortization expenses 12,133 11,498 4,425 Interest income (33) EBITDA (3,534) 107,924 156,042 Stock-based compensation 13,515 23,493 29,324 Change in fair value of warrant liability (1,505) (25,370) (166,518) Warrant transaction costs 5,547 Asset impairment charges 24,403 4,317 2,372 Transaction related bonus expense 3,089 10,119 2,200 Transaction costs 251 2,583 Legal settlements and other legal costs 3,194 3,909 148 Discharge of holdback obligation related to prior acquisition (3,705) Change in tax receivable agreement liability 1,256 (142,352) Reduction in force (recovery) expense 194 8,076 Adjusted EBITDA $ 36,907 $ (9,633) $ 31,698 Seasonality The cannabis industry has certain industry holidays that in recent years have resulted in increased purchases by cannabis consumers. Such holidays include, but are not limited to 420, July 10th and the Wednesday before Thanksgiving (Green Wednesday). Likewise, our clients will typically increase spend heading into these events. We also typically invest in marketing spend around these holidays which can create some seasonality in our sales and market expenses from quarter to quarter. While seasonality has not had a significant impact on our results in the past, our clients may experience seasonality in their businesses which in turn can impact the revenue generated from them. Our business may become more seasonal in the future and historical patterns in our business may not be a reliable indicator of future performance. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following tables show our cash, accounts receivable and working capital as of the dates indicated: As of December 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Cash $ 34,350 $ 28,583 Accounts receivable, net $ 11,158 $ 17,438 Working capital $ 17,771 $ 8,660 As of December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, we had cash of $34.4 million and $28.6 million, respectively. Our funds are being used for funding our current operations and potential strategic acquisitions in the future. We also intend to increase our capital expenditures to support the organic growth in our business and operations. We expect to fund our liquidity requirements from cash and working capital on hand at December 31, 2023, as well as from cash provided by operating activities. We believe 59 Table of Contents that our existing cash and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months. However, our liquidity assumptions may prove to be incorrect, and we could exhaust our available financial resources sooner than we currently expect. We may seek to raise additional funds at any time through equity, equity-linked or debt financing arrangements. Our future capital requirements and the adequacy of available funds will depend on many factors. We may not be able to secure additional financing to meet our operating requirements on acceptable terms, or at all. Sources of Liquidity We primarily finance our operations and capital expenditures through cash flows generated by operations. To the extent existing cash and investments and cash from operations are not sufficient to fund future activities, we may need to raise additional funds. We may seek to raise additional funds through equity, equity-linked or debt financings. If we raise additional funds through the incurrence of indebtedness, such indebtedness may have rights that are senior to holders of our equity securities and could contain covenants that restrict operations. Any additional equity financing may be dilutive to stockholders. We may enter into investment or acquisition transactions in the future, which could require us to seek additional equity financing, incur indebtedness, or use cash resources. Cash Flows Years Ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 (in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 22,928 $ (11,621) $ 30,190 Net cash used in investing activities $ (11,871) $ (17,768) $ (30,435) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (5,290) $ (9,805) $ 48,103 Net Cash Provided by (Used In) Operating Activities Cash from operating activities consists primarily of net income (loss) adjusted for certain non-cash items, including depreciation, amortization and asset impairments, change in fair value of warrant liability, change in TRA liability, stock-based compensation, deferred taxes, impairment loss, provision for doubtful accounts and the effect of changes in working capital. Net cash provided by operating activities is also impacted by the effects of changes in operating assets and liabilities such as: accounts receivable which is impacted by the timing of customer billings and related collections from our customers; accounts payable and accrued expenses due to timing of payments; accrued personnel costs which are impacted by employee performance targets and the timing of payments related to employee bonus incentives. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2023 was $22.9 million, which resulted from net loss of $15.7 million, non-cash items of $52.8 million, consisting of asset impairment charges of $24.4 million, stock-based compensation expense of $13.5 million, depreciation and amortization of $12.1 million, amortization of right of use lease assets of $4.9 million, provision for credit losses of $1.8 million, TRA remeasurement of $1.3 million, partially offset by a gain from the discharge of a holdback obligation related to a prior acquisition of $3.7 million, and the change in fair value of warrant liability of $1.5 million. The increase in net cash provided by operating activities was also impacted by net cash outflows of $14.2 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities. The net cash outflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities were primarily due to a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses of $15.3 million, a decrease in operating lease liabilities of $6.3 million and a decrease in deferred revenue of $0.3 million, partially offset by a decrease in accounts receivable of $4.5 million and a decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets of $3.3 million. The changes in operating assets and liabilities are mostly due to fluctuations in timing of cash receipts and payments. Net cash used in operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $11.6 million, which resulted from net loss of $82.7 million, together with net cash outflows of $1.5 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities and non-cash items of $72.5 million, consisting of depreciation and amortization of $11.5 million, fair value of warrant liability of $25.4 million, asset impairment charges of $4.3 million, stock-based compensation expense of $23.5 million, TRA remeasurement of $142.4 million, amortization of right of use lease assets of $4.7 million, changes in deferred tax assets of $179.1 million and provision for doubtful accounts of $17.2 million. The net cash outflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities were primarily due to an increase in accounts receivables of $16.3 million, a decrease in deferred revenue of $1.9 million, a decrease in operating lease liabilities of $5.5 million, partially offset by a decrease in prepaid expenses and other current assets of $7.2 million and an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses of $14.9 million. The changes in operating assets and liabilities are mostly due to fluctuations in timing of cash receipts and payments. 60 Table of Contents Net Cash Used in Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2023 was $11.9 million, which resulted from $11.9 million cash paid for purchases of property and equipment, including certain capitalized software development cost. Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $17.8 million, which resulted from $16.1 million cash paid for purchases of property and equipment, including certain capitalized software development cost, $1.0 million cash paid for other investments and $0.7 million net cash paid for acquisitions, Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities Net Cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2023 was $5.3 million, which resulted from $7.2 million of distribution payments to members of WMH LLC, $1.5 million for repayment of insurance premium financing and $0.4 million in proceeds from collection of related party note receivable. Net cash from financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $9.8 million, which resulted from $7.3 million for repayment of insurance premium financing and $2.4 million of distribution payments to members of WMH LLC. Contractual Obligations and Commitments We have non-cancellable contractual agreements primarily related to leases and other purchase obligations. As of December 31, 2023, future payments on our operating leases were $45.0 million. See Note 4, Leases, to our consolidated financial statements included herein. We also have minimum outstanding purchase obligations of $7.1 million in 2024, $7.3 million in 2025 and $7.5 million in 2026, due under software license agreements, of which the majority relates to our three-year AWS Enterprise agreement. As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, our TRA liability was $1.8 million and $0.5 million, respectively. We expect that the payments we will be required to make under the TRA will not be substantial, and therefore, in conjunction with the recording of a full valuation allowance on the related TRA deferred tax assets, we have also adjusted the TRA liabilities as of December 31, 2023. We will continue to evaluate the realization of the TRA tax attributes, and in the future, we may conclude that the TRA liability is probable of payment, and if the TRA is reinstated, the payments would be substantial. Assuming a reinstatement of the TRA liability, there are several assumptions that would be relevant such as, no material changes in relevant tax law, that there are no future redemptions or exchanges of Class A Units and that we earn sufficient taxable income to realize all tax benefits that are subject to the TRA, the tax savings associated with acquisitions of common units in the Business Combination would aggregate to approximately $166.3 million, as of December 31, 2023, over 15 years from Closing Date. Under this scenario, we would be required to pay to the Class A Unit holders approximately 85% of such amount, or $141.3 million, as of December 31, 2023, over the 15-year period from the Closing Date. The actual amounts we will be required to pay may materially differ from these hypothetical amounts, because potential future tax savings that we will be deemed to realize, and the TRA payments made by us, will be calculated based in part on the market value of the Class A Common Stock at the time of each redemption or exchange under the Exchange Agreement and the prevailing applicable tax rates applicable to us over the life of the TRA and will depend on us generating sufficient taxable income to realize the tax benefits that are subject to the TRA. Payments under the TRA are not conditioned on the Class A Unit holders continued ownership of us. See Note 16, Income Taxes, to our consolidated financial statements included herein. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. We believe that the assumptions and estimates associated with revenue recognition, income taxes, stock-based compensation, capitalized software development costs, provision for doubtful accounts, goodwill and intangible assets and fair value measurements to have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements. Therefore, we consider these to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. For further information on all of our significant accounting policies, see Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to our consolidated financial statements included herein. Critical Accounting Policies Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue when the fundamental criteria for revenue recognition are met. We recognize revenue by applying the following five steps: the contract with the customer is identified; the performance obligations in the contract are identified; the 61 Table of Contents transaction price is determined; the transaction price is allocated to the performance obligations in the contract; and revenue is recognized when (or as) we satisfy these performance obligations in an amount that reflects the consideration it expects to be entitled to in exchange for those services. We exclude sales taxes and other similar taxes from the measurement of the transaction price. The transaction price reflects the amount we expect to receive for such goods, net of discounts. Discounts issued are primarily related to our Together for Equity Access and Legislation, (WM Teal), program, through which we provide discounts including free software, advertising, educational materials and training programs to applicants or licenses under social equity licensing programs. We provide a discount to license holders who were awarded special status by the state based on owner qualifications. These are typically given in new markets to add more diversity and inclusion in the cannabis space. We validate a licenses social equity status on the applicable states website. For the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, total discounts issued were $4.2 million, $4.5 million and $2.6 million, respectively. For clients that pay in advance for listing and other services, we record deferred revenue and recognize revenue over the applicable subscription term. Our revenues are derived primarily from monthly subscriptions to Weedmaps for Business, featured and deal listings and other WM Ad solutions. Our Weedmaps for Business subscriptions generally have one-month terms that automatically renew unless notice of cancellation is provided in advance. Featured and deal listings and other WM Ad solutions are offered as add-on products to the Weedmaps for Business subscriptions. Featured and deal listings provide customers with premium placement ad solutions and discount and promotion pricing tools. Other WM Ad solutions include banner ads and promotion tiles on our marketplace ad as well as other advertising products on and off the Weedmaps marketplace. We have a fixed inventory of featured listing and display advertising in each market, and price is generally determined through a competitive auction process that reflects local market demand. Revenues for these arrangements are recognized over-time, generally during a month-to-month subscription period as the products are provided. We rarely need to allocate the transaction price to separate performance obligations. In the rare case that allocation of the transaction price is needed, We recognize revenue in proportion to the standalone selling prices of the underlying services at contract inception. The determination of the performance obligations and the timing of satisfaction of such obligations either over time or at a point-in-time requires us to make significant judgment and estimates. When a customer is identified to be a significant collection risk, the Company fully reserves for all outstanding accounts receivable and records a credit loss for these receivables. Revenue for any new service provided to the customer is not probable of collection until we have collected or reached a settlement on the customers old outstanding accounts receivable balances. We apply all payments received against the customers oldest invoices and we do not recognize revenue for any new services provided until we have collected or reached a settlement on all prior outstanding accounts receivable. Collectability is reassessed when there is a significant change in facts or circumstances. The assessment of collectability considers whether we may limit its exposure to credit risk through its right to stop transferring additional service in the event the customer is delinquent. See Note 3, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, to our consolidated financial statements included herein. Critical Accounting Estimates Income Taxes As a result of the Business Combination, WM Technology, Inc. became the sole managing member of WMH LLC, which is treated as a partnership for U.S. federal and most applicable state and local income tax purposes. As a partnership, WMH LLC is not subject to U.S. federal and certain state and local income taxes. Accordingly, no provision for U.S. federal and state income taxes has been recorded in the financial statements for the period of January 1 to June 16, 2021 as this period was prior to the Business Combination. Any taxable income or loss generated by WMH LLC is passed through to and included in the taxable income or loss of its members, including WM Technology, Inc. following the Business Combination, on a pro rata basis. WM Technology, Inc. is subject to U.S. federal income taxes, in addition to state and local income taxes with respect to its allocable share of any taxable income of WMH LLC following the Business Combination. We are also subject to taxes in foreign jurisdictions. Tax laws and regulations are complex and periodically changing and the determination of our provision for income taxes, including our taxable income, deferred tax assets and TRA liability, requires us to make significant judgment, assumptions and estimates. In connection with the Business Combination, we entered into a TRA with continuing members that provides for a payment to the continuing members of 85% of the amount of tax benefits, if any, that WM Technology, Inc. realizes, or is deemed to realize, as a result of redemptions or exchanges of WMH Units. In connection with such potential future tax benefits resulting from the Business Combination and subsequent redemptions or exchanges of WHM Units, we have established a deferred tax asset for the additional tax basis and a corresponding TRA liability of 85% of the expected benefit. The remaining 15% is recorded within paid-in capital. Our calculation of the TRA asset and liability requires estimates of its future qualified taxable income over the term of the TRA as a basis to determine if the related tax benefits are expected to be realized. As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, TRA liability were $1.8 million and $0.5 million. 62 Table of Contents Based on the weight of all available evidence, both positive and negative, we determined during the three months ended December 31, 2022 that a full valuation allowance was required against our net deferred tax assets. We continued the remeasurement of the valuation allowance during the year ended December 31, 2023 and determined that a full valuation allowance was required as of December 31, 2023. See Note 16, Income Taxes, to our consolidated financial statements included herein. Stock-based Compensation We measure fair value of employee stock-based compensation awards on the date of grant and allocate the related expense over the requisite service period. The fair value of restricted stock units (RSUs) and performance-based restricted stock units (PRSUs) is equal to the market price of our Class A common stock on the date of grant. The fair value of the Class P Units is measured using the Black-Scholes-Merton valuation model. When awards include a performance condition that impacts the vesting of the award, we record compensation cost when it becomes probable that the performance condition will be met. The level of achievement of such goals in the performance-based restricted stock awards may cause the actual number of units that ultimately vest to range from 0% to 200% of the original units granted. Forfeitures of stock-based awards are recognized as they occur. For the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, we recognized stock-based compensation expense of $13.5 million and $23.5 million, respectively. See Note 14, Stock-based Compensation, to our consolidated financial statements included herein. Capitalized Software Development Costs We capitalize certain costs related to the development and enhancement of the Weedmaps platform and SaaS solutions. In accordance with authoritative guidance, we capitalize these costs when the preliminary development project stage is completed, management has authorized further funding for the completion of the project, and it is probable that the project will be completed and performed as intended. Such costs are amortized when placed in service, on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the related asset, generally estimated to be three years. Costs incurred prior to meeting these criteria together with costs incurred for training and maintenance are expensed as incurred and recorded in product development expenses on our consolidated statements of operations. Costs incurred for enhancements that were expected to result in additional features or functionality are capitalized and expensed over the estimated useful life of the enhancements, generally three years. The accounting for website and internal-use software costs requires us to make significant judgment, assumptions and estimates related to the timing and amount of recognized capitalized software development costs. For the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, we capitalized $13.1 million and $15.5 million of costs related to the development of software applications. Accounts Receivable We measure credit losses on our trade accounts receivable using the current expected credit loss model under Accounting Standards Codification 326 Financial Instruments Credit Losses, which is based on the expected losses rather than incurred losses. Under the credit loss model, lifetime expected credit losses are measured and recognized at each reporting date based on historical, current and forecast information. We calculate the expected credit losses on a pool basis for those trade receivables that have similar risk characteristics. For those trade receivables that do not share similar risk characteristics, the allowance for expected credit losses is calculated on an individual basis. Risk characteristics relevant to our accounts receivable include balance of customer account and aging status. The allowance for credit losses was $8.7 million and $12.2 million as of December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to our consolidated financial statements included herein. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Assets and liabilities acquired from acquisitions are recorded at their estimated fair values. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired, including identifiable intangible assets, is recorded as goodwill. The accounting for goodwill and intangible assets requires us to make significant judgement, estimates and assumptions. Significant estimates and assumptions in valuing acquired intangible assets and liabilities include projected cash flows attributable to the assets or liabilities, asset useful lives and discount rates. Goodwill is not amortized and is subject to annual impairment testing, or between annual tests if an event or change in circumstance occurs that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. Intangible assets deemed to have finite lives are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, where the useful life is the period over which the asset is expected to contribute directly, or indirectly, to our future cash flows. Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment on an interim basis when certain events or circumstances exist. For amortizable intangible assets, impairment exists when the carrying amount of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value. At least annually, the remaining useful life is evaluated. We recorded an impairment charge of $6.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 related to 63 Table of Contents intangible assets associated with certain product offerings that were sunset in December 2023, which is included in asset impairment charges in the consolidated statements of operations. No intangible asset impairment charges have been recorded for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021. See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, and Note 9, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, to these consolidated financial statements for additional information. Other Long-Lived Assets We assess potential impairments to our long-lived assets, which includes property and equipment and operating lease assets, at least annually or whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, our operating leases had a weighted average remaining lease term of 6.3 years and 6.8 years and a weighted-average discount rate of 9.8%. Our lease agreements do not provide an implicit rate and as a result, we used an estimated incremental borrowing rate, which was derived from third-party information available at the time we adopted ASC 842 in determining the present value of future lease payments. The rate used is for a secured borrowing of a similar term as the right of use asset. The fair value was estimated using an income approach based on managements forecast of future cash flows expected to be derived based on current sublease market rent. We assess impairment of ROU assets when an event and change in circumstance indicates that the carrying value of such ROU assets may not be recoverable. If an event and a change in circumstance indicates that the carrying value of an ROU asset may not be recoverable and the estimated fair value attributable to the ROU asset is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss equals to the excess of the ROU assets carrying value over its fair value is recognized. The fair values of ROU assets were estimated using an income approach based on managements forecast of future cash flows expected to be derived based on the sublease market rent. First, we test the asset group for recoverability by comparing the undiscounted cash flows of the asset group, which include expected future lease payments related to the lease agreement offset by expected sublease income, to the carrying amount of the asset group. If the first step of the long-lived asset impairment test concludes that the carrying amount of the asset group is not recoverable, we perform the second step of the long-lived asset impairment test by comparing the fair value of the asset group to its carrying amount and recognizing a lease impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the fair value. To estimate the fair value of the asset group, we rely on a discounted cash flow approach using market participant assumptions of the expected cash flows. In 2023,we recognized a ROU asset impairment charge of $10.9 million driven by updated sublease assumptions for our second headquarter space in Los Angeles, California, pursuant to an operating lease that expires in 2031. In addition, we recognized ROU asset impairment charges of $0.6 million and $2.4 million during the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, related to certain ROU assets reducing the carrying values of the lease assets to their estimated fair values based on the discounted cash flows of estimated net rental income for the office spaces subleased. The ROU impairment charges are included in general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of operations. We assess impairment of property and equipment when an event and change in circumstance indicates that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. If an event and a change in circumstance indicates that the carrying amount of an asset (or asset group) may not be recoverable and the expected undiscounted cash flows attributable to the asset are less than its carrying value, an impairment loss equals to the excess of the assets carrying value over its fair value is recognized. For the year ended December 31, 2023, we recorded impairment charges of $3.9 million of which $2.7 million related to property and equipment associated with certain product offerings that were sunset in December 2023 and $1.3 million related to leasehold improvements associated with the impairment of a ROU asset both of which are included in asset impairment charges in the consolidated statements of operations. No impairments to property and equipment were recorded during the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021. Fair Value Measurements In connection with the Business Combination, we assumed 12,499,993 Public Warrants and 7,000,000 Private Placement Warrants. As of December 31, 2023, 12,499,973 of the Public Warrant and all of the Private Placement Warrants remained outstanding . The warrants are measured at fair value under ASC 820 - Fair Value Measurements. The fair value of the Public Warrants is classified as Level 1 financial instruments and is based on the publicly listed trading price of our Public Warrants. The fair value of the Private Warrants is determined with Level 3 inputs using the Black-Scholes model. The fair value of the Private Placement Warrants may change significantly as additional data is obtained. In evaluating this information, considerable judgment is required to interpret the data used to develop the assumptions and estimates. The estimates of fair value may not be indicative of the amounts that could be realized in a current market exchange. Accordingly, the use of different market assumptions and/or different valuation techniques may have a material effect on the estimated fair value, and such changes could materially impact our results of operations in future periods. As of December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, warrant liability was $0.6 million and $2.1 million, respectively. See Note 6, Fair Value Measurements, to our consolidated financial statements included herein. 64 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Pronouncements We currently have no material recent accounting pronouncements yet to be adopted.