Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of this Annual Report. Sales and Marketing We have continued to make investments to expand our sales, marketing and technical applications support, as well as distribution capabilities to further enable new and existing customers to design and implement our silicon carbide and power technology into their products. We have continued to make investments to promote and build market awareness of our Wolfspeed brand. Our sales, marketing and technical applications teams include personnel throughout North America, Asia and Europe. Customers In fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022, we had two, two and three customers, respectively, that each represented more than 10% of our consolidated revenue. These customers, in the aggregate, accounted for 37%, 36% and 48% of our total consolidated revenue in fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. For further discussion regarding customer concentration, please see Note 16, Concentrations of Risk, in our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report. The loss of any large customer could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Distribution A portion of our products are sold to distributors. Distributors stock inventory and sell our products to their own customer base, which may include: value added resellers, manufacturers who incorporate our products into their own manufactured goods and ultimate end users of our products. We also utilize third-party sales representatives who generally do not maintain a product inventory; instead, their customers place orders directly with us or through distributors. Design-ins Design-ins are customer commitments to purchase our products and are one of the factors we use to forecast long-term demand and future revenue. To meet the qualification of a design-in, the customer provides us with documentation (e.g., a letter of intent, statement of work or developmental contract) that can include details such as the expected delivery timeline, estimated price, necessary capacity and required support. A design-in, even with a formal commitment, does not always convert to future revenue (a "design-win") for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, the customer delaying or abandoning the project, capacity constraints, timeline challenges, and/or technology changes. Therefore, management uses the design-in amount as a guide to forecast future demand but it should not be taken as an absolute indicator of future revenue. Design-ins for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 were $9.1 billion, compared with design-ins of approximately $7.9 billion for the fiscal year ended June 25, 2023. Design-wins Design-ins are considered design-wins when a customer issues a purchase order for at least 20% of the expected first year revenue. Design-wins reflect each project's entire commitment at the time this criterion is satisfied and should not be taken as an absolute indicator of future revenue. Depending on timing, certain projects may be reflected within a single period's design-in and design-win figures. Design-wins for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 were $5.8 billion, compared with design-wins of $1.8 billion for the fiscal year ended June 25, 2023. Manufacturing We manufacture silicon carbide substrates, silicon carbide MOSFETs and Schottky diodes and power modules. We utilize manufacturing facilities located in the United States in combination with assembly and test subcontractors throughout Asia. Manufacturing assets are managed together through one centralized organization to ensure we leverage scale in asset utilization, purchasing volumes, and overhead costs across the business. 5 Table of Contents Silicon carbide substrate manufacturing occurs in our highly complex materials facility and involves production of a bare wafer substrate with or without epitaxy. Our front-end processes occur in manufacturing facilities called "wafer fabs". These processes involve several hundred manufacturing steps required for imprinting silicon carbide wafers with the precise circuitry required for semiconductor devices to function. Back-end processes include the assembly, test and packaging of semiconductors to make them suitable for use and sale. Yields in our manufacturing process can vary and are dependent upon multiple factors including product complexity and performance requirements as well as the maturity of the process. In order to maximize both yield and quality, we maintain in-line process monitoring and testing. Our substrate and wafer fab manufacturing facilities are certified to ISO 9001, IATF 16949, and ISO 14001. Our silicon carbide device fabrication facility in Marcy, New York (the Mohawk Valley Fab) is certified to ISO 9001 and IATF 16949 and is in the process of being certified for ISO 14001. ISO 9001 is the international standard that specifies requirements for a quality management system and focuses on the ability to consistently provide products and services that meet customer requirements. IATF 16949 is the highest international quality standard for the automotive industry. ISO 14001 is an internationally agreed upon standard for an environmental management system. Sources of Raw Materials We depend on a number of suppliers for certain raw materials, components and equipment used in manufacturing our products, including certain key materials and equipment used in critical stages of our manufacturing processes. In select cases, we have purchase contracts with suppliers in place to help ensure our supply. In other cases, we purchase items pursuant to discrete purchase orders. Our suppliers are located around the world and can be subject to constraints beyond our control that may limit supply. We believe our current supply of essential materials is sufficient to meet our needs. However, shortages have occurred from time to time and could occur again. We are focused on forecasting demand with sufficient time necessary to secure raw materials that may have extended lead times and we continue to work with suppliers to develop purchase and capacity agreements that secure supply over extended time periods, including accommodating our suppliers' need for capital investment when needed. We continue to experience higher prices on our raw materials as a result of inflation pressures, including base price increases and price surcharges. We have mitigated these increases by leveraging our growth to negotiate efficiencies and productivity-based cost reductions. We have continued to be successful in managing through these current issues and demonstrated the ability to navigate through significant supply challenges. We believe our operations are currently not materially impacted by our ability to source raw materials, components and equipment used in manufacturing our products. Competition Silicon Carbide and GaN Materials We have continued to maintain a well-established leadership position in the sale of silicon carbide wafer and silicon carbide and GaN epitaxy products. As market adoption of the technology grows with rapidly expanding power device designs, we have experienced increased competition from companies such as Coherent, Inc., SiCrystal GmbH, IQE plc and Resonac Holdings Corporation in the United States, Europe and Japan. In China, we have observed increased competition from companies such as SICC Co., Ltd. and EpiWorld International Co., Ltd. We believe our leading technology and leveraged production scale position us to reliably supply production volumes to the device manufacturers in the market. Power Devices Our silicon carbide power devices compete with silicon carbide power semiconductor solutions offered by Infineon Technologies AG, ON Semiconductor Corporation, Rohm Co. Ltd., and ST Microelectronics N.V., as well as an increasing number of smaller competitors. Our silicon carbide products also compete with silicon semiconductor devices offered by a variety of manufacturers. Our power products compete in the power semiconductor market on the basis of performance, reliability and overall system price. 6 Table of Contents Patents and Other Intellectual Property Rights We believe it is important to protect our investment in technology by obtaining and enforcing intellectual property rights, including rights under patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright laws. We seek to protect inventions we consider significant by applying for patents in the United States and other countries when appropriate. We have also acquired, through license grants, purchases and assignments, rights to patents on inventions originally developed by others. As of June 30, 2024, we owned or were the exclusive licensee of 552 issued United States patents and approximately 1,048 foreign patents with various expiration dates extending up to 2049, with certain patents expiring in the near term. We do not consider our business to be materially dependent upon any one patent, and we believe our business will not be materially adversely affected by the expiration of any one patent. For proprietary technology that is not patented, we generally seek to protect the technology and related know-how and information as trade secrets by keeping confidential the information that we believe provides us with a competitive advantage. We attempt to create strong brands for our products and promote our products through trademarks that distinguish them in the market. We may license to our customers use of our trademarks in connection with the sale of our products, and we monitor for the proper and authorized use of our trademarks. Licensing activities and lawsuits to enforce intellectual property rights, particularly patent rights, are a common aspect of the semiconductor industry, and we attempt to ensure respect for our intellectual property rights through appropriate actions. The breadth of our intellectual property rights and the extent to which they can be successfully enforced varies across jurisdictions. We both make and receive inquiries regarding possible patent infringements and possible violations of other intellectual property rights in the normal course of business. Depending on the circumstances, we may seek to negotiate a license or other acceptable resolution. If we are unable to achieve a resolution by agreement, we may seek to enforce our rights or defend our position through litigation. Patent litigation in particular is expensive and the outcome is often uncertain. We believe that the strength of our portfolio of patent rights is important in helping us resolve or avoid such disputes with other companies in our industry. Governmental Regulation We are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign provisions regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. These include statutory and regulatory provisions under which we are responsible for the management of hazardous materials we use and the disposition of hazardous wastes resulting from our manufacturing processes. Failure to comply with such provisions could result in fines and other liabilities to the government or third parties, injunctions requiring us to suspend or curtail operations or other remedies, and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Increasing public attention has been focused on the environmental impact of semiconductor manufacturing operations. We, along with the rest of the semiconductor industry, are subject to variable interpretations and governmental priorities concerning environmental laws and regulations. We endorse and adhere to Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) standards for all our sites. It is our EHS goal to design and develop products safely, that realize energy efficiency, minimize environmental impacts, and have sustainable life cycles. In this manner, we are striving to continuously improve our EHS performance and reduce the overall impacts of our manufacturing processes. To further ensure that we can implement such standards, we are dedicated to: providing a safe and healthy work environment for our employees; complying with regulatory and other requirements; using natural resources, energy, and materials efficiently; substituting sustainable resources in place of non-renewable resources; reusing or recycling materials wherever technically possible and economically reasonable; minimizing waste and disposing of waste safely and responsibly; sourcing raw material responsibly; implementing specific measures to prevent and minimize hazards to humans; and the environment including pollution prevention; and consulting with and encouraging the participation of workers and workers representatives, as applicable. Our EHS management systems in our manufacturing facilities in Durham and Research Triangle Park, North Carolina are certified to ISO 14001:2015 for environmental management. The benefits of implementing environmental and safety management systems include improved risk management, cost savings, meeting external stakeholder expectations, ensuring compliance with environmental and occupational safety laws, and decreasing our environmental footprint through discovering new possibilities for energy, water and waste usage reductions. 7 Table of Contents We are also subject to import-export controls, tariffs and other trade-related regulations and restrictions in countries in which we have operations or otherwise do business. These controls, tariffs, regulations, and restrictions may have a material impact on our business, including our ability to sell products and to manufacture or source components. Working Capital For a discussion of our working capital practices, see Liquidity and Capital Resources in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," of this Annual Report. Human Capital Employees As of June 30, 2024, we employed 5,013 regular full and part-time employees. We also employ individuals on a temporary full-time basis and use the services of contractors as necessary. Certain employees in various countries outside of the United States are subject to laws providing representation rights. Employee Retention and Development We believe that our future success largely depends upon our continued ability to identify, attract, motivate and retain qualified personnel. Core to our ability to attract and retain talent is our high-performance culture, which is based on our three central values of (1) safety, integrity and respect, (2) ownership and accountability, and (3) ingenuity and passion. We are committed to creating and sustaining a culture where all employees are engaged and can contribute to their full potential. We aim to provide our employees with competitive compensation, as well as opportunities for equity ownership and developmental programs that enable continued learning and growth. We endeavor to utilize recruiting practices that yield qualified and dedicated employees who are driven to achieve our vision. We are committed to offering an environment in which employees are ensured equal job opportunities and have a chance for advancement. We also have initiatives in place to reduce our global employee turnover rates, which are monitored and reviewed quarterly. Our goal is to ensure employees can find development and career growth without having to leave Wolfspeed. Compensation and Benefits We are focused on offering competitive compensation and comprehensive benefit packages designed to promote the physical and emotional well-being and financial health of our employees. In addition to base pay, our total compensation package includes items such as bonuses, stock-based compensation, employee stock purchase plans and employee referral bonuses. Our benefits package includes employee learnings, health and welfare, tuition reimbursement, student loan repayment, several wellness and emotional support options, adoption assistance and a family care program. We offer a 'work where it works' arrangement that allows employees who are able to perform their job duties from an off-campus location to have the flexibility of working remotely full-time or part-time. Additionally, we sponsor a 401(k) employee benefit plan for our United States based employees and we match a defined percentage of employee contributions. Health and Safety The safety, health, and overall well-being of our employees and contractors is integrated into the way we do business. We aim to provide a safe and healthy work environment through various measures, including accountability for health and safety performance with line management, setting acceptable levels of risk based on government regulation or industry best practice, and evaluating health and safety incidents to prevent recurrence, among other programs. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion We believe diversity, equity, and inclusion drives better business results and makes all of us better employees and people. We are striving to build an environment where inclusivity is real and active, rather than theoretical and static. We celebrate our employees differences and authenticity, and understand that diverse ideas, perspectives, thinking styles, and backgrounds produce higher quality decisions, enabling us to solve problems other companies consider to be impossible. Our efforts to foster a diverse and inclusive workplace include Employee Resources Groups, a Diversity, Equity and Inclusion leadership team that partners with our Human Resources department and various scholarship programs in our surrounding communities. We believe these initiatives help contribute to the development of future leaders, increased employee engagement and expanded market reach. 8 Table of Contents Available Information Our website address is www.wolfspeed.com and our investor relations website is located at https://investor.wolfspeed.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, statements of changes in beneficial ownership and amendments to those reports are available for free on our investor relations website as soon as reasonably practicable after these are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The contents of our website, including our investor relations website, are not incorporated by reference into this filing or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC. We have no duty to update or revise any forward-looking statements in this Annual Report or in other reports filed with the SEC, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, unless we are required to do so by law. The SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Item 1A. Risk Factors Described below are various risks and uncertainties that may affect our business. If any of the risks described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Risk categories and certain principal risks under each category (each described more fully below): Risks related to our global operations, including global macroeconomic and market risks Our business may be adversely affected by the state of the global economy, uncertainties in global financial markets, our ability, or our customers' or suppliers' ability, to access funding, and possible trade tariffs and trade restrictions. We are subject to risks related to international sales and purchases. Risks related to sales, product development and manufacturing We face significant challenges managing our growth strategy. Variations in our production could impact our ability to reduce costs and could cause our margins to decline and our operating results to suffer. Our results of operations, financial condition and business could be harmed if we are unable to balance customer demand and capacity. Risks associated with our strategic transactions If we fail to evaluate and execute strategic opportunities successfully, our business may suffer. We are subject to a number of risks associated with the sale of our former RF product line (the RF Business), and these risks could adversely impact our operations, financial condition and business. Risks associated with cybersecurity, intellectual property and litigation We may be subject to confidential information theft or misuse, which could harm our business and results of operations. There are limitations on our ability to protect our intellectual property. Risks related to legal, regulatory, accounting, tax and compliance matters We may be required to recognize a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill or other assets become impaired. The adoption of or changes in government and/or industry policies, standards or regulations relating to the efficiency, performance, vehicle range or other aspects of our products and the products in which they are utilized could impact the demand for our products. General risk factors We have outstanding debt which could materially restrict our business and adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents Risks related to our global operations, including global macroeconomic and market risks Our business may be adversely affected by the state of the global economy, uncertainties in global financial markets, our ability, or our customers' or suppliers' ability, to access funding, and possible trade tariffs and trade restrictions. Our operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic and geopolitical conditions. Uncertainty about global economic conditions could result in customers postponing purchases of our products and services in response to tighter credit, unemployment, negative financial news, higher interest rates and/or declines in income or asset values and other macroeconomic factors, which could have a material negative effect on demand for our products and services and, accordingly, on our business, results of operations or financial condition. For example, current global financial markets continue to reflect uncertainty, including as a result of the ongoing military conflict between Russia and Ukraine and the ongoing conflicts in the Middle East, as well as a slowdown of the economy in China, which could impact demand for our products used in industrial and energy applications. Given these uncertainties, there could be further disruptions to the global economy, financial markets and consumer confidence. If economic conditions deteriorate unexpectedly, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. For example, our customers, including our distributors and their customers, may experience difficulty obtaining the working capital and other financing necessary to support historical or projected purchasing patterns, which could negatively affect our results of operations. Various global economic slowdowns could occur and potentially result in certain economies dipping into economic recessions, including in the United States. Additionally, increased inflation around the world, including in the United States, applies pressure to our costs. Economic slowdowns or recessions and inflationary pressures could have a negative impact on our business, including decreased demand, increased costs, and other challenges. Government actions to address economic slowdowns and increased inflation, including increased interest rates, also could result in negative impacts to our growth. General trade tensions between the United States and China continue, and any economic and political uncertainty caused by the United States tariffs imposed on goods from China, among other potential countries, and any corresponding tariffs or currency devaluations from China or such other countries in response, has negatively impacted, and may in the future negatively impact, demand and/or increase the cost for our products. Additionally, Russias invasion of Ukraine in early 2022 triggered significant sanctions from the United States and European countries. Resulting changes in United States trade policy could trigger retaliatory actions by Russia, its allies and other affected countries, including China, resulting in a potential trade war. Furthermore, if the conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and in the Middle East continue for a prolonged period of time, or if other countries, including the United States, become involved in these conflicts, we could face significant adverse effects to our business and financial condition. For example, if our supply or customer arrangements are disrupted due to expanded sanctions or involvement of countries where we have operations or relationships, our business could be materially disrupted. Further, the use of cyberattacks could expand as part of the conflict, which could adversely affect our ability to maintain or enhance our cyber-security and data protection measures. Although we believe we have adequate liquidity and capital resources to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months, we expect to need additional funding to fully complete all of our intended expansion initiatives, which we may seek to obtain through, among other avenues, government funding in both the United States and Europe, public or private equity offerings, and debt financings (which may involve retiring, refinancing, or modifying some of our existing debt). If unfavorable capital market conditions exist, we may not be able to raise sufficient capital on favorable terms and on a timely basis, if at all. If we issue equity or convertible debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing shareholders may experience dilution and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our then-existing shareholders. If we incur additional debt, it may impose financial and operating covenants that could restrict the operations of our business. In a rising interest rate environment, debt financing will become more expensive and may have higher transactional and servicing costs. In addition, our existing indebtedness may limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future. The potential inability to obtain adequate funding from debt or capital sources in the future could force us to self-fund strategic initiatives or even forego certain opportunities, which in turn could potentially harm our performance. We are subject to risks related to international sales and purchases. In fiscal 2024, 86% of our revenue was from outside the United States and we expect that revenue from international sales will continue to represent a significant portion of our total revenue. As such, a significant slowdown or instability in relevant foreign economies or lower investments in new infrastructure could have a negative impact on our sales. We also purchase a portion of the materials included in our products from overseas sources. Our international sales and purchases are subject to numerous United States and foreign laws and regulations, including, without limitation, tariffs, trade sanctions, trade barriers, trade embargoes, regulations relating to import-export control, technology transfer restrictions, the International Traffic in Arms Regulation promulgated under the Arms Export Control Act, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the anti-boycott provisions of the United States Export Administration Act. The United 10 Table of Contents States Government has imposed, and in the future may impose, restrictions on shipments to some of our current customers. Government restrictions on sales to certain foreign customers will reduce our revenue and profit related to those customers in the short term and could have a potential long-term impact. Our international sales are subject to variability as our selling prices become less competitive in countries with currencies that are declining in value against the U.S. Dollar and more competitive in countries with currencies that are increasing in value against the U.S. Dollar. In addition, our international purchases can become more expensive if the U.S. Dollar weakens against the foreign currencies in which we are billed. We may in the future enter into foreign currency derivative financial instruments in an effort to manage or hedge some of our foreign exchange rate risk. We may not be able to engage in hedging transactions in the future, and, even if we do, foreign currency fluctuations may still have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our operations in foreign countries expose us to certain risks inherent in doing business internationally, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. We have revenue, operations and contract manufacturing arrangements in foreign countries that expose us to certain risks. For example, fluctuations in exchange rates may affect our revenue, expenses and results of operations as well as the value of our assets and liabilities as reflected in our financial statements. We are also subject to other types of risks of doing business internationally, including the following: protection of intellectual property and trade secrets; tariffs, customs, trade sanctions, trade embargoes and other barriers to importing/exporting materials and products in a cost-effective and timely manner, or changes in applicable tariffs or custom rules, such as the additional customs duties incurred related to our former Lighting Products business unit; the burden of complying with and changes in United States or international taxation policies; timing and availability of export licenses; rising labor costs; disruptions in or inadequate infrastructure of the countries where we operate; the impact of public health epidemics on employees and the global economy; difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; and the burden of complying with foreign and international laws and treaties. For example, the United States has imposed significant tariffs on Chinese-made goods, which the Biden administration has largely left in place, and in certain instances increased or proposed to increase such tariffs. The tariffs imposed on Chinese goods, among other potential countries and any corresponding tariffs from China or such other countries in response has, and may in the future, negatively impact demand and/or increase the costs for our products. In some instances, we have received and may continue to receive incentives from foreign governments to encourage our investment in certain countries, regions or areas outside of the United States. Government incentives may include tax rebates, reduced tax rates, favorable lending policies and other measures, some or all of which may be available to us due to our foreign operations. Any of these incentives could be reduced or eliminated by governmental authorities at any time or as a result of our inability to maintain minimum operations necessary to earn the incentives. Any reduction or elimination of incentives provided for our operations could adversely affect our business and results of operations. These same governments also may provide increased incentives to or require production processes that favor local companies, which could further negatively impact our business and results of operations. Changes in regulatory, geopolitical, social, economic, or monetary policies and other factors, including those which may result from the outcome of the 2024 United States Presidential election, if any, may have a material adverse effect on our business in the future, or may require us to exit a particular market or significantly modify our current business practices. Abrupt political change, terrorist activity and armed conflict pose a risk of general economic disruption in affected countries, which could also result in an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Risks related to sales, product development and manufacturing We face significant challenges managing our growth strategy. Our potential for growth depends significantly on the adoption of our products within the markets we serve and for other applications, and our ability to affect this rate of adoption. In order to manage our growth and business strategy effectively relative to the uncertain pace of adoption, we must continue to: maintain, expand, construct and purchase adequate manufacturing facilities and equipment, as well as secure sufficient third-party manufacturing resources, to meet customer demand, including specifically the expansion of our 11 Table of Contents silicon carbide capacity with ramping of our state-of-the-art, automated 200mm capable silicon carbide device fabrication facility in New York, an expansion of our materials factory in Durham, North Carolina, the construction of a new materials manufacturing facility in Siler City, North Carolina, the renovation of an epitaxy facility in Farmers Branch, Texas, and the planned construction of a new 200mm capable silicon carbide device fabrication facility in Saarland, Germany; meet our production capacity and delivery commitments to our customers, including those customers who provide us with capacity reservation deposits or similar payments; manage an increasingly complex supply chain (including managing the impacts of ongoing supply constraints in the semiconductor industry and meeting purchase commitments under take-or-pay arrangements with certain suppliers) that has the ability to supply an increasing number of raw materials, subsystems and finished products with the required specifications and quality, and deliver on time to our manufacturing facilities, our third-party manufacturing facilities, our logistics operations, or our customers; expand the skills and capabilities of our current management team; add experienced senior level managers and executives; attract and retain qualified employees; expand the capability of our information systems to support a more complex business, such as our ongoing implementation of a new company-wide enterprise resource planning (ERP) system; be successful in securing design-ins across our end markets, including automotive applications; realize our expected local, state and federal government incentives, including capital investment reimbursements, property tax reimbursements and sales tax exemptions from state, county and local governments; finalize negotiations on a Preliminary Memorandum of Terms and, if an agreement can be reached, complete comprehensive due diligence, finalize award documentation, and fulfill all conditions and milestones for and receive the expected benefits from capital grants through the United States CHIPS and Science Act of 2022 (the CHIPS Act); confirm our eligibility for and receive the expected benefits from refundable income tax credits through the CHIPS Act, and receive and potentially sell any tax credits for which we may apply under the Inflation Reduction Act; access capital markets to fund our growth initiatives, including our ongoing and planned capacity expansions; safeguard confidential information and protect our intellectual property; manage organizational complexity and communication; and execute, maintain and adjust the operational and financial controls that support our business. While we intend to continue to focus on managing our costs and expenses, we expect to invest to support our growth and may have additional unexpected costs. Such investments take time to become fully operational, and we may not be able to expand quickly enough to exploit targeted market opportunities. In connection with our efforts to cost-effectively manage our growth, we have increasingly relied on contractors for production capacity, logistics support and certain administrative functions including hosting of certain information technology software applications. If our contract manufacturers (including those at which we maintain captive lines) or other service providers do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and may incur additional costs to correct errors or fulfill customer demand. Depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies, the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, or an impact on employee morale. Our operations may also be negatively impacted if any of these contract manufacturers or other service providers do not have the financial capability to meet our growing needs. There are also inherent execution risks in starting up a new factory or expanding production capacity, whether one of our own factories or that of our contract manufacturers, as well as risks to moving production to different contract manufacturers, that could increase costs and reduce our operating results. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022, we opened the Mohawk Valley Fab to complement the materials factory expansion underway at our United States campus headquarters in Durham, North Carolina and the Mohawk Valley Fab began revenue production in late fiscal 2023. We also commenced work on our new materials manufacturing facility in Siler City, North Carolina in the first quarter of fiscal 2023. In addition, we purchased and began renovating an existing epitaxy facility in Farmers Branch, Texas in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023. The establishment and operation of a new manufacturing facility or expansion of an existing facility involves significant risks and challenges, some of which we have experienced and may experience in the future, including, but not limited to, the following: design and construction delays and cost overruns; issues in installing and qualifying new equipment and ramping production; poor production process yields and reduced quality control; and insufficient personnel with requisite expertise and experience to operate an automated silicon carbide device fabrication facility and a materials manufacturing facility. 12 Table of Contents We are also increasingly dependent on information technology to enable us to improve the effectiveness of our operations and to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency. Allocation and effective management of the resources necessary to successfully implement, integrate, train personnel and sustain our information technology platforms will remain critical to ensuring that we are not subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, loss of customers or suppliers, business disruptions or loss of or damage to intellectual property through a security breach in the near term. Additionally, we face these same risks if we fail to allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build, implement, upgrade, integrate and sustain appropriate technology infrastructure over the longer term. Our results of operations, financial condition and business could be harmed if we are unable to balance customer demand and capacity. As customer demand for our products changes, we must be able to adjust our production capacity to meet demand. We are continually taking steps to address our manufacturing capacity needs for our products. Currently, we are focusing on increasing production capacity that utilizes 200mm substrates. If we are not able to increase our production capacity at our targeted rate, if there are unforeseen costs associated with increasing our capacity levels, or if we are unable to obtain advanced semiconductor manufacturing equipment in a timely manner, we may not be able to achieve our financial targets. We may be unable to build or qualify new capacity on a timely basis to meet customer demand and customers may fulfill their orders with one of our competitors instead. In addition, as we introduce new products and change product generations, we must balance the production and inventory of prior generation products with the production and inventory of new generation products, whether manufactured by us or our contract manufacturers, to maintain a product mix that will satisfy customer demand and mitigate the risk of incurring cost write-downs on the previous generation products, related raw materials and tooling. Significant or prolonged shortages or delivery delays of our products to our customers could delay their manufacturing and negatively impact our relationships with these customers, including triggering the potential payment of penalties on certain agreements. Due to the proportionately high fixed cost nature of our business (such as facility costs), if demand does not materialize at the rate forecasted, we may not be able to scale back our manufacturing expenses or overhead costs quickly enough to correspond to the lower than expected demand. This could result in lower margins and adversely impact our business and results of operations. Additionally, if product demand decreases or if we fail to forecast demand decreases or changes accurately, we may experience a mismatch between current product demand and manufactured product mix, adversely impacting our results, including due to higher costs resulting from lower factory utilization, causing higher fixed costs per unit produced. For example, in fiscal and calendar 2024, we and other semiconductor companies experienced, and have been continuing to experience, softer demand for power products in industrial and energy applications than expected. In response, we adjusted our production mix in our North Carolina fab to manufacture power products for automotive applications, which have higher unit costs in this fab. Changes in product demand from our customers' forecasts may also cause variability in our supply costs if significant adjustments are needed to our forecasted or committed procurement and supply plans. Further, we may be required to recognize impairments on our long-lived assets or recognize excess inventory write-off charges, or excess capacity charges, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. With the opening of the Mohawk Valley Fab, we have experienced and will continue to experience increased pressure on margins during the period when production begins but before the facility is at full utilization, and in the initial periods we expect these underutilization costs will continue to be substantial as we ramp up the facility. Additionally, our large upfront investment in the facility, or any other new facility, to increase capacity does not guarantee we will need the capacity and we may experience lower than expected capacity once the facility is in production, which could result in further margin pressures. In addition, our efforts to improve quoted delivery lead-time performance may result in corresponding reductions in order backlog. A decline in backlog levels could result in more variability and less predictability in our quarter-to-quarter revenue and operating results. Variations in our production could impact our ability to reduce costs and could cause our margins to decline and our operating results to suffer. All of our products are manufactured using technologies that are highly complex. The number of usable items, or yield, from our production processes may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including but not limited to the following: variability in our process repeatability and control; contamination of the manufacturing environment; equipment failure, power outages, fires, flooding, information or other system failures or variations in the manufacturing process, such as the equipment incident we experienced in our Durham fab in late fiscal 2024; lack of consistency and adequate quality and quantity of piece parts, other raw materials and other bill of materials items; inventory shrinkage or human errors; 13 Table of Contents defects in production processes (including system assembly) either within our facilities or at our suppliers; and any transitions or changes in our production process, planned or unplanned. In the past, we have experienced difficulties in achieving acceptable yields on certain products, which has adversely affected our operating results. We may experience similar problems in the future, and we cannot predict when they may occur or their severity. In some instances, we may offer products for future delivery at prices based on planned yield improvements or increased cost efficiencies from other production advances. Failure to achieve these planned improvements or advances could have a significant impact on our margins and operating results. In addition, our ability to convert volume manufacturing to larger diameter substrates is an important factor in providing a more cost-effective manufacturing process. We continue to prepare for production using 200mm substrates and if we are unable to make this transition in a timely or cost-effective manner, our results could be negatively impacted. Our operating results are substantially dependent on the acceptance of new products. Our future success may depend on our ability to deliver new, higher performing and/or lower cost solutions for existing and new markets and for customers to accept those solutions. The development of new products is a highly complex process, and we have in some instances experienced delays in completing the development, introduction and qualification of new products which has impacted our results in the past. Our research and development efforts are aimed at solving increasingly complex problems, and we do not expect that all our projects will be successful. The successful development, introduction and acceptance of new products depend on a number of factors, including the following: qualification and acceptance of our new product and systems designs, specifically entering into automotive applications which require even more stringent levels of qualification and standards; our customers ability to develop competitive products incorporating our products; market acceptance of our products and our customers products; our ability to effectively transfer increasingly complex products and technology from development to manufacturing, including the transition to 200mm substrates; our ability to introduce new products in a timely and cost-effective manner; achievement of technology breakthroughs required to make commercially viable products; our ability to convert customer design-ins to sales of significant volume, and, if customer design-in activity does result in such sales, when such sales will ultimately occur and what the amount of such sales will be; the accuracy of our predictions for market requirements; our ability to predict, influence and/or react to evolving standards; acceptance of new technology in certain markets; our ability to protect intellectual property developed in new products; the availability of qualified research and development personnel; our timely completion of product designs and development; our ability to develop repeatable processes to manufacture new products in sufficient quantities, with the desired specifications and at competitive costs; and our ability to secure volume purchase orders related to new products. If any of these or other similar factors becomes problematic, we may not be able to deliver and introduce new products in a timely or cost-effective manner. We face risks relating to our suppliers, including that we rely on a number of key sole source and limited source suppliers, are subject to high price volatility on certain commodity inputs, variations in parts quality, and raw material consistency and availability, and rely on independent shipping companies for delivery of our products. We depend on a number of sole source and limited source suppliers for certain raw materials, components, services and equipment used in manufacturing our products, including key materials and equipment used in critical stages of our manufacturing processes. Although alternative sources generally exist for these items, qualification of many of these alternative sources could take up to six months or longer. Where possible, we attempt to identify and qualify alternative sources for our sole and limited source suppliers. We generally purchase these sole or limited source items with purchase orders, and we have limited guaranteed supply arrangements with such suppliers, including take-or-pay arrangements and capacity reserve deposit agreements. Some of our 14 Table of Contents sources can have variations in attributes and availability which can affect our ability to produce products in sufficient volume or quality. We do not control the time and resources that these suppliers devote to our business, and we cannot be sure that these suppliers will perform their obligations to us. Additionally, general shortages in the marketplace of certain raw materials or key components may adversely impact our business. In the past, we have experienced decreases in our production yields when suppliers have varied from previously agreed upon specifications or made other modifications we did not specify, which impacted our cost of revenue. Additionally, the inability of our suppliers to access capital efficiently could cause disruptions in their businesses, thereby negatively impacting ours. This risk may increase from unpredictable and unstable changes in economic conditions, including recession, inflation, or other changes, which may negatively affect key suppliers or a significant number of our other suppliers. Any delay in product delivery or other interruption or variation in supply from these suppliers could prevent us from meeting commercial demand for our products. If we were to lose key suppliers, if our key suppliers were unable to support our demand for any reason or if we were unable to identify and qualify alternative suppliers, our manufacturing operations could be interrupted or hampered significantly. We rely on arrangements with independent shipping companies for the delivery of our products from vendors and to customers both in the United States and abroad. The failure or inability of these shipping companies to deliver products or the unavailability of shipping or port services, even temporarily, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may also be adversely affected by an increase in freight surcharges due to rising fuel costs, oil costs and added security. In our fabrication process, we consume a number of precious metals and other commodities, which are subject to high price volatility and the potential impacts of increased inflation. Our operating margins could be significantly affected if we are not able to pass along price increases to our customers. In addition, production could be disrupted by the unavailability of the resources used in production such as water, silicon, electricity and gases. Future environmental regulations could restrict supply or increase the cost of certain of those materials. We operate in industries that are subject to significant fluctuation in supply and demand and ultimately pricing, which affects our revenue and profitability. The industries we serve are in different stages of adoption and are characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards and fluctuations in product supply and demand. The semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid technological change, high capital expenditures, short product life cycles and continuous advancements in process technologies and manufacturing facilities. As the markets for our products mature, additional fluctuations may result from variability and consolidations within the industrys customer base. These fluctuations have been characterized by lower product demand, production overcapacity, higher inventory levels and aggressive pricing actions by our competitors. These fluctuations have also been characterized by higher demand for key components and equipment used in, or in the manufacture of, our products resulting in longer lead times, supply delays and production disruptions. We have experienced these conditions in our business and may experience such conditions in the future, which could have a material negative impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, as we diversify our product offerings and as pricing differences in the average selling prices among our product lines widen, a change in the mix of sales among our product lines may increase volatility in our revenue and gross margin from period to period. If we are unable to effectively develop, manage and expand our sales channels for our products, our operating results may suffer. We sell a portion of our products to distributors, including a distributor that represented more than 10% of our revenue in fiscal 2024. We rely on distributors to develop and expand their customer base as well as to anticipate demand from their customers. If they are not successful, our growth and profitability may be adversely impacted. Distributors must balance the need to have enough products in stock in order to meet their customers needs against their internal target inventory levels and the risk of potential inventory obsolescence. The risks of inventory obsolescence are especially relevant to technological products. The distributors internal target inventory levels vary depending on market cycles and a number of factors within each distributor over which we have very little, if any, control. Distributors also have the ability to shift business to different manufacturers within their product portfolio based on a number of factors, including new product availability and performance. Similarly, we have the ability to add, consolidate, or remove distributors. We typically recognize revenue on products sold to distributors when an item is shipped and title passes to the distributor (sell-in method). Certain distributors have limited rights to return inventory under stock rotation programs and have limited price adjustment rights for which we make estimates. We evaluate inventory levels in the distribution channel, current economic trends and other related factors in order to account for these factors in our judgments and estimates. As inventory levels and 15 Table of Contents product return trends change or we make changes to our distributor roster, we may have to revise our estimates and incur additional costs, and our gross margins and operating results could be adversely impacted. We depend on a limited number of customers, including distributors, for a substantial portion of our revenue, and the loss of, or a significant reduction in purchases by, one or more of these customers could adversely affect our operating results. We receive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers and distributors, two of which individually represented more than 10% of our consolidated revenue in fiscal 2024. Many of our customer orders are made on a purchase order basis, which does not generally require any long-term customer commitments. Therefore, these customers may alter their purchasing behavior with little or no notice to us for various reasons, including developing, or, in the case of our distributors, their customers developing, their own product solutions; choosing to purchase or distribute product from our competitors; incorrectly forecasting end market demand for their products; or experiencing a reduction in their market share in the markets for which they purchase our products. If our customers alter their purchasing behavior, if our customers purchasing behavior does not match our expectations or if we encounter any problems collecting amounts due from them, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and have evolving technical requirements. The markets for our products are highly competitive. In the semiconductor market, we compete with companies that have greater market share, name recognition, distribution and sales channels, and/or technical resources than we do. Competitors continue to offer new products with aggressive pricing, additional features and improved performance. Aggressive pricing actions by our competitors in our businesses could reduce margins if we are not able to reduce costs at an equal or greater rate than the sales price decline. As competition increases, we need to continue to develop new products that meet or exceed the needs of our customers. Therefore, our ability to continually produce more efficient and lower cost power and materials products that meet the evolving needs of our customers will be critical to our success. Competitors may also try to align with some of our strategic customers. This could lead to lower prices for our products, reduced demand for our products and a corresponding reduction in our ability to recover development, engineering and manufacturing costs. Any of these developments could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our revenue is highly dependent on our customers ability to produce, market and sell more integrated products. Our revenue depends on getting our products designed into a larger number of our customers products and in turn, our customers ability to produce, market and sell their products. For example, we have current and prospective customers that create, or plan to create, power products or systems using our substrates, die, components or modules. Even if our customers are able to develop and produce products or systems that incorporate our substrates, die, components or modules, there can be no assurance that our customers will be successful in marketing and selling these products or systems in the marketplace. Our results may be negatively impacted if customers do not maintain their favorable perception of our brands and products. Maintaining and continually enhancing the value of our brands is critical to the success of our business. Brand value is based in large part on customer perceptions. Success in promoting and enhancing brand value depends in large part on our ability to provide high-quality products. Brand value could diminish significantly due to a number of factors, including adverse publicity about our products (whether valid or not), a failure to maintain the quality of our products (whether perceived or real), the failure of our products to deliver consistently positive consumer experiences, the products becoming unavailable to consumers or consumer perception that we have acted in an irresponsible manner. Damage to our brand, reputation or loss of customer confidence in our brand or products could result in decreased demand for our products and have a negative impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. If our products fail to perform or fail to meet customer requirements or expectations, we could incur significant additional costs, including costs associated with the recall of those items. The manufacture of our products involves highly complex processes. Our customers specify quality, performance and reliability standards that we must meet. If our products do not meet these standards, we may be required to replace or rework the products. In some cases, our products may contain undetected defects or flaws that only become evident after shipment and installation. Even if our products meet standard specifications, our customers may attempt to use our products in applications for which they were not designed or in products that were not designed or manufactured properly, resulting in product failures and creating customer satisfaction issues. We have experienced product quality, performance or reliability problems from time to time and defects or failures may occur in the future. If failures or defects occur, they could result in significant losses or product recalls. A significant product recall 16 Table of Contents could also result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation and a loss of customer confidence in our products. We also may be the target of product liability lawsuits against us if the use of our products at issue is determined to have caused injury or contained a substantial product hazard. We provide standard warranty periods of 90 days on our products, with longer periods under a limited number of customer contracts. Although we believe our reserves are appropriate, we are making projections about the future reliability of new products and technologies, and we may experience increased variability in warranty claims. Increased warranty claims could result in significant losses due to a rise in warranty expense and costs associated with customer support. As a result of our continued expansion into new markets, we may compete with existing customers who may reduce their orders. We continue to expand into new markets and new market segments. Many of our existing customers who purchase our silicon carbide substrate materials develop and manufacture devices, die and components using those wafers that are offered in the same power market. As a result, some of our current customers perceive us as a competitor in these market segments. In response, our customers may reduce or discontinue their orders for our substrate materials. This reduction in or discontinuation of orders could occur faster than our sales growth in these new markets, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Risks associated with our strategic transactions If we fail to evaluate and execute strategic opportunities successfully, our business may suffer. From time to time, including the present, we evaluate strategic opportunities available to us for product, technology or business transactions, such as business acquisitions, investments or capacity expansions, joint ventures, divestitures, or spin-offs. If we choose to enter into such strategic transactions, we face certain risks including: the inability to realize the expected benefits, both from a timing and amount perspective, from our ongoing and planned capacity expansions, including the construction of a new materials manufacturing facility in Siler City, North Carolina, the planned construction of a new 200mm capable silicon carbide device fabrication facility in Saarland, Germany and the renovation of an epitaxy facility in Farmers Branch, Texas; the failure of an acquired business, investee or joint venture to meet our performance and financial expectations; identification of additional liabilities relating to an acquired business; loss of customers due to perceived conflicts or competition with such customers or due to regulatory actions taken by governmental agencies; that we are not able to enter into acceptable contractual arrangements in connection with the transaction; difficulty integrating an acquired business's operations, personnel and financial and operating systems into our current business; that we are not able to develop and expand customer bases and accurately anticipate demand from end customers, which can result in increased inventory and reduced orders if we experience wide fluctuations in supply and demand; diversion of management's attention; difficulty separating the operations, personnel and financial and operating systems of a spin-off or divestiture from our current business; the possibility we are unable to complete the transaction and expend substantial resources without achieving the desired benefit; the inability to obtain required regulatory agency approvals; reliance on a transaction counterparty for transition services for an extended period of time, which may result in additional expenses and delay the integration of the acquired business and realization of the desired benefit of the transaction; uncertainty of the financial markets or circumstances that cause conditions that are less favorable and/or different than expected; and expenses incurred to complete a transaction may be significantly higher than anticipated. We may not be able to adequately address these risks or any other problems that arise from our prior or future acquisitions, investments, joint ventures, divestitures or spin-offs. Any failure to successfully evaluate strategic opportunities and address risks or other problems that arise related to any such business transaction could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. 17 Table of Contents We are subject to a number of risks associated with the sale of our former RF Business, and these risks could adversely impact our operations, financial condition and business. On December 2, 2023, we completed the sale of the RF Business to MACOM Technology Solutions Holdings, Inc. (MACOM) pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement dated August 22, 2023 (the RF Purchase Agreement). We are subject to a number of risks associated with this transaction, including risks associated with: issues, delays or complications in completing required transition activities to allow the RF Business to operate under MACOM, including incurring unanticipated costs to complete such activities; the diversion of our management's attention away from the operation of the business we retained; the restrictions on and obligations with respect to our business set forth in the RF master supply agreement and the transition services agreement, in each case between us and MACOM; the need to provide transition services in connection with the transaction; any required payments of indemnification obligations under the RF Purchase Agreement for retained liabilities and breaches of representations, warranties or covenants; and our failure to realize the full purchase price anticipated under the RF Purchase Agreement, including due to fluctuations in the market price of MACOMs common stock before we are able to sell the shares received as partial consideration for the RF Business (the MACOM Shares) following MACOM's assumption of control of the Company's 100mm GaN wafer fabrication facility in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, approximately two years following the closing of the transaction (the RTP Fab Transfer) and/or the forfeiture of one-quarter of the MACOM Shares in the event that the RTP Fab Transfer is not completed within four years following the closing of the transaction. As a result of these risks, we may be unable to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction, including the total amount of cash we expect to realize. Our failure to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction would adversely impact our operations, financial condition and business and could limit our ability to pursue additional strategic transactions. We are subject to risks associated with the sale of our former Lighting Products and LED Products business units, and these risks could adversely impact our financial condition. On May 13, 2019, we closed the sale of our former Lighting Products business unit to IDEAL Industries, Inc. (IDEAL) and on March 1, 2021, we completed the sale of our former LED Products business unit (the LED Business) to SMART Global Holdings, Inc. (SGH). We are subject to risks associated with these transactions, including risks associated with any required payments of indemnification obligations under the Purchase Agreement with IDEAL and the Asset Purchase Agreement with SGH for retained liabilities and breaches of representations, warranties or covenants. As a result, we may be unable to realize the anticipated benefits of these transactions. Our failure to realize the anticipated benefits of these transactions would adversely impact our financial condition and could limit our ability to pursue additional strategic transactions. Risks associated with cybersecurity, intellectual property and litigation We may be subject to confidential information theft or misuse, which could harm our business and results of operations. We face attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems on which we maintain proprietary and other confidential information and such attempts may increase in terms of frequency and severity in light of the sanctions imposed on Russia in response to its invasion of Ukraine. Our security measures may be breached as the result of industrial or other espionage actions of outside parties, employees, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and as a result, an unauthorized party may obtain access to our systems. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber-attacks, ransomware, or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments, and cyber terrorists, has generally increased as cyber-attacks have become more prevalent and harder to detect and fight against. Additionally, outside parties may attempt to access our confidential information through other means, for example by fraudulently inducing our employees to disclose confidential information. We actively seek to prevent, detect and investigate any unauthorized access, which sometimes occurs and is usually not recognized until after it has occurred. To date, we do not believe that such unauthorized access has caused us any material damage. We might be unaware of any such access or unable to determine its magnitude and effects. We are also at risk of security breaches and disruptions occurring at third parties that we work with, including our customers and suppliers. In addition, these threats are constantly evolving, thereby increasing the difficulty of successfully defending against them or implementing adequate preventative measures. The theft and/or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information as a result of such an incident could adversely affect our competitive position, result in a loss of confidence in the adequacy of our threat mitigation and detection processes and 18 Table of Contents procedures, cause us to incur significant costs to remedy the damage caused by the incident, divert management's attention and other resources, and reduce the value of our investment in research and development. In addition, the increased prevalence of employees working from home may exacerbate the aforementioned cybersecurity risks. Our business could be subject to significant disruption and we could suffer monetary or other losses. Our disclosure