Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of this Annual Report. Sales and Marketing We have continued to optimize our sales, marketing and technical applications support functions, as well as expand our distribution capabilities to further enable new and existing customers to design and implement our silicon carbide and power technology into their products. Our sales, marketing and technical applications teams include personnel throughout North America, Asia and Europe. Customers We had two customers during each of fiscal 2025, 2024 and 2023 that each represented more than 10% of our consolidated revenue. These customers, in the aggregate, accounted for 37%, 37% and 36% of our total consolidated revenue in fiscal 2025, 2024 and 2023, respectively. For further discussion regarding customer concentration, please see Note 15, Concentrations of Credit Risk, in our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report. The loss of any large customer, including as a result of negative perceptions about Wolfspeed in connection with the Chapter 11 Cases, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 7 Table of Contents Distribution A portion of our products are sold to distributors. Distributors stock inventory and sell our products to their own customer base, which may include value added resellers, manufacturers who incorporate our products into their own manufactured goods and ultimate end users of our products. We also utilize third-party sales representatives who generally do not maintain a product inventory; instead, their customers place orders directly with us or through distributors. Design-ins Design-ins are customer commitments to purchase our products and are one of the factors we use to forecast long-term demand and future revenue. To meet the qualification of a design-in, the customer provides us with documentation (e.g., a letter of intent, statement of work or developmental contract) that can include details such as the expected delivery timeline, estimated price, necessary capacity and required support. A design-in, even with a formal commitment, does not always convert to future revenue (a "design-win") for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, the customer delaying or abandoning the project, capacity constraints, timeline challenges, and/or technology changes. Therefore, management uses the design-in amount as a guide to forecast future demand but it should not be taken as an absolute indicator of future revenue. Design-wins Design-ins are considered design-wins when a customer issues a purchase order for at least 20% of the expected first year revenue attributed to such customer. Design-wins reflect each project's entire commitment at the time this criterion is satisfied and should not be taken as an absolute indicator of future revenue. Depending on timing, certain projects may be reflected within a single period's design-in and design-win figures. Design-wins for fiscal 2025 and the fourth quarter of fiscal 2025 were the second highest design-wins for a fiscal year and fiscal fourth quarter in company history, respectively. Manufacturing We manufacture silicon carbide substrates, silicon carbide MOSFETs and Schottky diodes and power modules. We utilize manufacturing facilities located in the United States in combination with assembly and test subcontractors throughout Asia. Manufacturing assets are managed together through one centralized organization to ensure we leverage scale in asset utilization, purchasing volumes, and overhead costs across the business. During fiscal 2025, we accelerated the transition of our production capacity from 150mm to 200mm offerings including the substantial completion of the initial phase of our major expansion projects and the planned closure of our 150mm device fabrication facility in Durham, North Carolina. Silicon carbide substrate manufacturing occurs in our materials facility and involves production of a bare wafer substrate with or without epitaxy. Our front-end processes occur in manufacturing facilities called "wafer fabs". These processes involve several hundred manufacturing steps required for imprinting silicon carbide wafers with the precise circuitry required for semiconductor devices to function. Back-end processes include the assembly, test and packaging of semiconductors to make them suitable for use and sale. Yields in our manufacturing process can vary and are dependent upon multiple factors including product complexity and performance requirements as well as the maturity of the process. In order to maximize both yield and quality, we maintain a robust process design that includes in-line process monitoring and testing. Our substrate and wafer fab manufacturing facilities are certified to ISO 9001, IATF 16949, and ISO 14001. Our silicon carbide device fabrication facility in Marcy, New York (the Mohawk Valley Fab) is certified to LEEDSilver, ISO 9001 and IATF 16949 and is in the process of being certified for ISO 14001 and ISO 45001. ISO 9001 is the international standard that specifies requirements for a quality management system and focuses on the ability to consistently provide products and services that meet customer requirements. IATF 16949 is the highest international quality standard for the automotive industry. ISO 14001 is an internationally agreed upon standard for an environmental management system. ISO 45001 is the international standard that specifies requirements for an occupational health and safety ("OH&S") management system. It provides a framework for organizations to manage risks and improve OH&S performance. Sources of Raw Materials We depend on a number of suppliers for certain raw materials, components and equipment used in manufacturing our products, including certain key materials and equipment used in critical stages of our manufacturing processes. In select cases, we have purchase contracts with suppliers in place to help ensure our supply. In other cases, we purchase items pursuant to discrete purchase orders. Our suppliers are located around the world and can be subject to constraints beyond our control that may limit supply. We believe our current supply of essential materials is sufficient to meet our needs. However, shortages have occurred from time to time and could occur again. 8 Table of Contents We are focused on forecasting demand with sufficient time necessary to secure raw materials that may have extended lead times and we continue to work with suppliers to develop purchase and capacity agreements that secure supply over extended time periods, including accommodating our suppliers' need for capital investment when needed. We continue to experience higher prices on our raw materials as a result of tariffs and inflation pressures, including base price increases and price surcharges. We have mitigated these increases by leveraging our growth to negotiate efficiencies and productivity-based cost reductions. We believe our operations are currently not materially impacted by our ability to source raw materials, components and equipment used in manufacturing our products. Competition Silicon Carbide and GaN Materials We have continued to maintain a well-established leadership position in the sale of silicon carbide wafer and silicon carbide and GaN epitaxy products. As market adoption of the technology grows with rapidly expanding power device designs, we have experienced increased competition from companies such as Coherent, Inc., SiCrystal GmbH, IQE plc, and Resonac Holdings Corporation in the United States, Europe and Japan. In China, we have observed increased competition from companies such as SICC Co., Ltd., TanKeBlue Semiconductor Co., Ltd and EpiWorld International Co., Ltd. We believe our leading technology and leveraged production scale position us to reliably supply production volumes to the device manufacturers in the market. Power Devices Our silicon carbide power devices compete with silicon carbide power semiconductor solutions offered by Infineon Technologies AG, ON Semiconductor Corporation, Rohm Co. Ltd., ST Microelectronics N.V., Bosch, San'an Optoelectronics Co., Silan Microelectronics Co. Ltd., and SiChain Semiconductor, as well as an increasing number of smaller competitors. Our silicon carbide products also compete with silicon semiconductor devices offered by a variety of manufacturers. Our power products compete in the power semiconductor market on the basis of performance, reliability and overall system price. Patents and Other Intellectual Property Rights We believe it is important to protect our investment in technology by obtaining and enforcing intellectual property rights, including rights under patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright laws. We seek to protect inventions we consider significant by applying for patents in the United States and other countries when appropriate. We have also acquired, through license grants, purchases and assignments, rights to patents on inventions originally developed by others. As of June 29, 2025, we owned or were the exclusive licensee of 532 issued United States patents and approximately 993 foreign patents with various expiration dates extending up to 2049, with certain patents expiring in the near term. We do not consider our business to be materially dependent upon any one patent, and we believe our business will not be materially adversely affected by the expiration of any one patent. For proprietary technology that is not patented, we generally seek to protect the technology and related know-how and information as trade secrets by keeping confidential the information that we believe provides us with a competitive advantage. We attempt to create strong brands for our products and promote our products through trademarks that distinguish them in the market. We may license to our customers use of our trademarks in connection with the sale of our products, and we monitor for the proper and authorized use of our trademarks. Licensing activities and lawsuits to enforce intellectual property rights, particularly patent rights, are a common aspect of the semiconductor industry, and we attempt to ensure respect for our intellectual property rights through appropriate actions. The breadth of our intellectual property rights and the extent to which they can be successfully enforced varies across jurisdictions. We both make and receive inquiries regarding possible patent infringements and possible violations of other intellectual property rights in the normal course of business. Depending on the circumstances, we may seek to negotiate a license or other acceptable resolution. If we are unable to achieve a resolution by agreement, we may seek to enforce our rights or defend our position through litigation. Patent litigation in particular is expensive and the outcome is often uncertain. We believe that the strength of our portfolio of patent rights is important in helping us resolve or avoid such disputes with other companies in our industry. 9 Table of Contents Governmental Regulation We are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign provisions regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. These include statutory and regulatory provisions under which we are responsible for the management of hazardous materials we use and the disposition of hazardous wastes resulting from our manufacturing processes. Failure to comply with such provisions could result in fines and other liabilities to the government or third parties, injunctions requiring us to suspend or curtail operations or other remedies, and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Increasing public attention has been focused on the environmental impact of semiconductor manufacturing operations. We, along with the rest of the semiconductor industry, are subject to variable interpretations and governmental priorities concerning environmental laws and regulations. We endorse and adhere to Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) standards for all our sites. It is our EHS goal to design and develop products safely, that realize energy efficiency, minimize environmental impacts, and have sustainable life cycles. In this manner, we are striving to continuously improve our EHS performance and reduce the overall impacts of our manufacturing processes. To further ensure that we can implement such standards, we are dedicated to: providing a safe and healthy work environment for our employees; complying with regulatory and other requirements; using natural resources, energy, and materials efficiently; substituting sustainable resources in place of non-renewable resources; reusing or recycling materials wherever technically possible and economically reasonable; minimizing waste and disposing of waste safely and responsibly; sourcing raw material responsibly; implementing specific measures to prevent and minimize hazards to humans; and the environment including pollution prevention; and consulting with and encouraging the participation of workers and workers representatives, as applicable. Our EHS management systems in our manufacturing facilities in Durham and Research Triangle Park, North Carolina are certified to ISO 14001:2015 for environmental management. The benefits of implementing environmental and safety management systems include improved risk management, cost savings, meeting external stakeholder expectations, ensuring compliance with environmental and occupational safety laws, and decreasing our environmental footprint through discovering new possibilities for energy, water and waste usage reductions. We are also subject to import-export controls, tariffs and other trade-related regulations and restrictions in countries in which we have operations or otherwise do business. These controls, tariffs, regulations, and restrictions may have a material impact on our business, including our ability to sell products and to manufacture or source components. Working Capital For a discussion of our working capital practices, see Liquidity and Capital Resources in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," of this Annual Report. Human Capital Employees As of June 29, 2025, we employed 3,434 regular full and part-time employees. We also employ individuals on a temporary full-time basis and use the services of contractors as necessary. Certain employees in various countries outside of the United States are subject to laws providing representation rights. 10 Table of Contents Employee Retention and Development We believe that our future success largely depends upon our continued ability to identify, attract, motivate and retain qualified personnel. Core to our ability to attract and retain talent is our high-performance culture, which is based on our three central values of (1) safety, integrity and respect, (2) ownership and accountability, and (3) ingenuity and passion. We are committed to creating and sustaining a culture where all employees are engaged and can contribute to their full potential. We aim to provide our employees with competitive compensation, as well as opportunities for equity ownership and developmental programs that enable continued learning and growth. We endeavor to utilize recruiting practices that yield qualified and dedicated employees who are driven to achieve our vision. We are committed to offering an environment in which employees are ensured equal job opportunities and have a chance for advancement. We also have initiatives in place to reduce our global employee turnover rates, which are monitored and reviewed quarterly. Our goal is to ensure employees can find development and career growth without having to leave Wolfspeed. During the first quarter of 2025, we initiated a headcount reduction and facility closure and consolidation plan. Please refer to Item II, Part 8, Note 16 - "Restructuring" to our consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report for additional information. Compensation and Benefits We are focused on offering competitive compensation and comprehensive benefit packages designed to promote the physical and emotional well-being and financial health of our employees. In addition to base pay, our total compensation package includes items such as bonuses, stock-based compensation and employee referral bonuses. Our benefits package includes employee learnings, health and welfare, tuition reimbursement, student loan repayment, several wellness and emotional support options and adoption assistance. Additionally, we sponsor a 401(k) employee benefit plan for our United States based employees and we match a defined percentage of employee contributions. Health and Safety The safety, health, and overall well-being of our employees and contractors is integrated into the way we do business. We aim to provide a safe and healthy work environment through various measures, including accountability for health and safety performance with line management, setting acceptable levels of risk based on government regulation or industry best practice, and evaluating health and safety incidents to prevent recurrence, among other programs. Culture and Community Wolfspeed strives to foster an inclusive and engaged workplace culture where every employee feels valued, respected, and empowered to thrive. By building a strong sense of community where employees feel connected and supported, we aim to enhance collaboration and innovation, enabling employees to show up each day to do their best and most productive work. We believe this allows Wolfspeed to solve problems that other companies think to be impossible, helping to drive better business results. Available Information Our website address is www.wolfspeed.com and our investor relations website is located at https://investor.wolfspeed.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, statements of changes in beneficial ownership and amendments to those reports are available for free on our investor relations website as soon as reasonably practicable after these are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The contents of our website, including our investor relations website, are not incorporated by reference into this filing or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC. We have no duty to update or revise any forward-looking statements in this Annual Report or in other reports filed with the SEC, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, unless we are required to do so by law. The SEC maintains a website ("www.sec.gov") that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Item 1A. Risk Factors Described below are various risks and uncertainties that may affect our business. If any of the risks described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents Risk categories and certain principal risks under each category include (each described more fully below): Risks related to our Chapter 11 Cases We are subject to risks and uncertainties associated with our Chapter 11 Cases. We may not be able to obtain confirmation of the Plan as outlined in the Restructuring Support Agreement. If the Restructuring Support Agreement is terminated, our ability to confirm and consummate the Plan could be materially and adversely affected. The Restructuring Support Agreement is subject to significant conditions and milestones that may be difficult for us to satisfy. Trading in our securities during the pendency of our Chapter 11 Cases is highly speculative and poses substantial risks. If the Plan becomes effective, the ownership interest of holders of our existing common stock will be substantially diluted. Following the effectiveness of the Plan, certain Consenting Convertible Noteholders and Renesas, if they choose to act together, will have the ability to significantly influence all matters submitted to shareholders of the reorganized company for approval. Our business could suffer from a long and protracted restructuring. As a result of the Chapter 11 Cases, our historical financial information will not be indicative of our future performance. The Chapter 11 Cases raise substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. Our planned Reincorporation from the State of North Carolina to the State of Delaware could have significant legal, tax and governance implications for us and our stockholders, could expose us to additional risks and uncertainties and we may not realize the expected benefits of the Reincorporation. We will be required to reduce certain of our tax attributes due to the exclusion of cancellation of indebtedness ("COD") income from gross income upon emergence from the Chapter 11 Cases. Risks related to our global operations, including global macroeconomic and market risks Our business may be adversely affected by the state of the global economy, uncertainties in global financial markets, our ability or our customers' or suppliers' ability to access funding, and the impact of trade tariffs and trade restrictions on the supply chains and global demand for our products or our customers' or suppliers' products. We are subject to risks related to international sales and purchases. Risks related to sales, product development and manufacturing We face significant challenges managing our growth strategy. Our results of operations, financial condition and business could be harmed if we are unable to balance customer demand and capacity. Variations in our production could impact our ability to reduce costs and could cause our margins to decline and our operating results to suffer. Risks associated with our strategic transactions If we fail to evaluate and execute strategic opportunities successfully, our business may suffer. We are subject to a number of risks associated with our restructuring plan, and these risks could impact our operations, financial condition and ability to realize expected cost savings. We are subject to a number of risks associated with the sale of our former Lighting Products, LED Products and RF business units, and these risks could adversely impact our operations, financial condition and business. Risks associated with our capital structure We have outstanding debt which could materially restrict our business and adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Risks associated with cybersecurity, intellectual property and litigation We may be subject to confidential information theft or misuse, which could harm our business and results of operations. There are limitations on our ability to protect our intellectual property. Risks related to legal, regulatory, accounting, tax and compliance matters We and certain of our former executive officers have been named as defendants in securities class action lawsuits. These lawsuits may require significant time and attention from our management and may result in significant legal expenses, which could materially adversely affect our results and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents We may be required to recognize a significant charge to earnings if our assets become impaired. The adoption of or changes in government and/or industry policies, standards or regulations relating to the efficiency, performance, vehicle range or other aspects of our products and the products in which they are utilized could impact the demand for our products. We may be limited in our ability to utilize, or may not be able to utilize, U.S. federal and state net operating loss ("NOL") carryforwards to reduce our future tax liability. General risk factors Risks related to our Chapter 11 Cases We are subject to risks and uncertainties associated with our Chapter 11 Cases. We and our wholly owned subsidiary Wolfspeed Texas LLC have entered into a Restructuring Support Agreement and commenced a voluntary proceeding as the Debtors under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in the Bankruptcy Court. The Restructuring Support Agreement contemplates a comprehensive restructuring of Wolfspeeds funded debt obligations and capital structure to be implemented through the Plan. We plan to continue to operate our business as debtors-in-possession under the jurisdiction of the Bankruptcy Court and in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Bankruptcy Code and orders of the Bankruptcy Court. We have sought and obtained approval of certain first day motions containing customary relief intended to assure our ability to continue our ordinary course operations. The filing of the Chapter 11 Cases could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Our senior management has spent and will continue to spend a significant amount of time and effort focusing on the reorganization instead of focusing exclusively on our business operations. Public reports regarding Wolfspeeds liquidity, execution of the Restructuring Support Agreement, and filing of the Chapter 11 Cases also have made it more difficult to retain management and the key personnel necessary for the success and growth of our business. Furthermore, we may not realize any or all of the intended benefits of the Chapter 11 Cases. Additionally, while we remain subject to the provisions of the Bankruptcy Code in the Chapter 11 Cases, our customers and vendors may lose confidence in our ability to reorganize our business successfully and may seek to establish alternative commercial relationships. Other significant risks also include or relate to the following: our ability to obtain the Bankruptcy Courts approval with respect to motions or other requests made to the Bankruptcy Court in the Chapter 11 Cases, including maintaining strategic control as a debtor-in-possession; the effects of the filing of the Chapter 11 Cases on our business and the interests of various constituents, including our creditors and shareholders; our ability to comply with the milestones set forth in the Restructuring Support Agreement and the Bankruptcy Court's final order authorizing the use of cash collateral; the high costs of the Chapter 11 Cases and related fees; the Bankruptcy Courts rulings and orders in the Chapter 11 Cases, as well as the outcome of all other pending litigation and the outcome of the Chapter 11 Cases in general; the length of time that we anticipate we will operate under the protection and jurisdiction of the Bankruptcy Court and the continued availability of operating capital during the pendency of the proceeding; our ability to negotiate agreements with our creditors to be entered into in connection with the Restructuring Support Agreement and the Plan on favorable terms; third-party motions and objections in the Chapter 11 Cases; potential delisting by the New York Stock Exchange due to the Chapter 11 Cases or the impact to our stock price in connection with the Chapter 11 Cases; limitations on our ability to utilize our NOL carryforwards (and/or certain other tax attributes, excluding certain refundable tax credits such as the AMIC (as defined below)) that are generated before the Plan Effective Date and risks related to an "ownership change" under Section 382 of the Code, including as a result of the transactions contemplated by the Chapter 11 Cases; our ability to continue as a going concern as a result of the Chapter 11 Cases to the extent the Plan is not confirmed; and the potential adverse effects of the Chapter 11 Cases on our liquidity and results of operations. Because of the risks and uncertainties associated with the Chapter 11 Cases, we may not be able to predict or quantify the ultimate impact the Chapter 11 Cases may have on our business, cash flows, liquidity, financial condition, and results of 13 Table of Contents operations, nor can we accurately predict the ultimate impact the Chapter 11 Cases may have on our corporate or capital structure. In addition, while the Chapter 11 Cases are ongoing, certain transactions are subject to the prior approval of the Bankruptcy Court, which may limit our ability to respond in a timely manner to certain events or take advantage of certain opportunities. If the Chapter 11 Cases are not successful, any other strategic options that we would pursue to address the impact of our Senior Secured Notes and Convertible Notes, including any recapitalization, restructuring, reorganization, bankruptcy, or liquidation, may not be successful, and holders of our common stock could be diluted to a greater extent or suffer a total loss of their investment. We may not be able to obtain confirmation of the Plan as outlined in the Restructuring Support Agreement. There can be no assurance that the Plan as outlined in the Restructuring Support Agreement (or any other plan of reorganization) will be approved by the Bankruptcy Court. The success of any reorganization will depend on approval by the Bankruptcy Court and the willingness of existing debt and security holders to agree to the treatment as outlined in the Plan, and there can be no guarantee of success with respect to the Plan or any other plan of reorganization. We cannot predict the impact that any objection to confirmation of the Plan from the various stakeholders in the Chapter 11 Cases might have on the Plan or on a Bankruptcy Court's decision to confirm the Plan. Any objection may cause us to devote significant resources in response that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Additionally, it is possible that an official committee of equity holders is appointed, which could materially impact the length and cost of the Chapter 11 Cases or the ability to consummate the Plan as contemplated in the Restructuring Support Agreement. If the Plan is not confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court, it is unclear whether we would be able to reorganize our business and what, if any, distributions holders of claims against us, including holders of our unsecured debt and equity, as well as holders of the Notes, would ultimately receive with respect to their claims and interests. There can be no assurance as to whether we will successfully reorganize and emerge from Chapter 11 or, if we do successfully reorganize, as to when we would emerge from Chapter 11. If no plan of reorganization can be confirmed, or if the Bankruptcy Court otherwise finds that it would be in the best interest of holders of claims and interests, the Chapter 11 Cases may be converted to a case under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code, pursuant to which a trustee would be appointed or elected to liquidate our assets for distribution in accordance with the priorities established by the Bankruptcy Code, which would provide for different recoveries than those set forth in the Plan. If the Restructuring Support Agreement is terminated, our ability to confirm and consummate the Plan could be materially and adversely affected. The Restructuring Support Agreement contains a number of termination events, upon the occurrence of which certain parties to the Restructuring Support Agreement may terminate the agreement. If the Restructuring Support Agreement is terminated as to all parties thereto, each of the parties will be released from its obligations in accordance with the terms of the Restructuring Support Agreement. Such termination may result in the loss of support for the Plan by the parties to the Restructuring Support Agreement, which could adversely affect our ability to confirm and consummate the Plan. If the Plan is not consummated, there can be no assurance that any new plan would be as favorable to holders of claims against Wolfspeed as contemplated by the Restructuring Support Agreement. The Restructuring Support Agreement is subject to significant conditions and milestones that may be difficult for us to satisfy. There are certain material conditions we must satisfy under the Restructuring Support Agreement, including the timely satisfaction of milestones for the progress of the Chapter 11 Cases, including, among other things, obtaining certain bankruptcy court orders and confirmation of the Plan. See Note 2, "Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies," in our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Our ability to timely complete such milestones is subject to risks and uncertainties that may be beyond our control. Trading in our securities during the pendency of our Chapter 11 Cases is highly speculative and poses substantial risks. If the Plan becomes effective, the ownership interests of holders of our existing common stock will be substantially diluted. Trading prices for our common stock may bear little or no relationship to the actual recovery by holders of the common stock in the Chapter 11 Cases. Additionally, among the customary first-day motions that we filed, the Bankruptcy Court granted our motion for an order establishing certain procedures with respect to trades and transfers of our common stock, including options to acquire beneficial ownership of our common stock. These procedures restrict transactions involving, and require notices of the holdings of and proposed transactions by, any person, group of persons, or entity that is or would become a substantial stockholder, defined as any person or entity that beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, approximately 4.5% or more of our common stock. We cannot assure investors of the liquidity of an active trading market, the ability to sell shares of the common 14 Table of Contents stock when desired, or the prices that an investor may obtain for the shares of the common stock. The Restructuring Support Agreement contemplates the transactions set forth therein to be implemented through the Chapter 11 Cases and the Plan. In connection with the restructuring and subject to the confirmation of the Plan, trade creditors and all other general unsecured creditors will be unimpaired. The Plan, as contemplated by the Restructuring Support Agreement, provides that upon our emergence from Chapter 11, (i) holders of the existing Convertible Notes will receive, among other things, their pro-rata share of 56.3% of the common stock in the reorganized company as of the Plan Effective Date, subject to dilution from other equity issuances, including the conversion of the New 2L Convertible Notes, and the convertible notes and warrants provided to Renesas, (ii) subject to regulatory approvals, Renesas will receive, among other things, (a) 38.7% of the common stock in the reorganized company as of the Plan Effective Date, subject to dilution from other equity issuances, including the conversion of the New 2L Convertible Notes, and the convertible notes and warrants provided to Renesas, (b) warrants to purchase 5% of the common stock in the reorganized company as of the Plan Effective Date (assuming conversion of convertible notes issued to Renesas and all New 2L Convertible Notes), and (c) if certain regulatory approvals have not been obtained prior to the deadline described in the Restructuring Support Agreement, certain contingent consideration, including, among other things, 2.0% of common stock in the reorganized company as of the Plan Effective Date, subject to dilution from other equity issuances, and (iii) that the holders of our existing common stock will receive their pro-rata share of 3 or 5% of the common stock in the reorganized Company as of the Plan Effective Date (depending on whether Renesas obtains certain regulatory approvals), subject to dilution from other equity issuances, including the conversion of the New 2L Convertible Notes, and the convertible notes and warrants provided to Renesas. In addition, if the Plan as contemplated in the Restructuring Support Agreement is consummated, 10% of the common stock outstanding as of the Plan Effective Date (assuming all New 2L Convertible Notes are treated as having converted into shares of New Common Stock on such date and subject to dilution from the conversion of the New 2L Convertible Notes and exercise of warrants issued to Renesas) will be reserved for issuance as awards under a post-restructuring management incentive plan for the benefit of officers and other key employees, including a reserve for initial grants of the New Common Stock under the management incentive plan equivalent to approximately $40 million in value. After the Plan Effective Date, 5% of all issued and outstanding shares of the New Common Stock (assuming all New 2L Convertible Notes are treated as having converted into shares of New Common Stock on such date and subject to dilution from the conversion of the New 2L Convertible Notes and exercise of warrants issued to Renesas) will be reserved for issuance as awards under a post-restructuring long-term incentive plan for the benefit of the broader employee group. Issuances of common stock (or securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock) under the Plan, the management incentive plan, the long-term incentive plan and any exercises of the warrants or conversion rights for shares of common stock will dilute the voting power of the outstanding common stock and may adversely affect the trading price of such common stock. In addition, in connection with the Plan, we are expected to provide Renesas and certain holders of the existing Convertible Notes with certain registration rights with respect to shares of common stock underlying the warrants provided to Renesas and the New 2L Convertible Notes. These registration rights would entitle Renesas and such holders of the existing Convertible Notes to demand that we register the resale of such securities, and would also provide Renesas and such holders with certain piggy-back registration rights with respect to registration statements filed subsequent to the consummation of the Plan. The trading of these additional securities in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. Following the effectiveness of the Plan, certain Consenting Convertible Noteholders and Renesas, if they choose to act together, will have the ability to significantly influence all matters submitted to shareholders of the reorganized company for approval. Certain of the Consenting Convertible Noteholders and Renesas are expected to acquire a significant ownership interest in the common stock of the reorganized company pursuant to the Plan. Such Holders may be in a position to control the outcome of all actions requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, without the approval of other shareholders. This concentration of ownership could also facilitate or hinder a negotiated change of control of the reorganized company and, consequently, have an impact upon the value of the common stock of the reorganized company. The significant ownership stake may allow these Holders to appoint a majority of the board of directors, potentially influencing the company's management and strategic direction. This could lead to changes in corporate governance practices, business strategies, and capital allocation policies that align with the interests of the major shareholders. The concentrated ownership might also affect the liquidity of the common stock of the reorganized company in the market, potentially impacting its trading price and volatility. The interests of these significant Holders may not always align with those of other shareholders or the reorganized company, potentially leading to conflicts in decision-making. Lastly, this ownership structure could either attract potential acquirers due to the ease of negotiating with a small group of major shareholders or deter them if the Holders are not interested in selling their stakes. Our business could suffer from a long and protracted restructuring. Our future results are dependent upon the timely confirmation and consummation of the Plan. A long period of operating under Bankruptcy Court protection could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our financial condition, results of operations, 15 Table of Contents liquidity, and relationships with suppliers, customers, and other counterparties may deteriorate while we are in bankruptcy. Failure to obtain confirmation of a Chapter 11 plan in a timely manner may harm our ability to finance our operations adequately or have continued access to cash collateral, and there is a significant risk that the value of Wolfspeed would be substantially eroded to the detriment of all stakeholders. If the Plan or an alternative Chapter 11 plan that complies with the applicable provisions of the Bankruptcy Code cannot be confirmed, we would have to pursue other strategic options to address the impact of the outstanding Senior Secured Notes and Convertible Notes. Any other strategic option that we pursue, including any recapitalization, restructuring, reorganization, bankruptcy, or liquidation, may not be successful, and holders of our common stock could be diluted to a greater extent or suffer a total loss of their investment. For as long as the Chapter 11 Cases continue, we will be required to incur substantial costs for professional fees and other expenses associated with the administration of the Chapter 11 Cases. If we are unable to continue funding our operations, our chances of successfully reorganizing our business may be seriously jeopardized, increasing the likelihood that we will be required to liquidate our assets, and as a result, our common stock could become further devalued or become worthless. There can be no assurance of whether, or when, we will be able to successfully confirm or implement a Chapter 11 plan, or whether we will be able to do so in a timely fashion. Even if a Chapter 11 plan is confirmed and implemented, our operating results may be adversely affected by the possible reluctance of prospective lenders, suppliers, and other counterparties to do business with a company that recently emerged from bankruptcy proceedings. As a result of the Chapter 11 Cases, our historical financial information will not be indicative of our future performance. During the Chapter 11 Cases, we expect our financial results to continue to be volatile. Further, we anticipate that our capital structure will be significantly altered if and when we are able to emerge from bankruptcy proceedings. As a result, our historical financial performance is likely not indicative of our financial performance after the date of the filing of the Chapter 11 Cases. In addition, if we emerge from Chapter 11, the amounts reported in subsequent consolidated financial statements may materially change relative to our historical consolidated financial statements. We may also be required to adopt fresh start accounting, in which case our assets and liabilities will be recorded at fair value as of the fresh start reporting date, which may differ materially from the recorded values of assets and liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. Our financial results after the application of fresh start accounting may be different from historical trends. We are subject to claims that will not be discharged in the Chapter 11 Cases, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. While certain prepetition litigation claims will be treated as unimpaired 510(b) Claims (as defined in the Plan) during the Chapter 11 Cases, we are involved in certain other litigation, which, so long as it remains unresolved, represents legal issues of uncertain outcome and potential claims for monetary damages. If the outcomes of such litigation are unfavorable, they could have a material impact on our operations and financial health. Additionally, there is a risk of future litigation. In general, litigation can be expensive and time-consuming to bring or defend against. Such litigation could result in settlements or damages that could significantly affect the reorganized companys financial results. It is also possible that certain parties will commence litigation with respect to the treatment of their claims and interests under the Plan. It is not possible to predict what, if any, future litigation the reorganized company may become involved in, nor the final resolution of such litigation. The impact of any such litigation on the reorganized companys businesses and financial stability, however, could be material. The Chapter 11 Cases will consume a substantial portion of the time and attention of our management, which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations, and we may experience increased levels of employee attrition. Our management has spent a significant amount of time and effort focusing on the entry into the Restructuring Support Agreement and the Chapter 11 Cases, and our management will be required to continue to spend significant time and effort focusing on the Chapter 11 Cases and the implementation of the Plan instead of focusing exclusively on our business operations. This diversion of attention may materially adversely affect the conduct of our business, and, as a result, our financial condition and results of operations, particularly if the Chapter 11 Cases are protracted. Furthermore, during the pendency of the Chapter 11 Cases, we may experience increased levels of employee attrition, and our employees may face considerable distraction and uncertainty. A loss of key personnel or material erosion of employee morale could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our ability to engage, motivate, and retain key employees or take other measures intended to incentivize key employees to remain with us through the pendency of the Chapter 11 Cases is limited by restrictions on implementation of incentive programs under the Bankruptcy Code. The loss of services of members of our senior management team could impair our ability to execute our strategy and implement operational initiatives, which would likely have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations. In addition, the longer the Chapter 11 Cases continue, the more likely it is that vendors, sub-contractors, customers and employees will lose confidence in our ability to reorganize our business successfully. 16 Table of Contents Upon our emergence from bankruptcy, if at all, the composition of our board of directors is expected to change. Under the Plan, the composition of our board is expected to change. The composition of the initial board of the reorganized company shall be determined by a selection committee comprised of (i) one member of the existing board of directors, (ii) the Chief Executive Officer, and (iii) three individuals from certain Consenting Creditors. As contemplated by the Plan, Renesas will also have the right to select one member of the board of the reorganized company, subject to receipt of certain regulatory approvals and Renesas holding in the aggregate in excess of 10% of the common stock of the reorganized company. Any new directors are likely to have different backgrounds, experiences, and perspectives from those individuals who currently serve or previously served on the board and thus may have different views on the issues that will determine our future. As a result, our future strategy and plans may differ materially from those of the past. The Chapter 11 Cases raise substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. As a result of the Chapter 11 Cases, our operations and ability to develop and execute our business plan are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Our ability to continue as a going concern is contingent upon, among other things, our ability to, subject to the approval of the Bankruptcy Court, implement a comprehensive restructuring, successfully emerge from the Chapter 11 Cases, and maintain sufficient liquidity following the restructuring to meet our obligations and operating needs. The Plan contemplated by the Restructuring Support Agreement could fail to be confirmed or become effective, or the Bankruptcy Court may grant or deny motions or objections in a manner that is adverse to us and our subsidiaries. Our planned Reincorporation from the State of North Carolina to the State of Delaware could have significant legal, tax, and governance implications for us and our stockholders, could expose us to additional risks and uncertainties and we may not realize the expected benefits of the Reincorporation. Our planned Reincorporation could subject us to different or more stringent corporate governance and disclosure requirements. Delaware law differs from North Carolina law in various respects that could affect the rights and obligations of us and our stockholders. Furthermore, the Reincorporation could involve significant costs, delays, and uncertainties. The Reincorporation is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, such as the consummation of the Plan and the filing of appropriate documents with the North Carolina and Delaware authorities, and the completion of certain corporate formalities. The Reincorporation could also result in litigation or disputes with our stockholders, creditors, regulators, or other parties, which could divert our resources and attention from our core operations. There can be no assurance that the anticipated benefits of the Reincorporation will be achieved. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the Reincorporation is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including factors that we do not and cannot control. If the Reincorporation is not completed successfully or is delayed, we may incur additional expenses, lose potential opportunities, or face adverse consequences for our business and reputation. In addition, if the expected benefits of the Reincorporation do not meet expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock may decline. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve our goals after the Plan is consummated and we emerge from the protection of the Bankruptcy Court. We will continue to face a number of risks, including certain risks that are beyond our control, such as further deterioration or other changes in economic conditions, changes in our industry and potential revaluing of our assets due to the Chapter 11 Cases even after the Plan is consummated. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will achieve our stated goals after consummation of the Plan. Furthermore, we may need to raise funds through public or private debt or equity financing or other various means to fund our business after emergence from the protection of the Bankruptcy Court. We may not be able to obtain sufficient funds when needed or on favorable terms. Our operating results may also be adversely affected by any reluctance of vendors or customers to do business with a company that recently emerged from the protection of the Bankruptcy Court or from any decline in listeners resulting from our operation under new equity ownership. Although our Plan contemplates reducing our overall funded debt, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully meet our debt service costs or our planned continuing obligations after emergence from the protection of the Bankruptcy Court. Any failure to pay our debt service obligations or to obtain cost savings upon emergence could materially impair our ability to operate profitably and result in our inability to continue as a going concern. We will be required to reduce certain of our tax attributes due to the exclusion of COD income from gross income upon emergence from Chapter 11. Generally, any discharge of our debt obligations for an amount less than the debts adjusted issue price will give rise to COD income. Under section 108 of the Code, a taxpayer is required to exclude COD from gross income if the debtor is under the 17 Table of Contents jurisdiction of a court in a case under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code and the discharge of debt occurs pursuant to that proceeding. As a consequence of such an exclusion, a taxpayer generally must reduce certain of its tax attributes by the amount of COD income that it excluded from gross income. U.S. federal income tax attributes subject to reduction generally include (i) NOLs and NOL carryforwards; (ii) general business credit carryovers; (iii) capital loss carryovers; (iv) tax basis in assets; and (v) foreign tax credit carryovers. In connection with the implementation of the Plan, we expect to realize a substantial amount of COD income for U.S. federal income tax purposes and our tax attributes will be subject to the foregoing attribute reduction rules. While the ultimate effect of the attribute reduction is uncertain because, among other things, it will depend on the amount of COD income we realize, loss of these tax attributes may have an adverse effect on our future cash flow. Risks related to our global operations, including global macroeconomic and market risks Our business may be adversely affected by the state of the global economy, uncertainties in global financial markets, our ability or our customers' or suppliers' ability to access funding, and the impact of trade tariffs and trade restrictions on the supply chains and global demand for our products or our customers' or suppliers' products. Our operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic and geopolitical conditions. Uncertainty about global economic conditions could result in customers postponing purchases of our products and services in response to tighter credit, unemployment, negative financial news, higher interest rates and/or declines in income or asset values and other macroeconomic factors, which could have a material negative effect on demand for our products and services and, accordingly, on our business, results of operations or financial condition. For example, current global financial markets continue to reflect uncertainty, including as a result of the ongoing military conflict between Russia and Ukraine and the ongoing conflicts in the Middle East, as well as tariff policies announced by the Trump administration and ongoing trade tensions between certain countries including the United States, the EU and China, which has impacted and could continue to impact demand for our products. Given these uncertainties, there could be further disruptions to the global economy, financial markets and consumer confidence. If economic conditions deteriorate unexpectedly, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The Trump administration is also ending the EV credit and has positioned against solar and other similar projects, which could leverage out some of our technology. For example, our customers, including our distributors and their customers, may experience difficulty obtaining the working capital and other financing necessary to support historical or projected purchasing patterns, which could negatively affect our results of operations. Various global economic slowdowns could occur and potentially result in certain economies dipping into economic recessions, including in the United States. Additionally, increased inflation around the world, including in the United States, applies pressure to our costs. Economic slowdowns or recessions and inflationary pressures could have a negative impact on our business, including decreased demand, increased costs, and other challenges. Government actions to address economic slowdowns and increased inflation, including elevated interest rates, also could result in negative impacts to our growth. In April 2025, the Trump administration announced a baseline tariff of 10% on products from all countries and an additional individualized reciprocal tariff on the countries with which the United States has the largest trade deficits. The Trump administration has announced or imposed additional tariffs on Chinese imports, potentially subject to certain exceptions, prompting announcements of retaliatory tariffs by China on goods from the United States. General trade tensions between the United States and China are expected to continue, and economic and political uncertainty caused by the United States tariffs imposed on goods from China, among other countries, and any corresponding tariffs or currency devaluations from China or such other countries in response, has negatively impacted, and may in the future negatively impact, demand and/or increase the cost for our products. Additionally, Russias invasion of Ukraine in early 2022 triggered significant sanctions from the United States and European countries. Resulting changes in United States trade policy could trigger retaliatory actions by Russia, its allies and other affected countries, including China, resulting in a potential trade war. Furthermore, if the conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and in the Middle East continue for a prolonged period of time, or if other countries, including the United States, become involved in these conflicts, we could face significant adverse effects to our business and financial condition. For example, if our supply or customer arrangements are disrupted due to expanded sanctions or involvement of countries where we have operations or relationships, our business could be materially disrupted. Further, the use of cyberattacks could expand as part of the conflict, which could adversely affect our ability to maintain or enhance our cyber-security and data protection measures. 18 Table of Contents We also face uncertainty in the interpretation of new tariffs and their applicability, including with respect to customs valuation, product classification and country-of-origin determinations. Although we and our vendors seek to comply with applicable customs laws and regulations, the application of rules regarding new tariffs can be subject to varying interpretations or future re-interpretations. It is possible that U.S. Customs and Border Protection or other relevant authorities could, upon review or audit, disagree with the valuation, rules of origin or classification methods applied to certain products. Any such disagreement has in the past and could in the future result in the retroactive assessment of additional duties with interest, the imposition of penalties, or other enforcement actions without the ability to mitigate such penalties, thereby adversely affecting our operations or financial results. Assuming we successfully emerge from the Chapter 11 Cases and implement the Plan, and although we believe we will have adequate liquidity and capital resources to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months, we expect to need additional funding to fully complete all of our intended expansion initiatives, which we may seek to obtain through, among other avenues, federal funding opportunities, equity offerings or other non-debt funding sources, and debt financings (which may involve retiring, refinancing or modifying some of our existing debt). If unfavorable capital market conditions exist, we may not be able to raise sufficient capital or restructure or refinance our outstanding convertible notes on favorable terms and on a timely basis, if at all, which would impact our ability to access federal funding and/or raise additional capital. As discussed in Note 10, "Shareholders' Equity," to our consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report, we sold 27.8 million shares of common stock under the ATM Program, and if we further issue equity or convertible debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing shareholders may experience dilution and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our then-existing shareholders. If we incur additional debt, it may impose financial and operating covenants that could restrict the operations of our business. In a rising interest rate environment, debt financing would become more expensive and could have higher transactional and servicing costs. In addition, our then-existing indebtedness may limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future. The potential inability to obtain adequate funding from debt or capital sources in the future could force us to self-fund strategic initiatives or even forego certain opportunities, which in turn could potentially harm our performance. We are subject to risks related to international sales and purchases. In fiscal 2025, 82% of our revenue was from outside the United States and we expect that revenue from international sales will continue to represent a significant portion of our total revenue. As such, a significant slowdown or instability in relevant foreign economies or lower investments in new infrastructure could have a negative impact on our sales. We also purchase a portion of the materials included in our products from overseas sources. Our international sales and purchases are subject to numerous United States and foreign laws and regulations, including, without limitation, tariffs, trade sanctions, trade barriers, trade embargoes, regulations relating to import-export control, technology transfer restrictions, the International Traffic in Arms Regulation promulgated under the Arms Export Control Act, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the anti-boycott provisions of the United States Export Administration Act. The United States Government has imposed, and in the future may impose, restrictions on shipments to some of our current customers. Government restrictions on sales to certain foreign customers will reduce our revenue and profit related to those customers in the short term and could have a potential long-term impact. Our international sales are subject to variability as our selling prices become less competitive in countries with currencies that are declining in value against the U.S. Dollar and more competitive in countries with currencies that are increasing in value against the U.S. Dollar. In addition, our international purchases can become more expensive if the U.S. Dollar weakens against the foreign currencies in which we are billed. We may in the future enter into foreign currency derivative financial instruments in an effort to manage or hedge some of our foreign exchange rate risk. We may not be able to engage in hedging transactions in the future, and, even if we do, foreign currency fluctuations may still have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our operations in foreign countries expose us to certain risks inherent in doing business internationally, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. We have revenue, operations and contract manufacturing arrangements in foreign countries that expose us to certain risks. For example, fluctuations in exchange rates may affect our revenue, expenses and results of operations as well as the value of our assets and liabilities as reflected in our financial statements. We are also subject to other types of risks of doing business internationally, including the following: protection of intellectual property and trade secrets; tariffs, customs, trade sanctions, trade embargoes and other barriers to importing/exporting materials and products in a cost-effective and timely manner, or changes in applicable tariffs or custom rules, such as tariffs announced by the 19 Table of Contents Trump administration and retaliatory tariffs implemented by other countries in response and the additional customs duties incurred in fiscal 2024 related to our former Lighting Products business unit; the burden of complying with and changes in United States or international taxation policies; timing and availability of export licenses; rising labor costs; disruptions in or inadequate infrastructure of the countries where we operate; the impact of public health epidemics on employees and the global economy; difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; difficulties ensuring compliance with contracts; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; and the burden of complying with foreign and international laws and treaties. For example, the Trump administration has announced an aggressive policy for implementing tariffs, including a baseline tariff of 10% on products from all countries and an additional individualized reciprocal tariff on the countries with which the United States has the largest trade deficits. While most of the initially proposed reciprocal tariffs were suspended while the Trump administration negotiated bilateral trade deals with impacted countries, the United States has since imposed significant tariffs on U.S. trading partners, including China. The tariffs imposed on Chinese goods, among other countries and any corresponding tariffs from China or such other countries in response has negatively impacted, and may in the future negatively impact, demand and/or increase the costs for our products. The volatility and unpredictability of international trade policies and conditions in the current political and international economic environment add further complexity to our operations, making it challenging to forecast and plan effectively. Government incentives may include tax rebates, reduced tax rates, favorable lending policies and other measures, some or all of which may be available to us due to our foreign operations. Any of these incentives could be reduced or eliminated by governmental authorities at any time or as a result of our inability to maintain minimum operations necessary to earn the incentives. Any reduction or elimination of incentives provided for our operations could adversely affect our business and results of operations. These same governments also may provide increased incentives to or require production processes that favor local companies, which could further negatively impact our business and results of operations. Changes in regulatory, geopolitical, social, economic, or monetary policies and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our business in the future or may require us to exit a particular market or significantly modify our current business practices. Abrupt political change, terrorist activity and armed conflict pose a risk of general economic disruption in affected countries, which could also result in an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Risks related to sales, product development and manufacturing We face significant challenges managing our growth strategy. Our potential for growth depends significantly on the adoption of our products within the markets we serve and for other applications, and our ability to affect this rate of adoption. In order to manage our growth and business strategy effectively relative to the uncertain pace of adoption, we must: timely complete the Restructuring contemplated by the Plan and the Chapter 11 Cases to implement the Plan or otherwise address our outstanding indebtedness; maintain, expand, construct and/or purchase adequate manufacturing facilities and equipment, as well as secure sufficient third-party manufacturing resources, including specifically the expansion of our silicon carbide capacity with the ramping of our state-of-the-art, automated 200mm capable silicon carbide device fabrication facility in New York and the ongoing construction of a new materials manufacturing facility in Siler City, North Carolina; receive the expected benefits from the refundable Advanced Manufacturing Investment Credit ("AMIC") under Section 48D of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"); meet our production capacity and delivery commitments to our customers, including those customers who provide us with capacity reservation deposits or similar payments; manage an increasingly complex supply chain and meet purchase commitments under take-or-pay arrangements with certain suppliers that have the ability to supply an increasing number of raw materials, subsystems and finished products with the required specifications and quality, and deliver on time to our manufacturing facilities, our third-party manufacturing facilities, our logistics operations, or our customers; manage the economic conditions around the commodities used in our business; meet the volume and spend requirements for our long term electricity supply agreements; 20 Table of Contents expand the skills and capabilities of our current management team; retain and add experienced senior level managers and executives; attract and retain qualified employees; expand the capability of our information systems to support a more complex business, such as our ongoing implementation of a new company-wide enterprise resource planning ("ERP") system; be successful in securing design-ins across our end markets, including automotive applications; realize our expected local and state government incentives, including capital investment reimbursements, property tax reimbursements and sales tax exemptions from state, county and local governments; continue to pursue potential federal funding opportunities; access capital markets as needed to fund our growth initiatives; safeguard confidential information and protect our intellectual property; manage organizational complexity and communication; and execute, maintain and adjust the operational and financial controls that support our business. While we intend to continue to focus on managing our costs and expenses, we expect to invest to support our growth and may have additional unexpected costs. Such investments take time to become fully operational, and we may not be able to expand quickly enough to exploit targeted market opportunities. In connection with our efforts to cost-effectively manage our growth, we have increasingly relied on contractors for production capacity, logistics support and certain administrative functions including hosting of certain information technology software applications. If our contract manufacturers (including those at which we maintain captive lines) or other service providers do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and may incur additional costs to correct errors or fulfill customer demand. Depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies, the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, or an impact on employee morale. Our operations may also be negatively impacted if any of these contract manufacturers or other service providers do not have the financial capability to meet our growing needs. There are also inherent execution risks in starting up a new factory or expanding production capacity, whether one of our own factories or that of our contract manufacturers, as well as risks to moving production to different contract manufacturers, which could increase costs and reduce our operating results. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022, we opened the Mohawk Valley Fab to complement the materials factory expansion underway at our United States campus headquarters in Durham, North Carolina and the Mohawk Valley Fab began revenue production in late fiscal 2023. We also commenced work on our new materials manufacturing facility in Siler City, North Carolina in the first quarter of fiscal 2023, and the construction of the buildings and critical infrastructure was substantially completed in late fiscal 2025. The establishment and operation of a new manufacturing facility or expansion of an existing facility involves significant risks and challenges, some of which we have experienced and may experience in the future, including, but not limited to, the following: poor production process yields and reduced quality control; insufficient personnel with requisite expertise and experience to operate an automated silicon carbide device fabrication facility and a materials manufacturing facility; and issues in installing new equipment and ramping production; If we receive government incentives through federal funding opportunities, or through state and local grants, the restrictions and operational requirements that are associated with such grants would add complexity to our operations and increase our costs. For example, we have signed a non-binding preliminary memorandum of terms ("PMT") with the Department of Commerce relating to proposed funding under the United States CHIPS and Science Act of 2022 (the "CHIPS Act") to support expansion of our new facilities in North Carolina and New York. The terms for awards of funding under the PMT are preliminary and are subject to a comprehensive due diligence process and continued negotiations. There is uncertainty whether any grant approved by the recently established United States Investment Accelerator office within the Department of Commerce will be on the same or similar terms as the PMT. It is also uncertain how the implementation of the Plan as a result of the Chapter 11 Cases could impact the terms, diligence process and negotiations relating to the PMT or any other potential grant or award, as well as the timing or collectability of amounts due under existing state and local incentives. There can be no assurance that we will conclude grant negotiations or receive the full amount of federal funding set forth in the PMT, if at all. In addition, there is uncertainty regarding the impact of the Trump administration's policies with respect to the semiconductor industry and government funding, tax credits and tariffs. We are also increasingly dependent on information technology to enable us to improve the effectiveness of our operations and to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency. Allocation and effective management of the resources necessary to successfully implement, integrate, train personnel and sustain our information technology platforms will remain critical to ensuring that we are not subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, loss of customers or suppliers, business disruptions or loss of or 21 Table of Contents damage to intellectual property through a security breach in the near term. Additionally, we face these same risks if we fail to allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build, implement, upgrade, integrate and sustain appropriate technology infrastructure over the longer term. Our results of operations, financial condition and business could be harmed if we are unable to balance customer demand and capacity. As customer demand for our products changes, we must be able to adjust our production capacity to meet demand. We are continually taking steps to address our manufacturing capacity needs for our products. Currently, we are focused on the acceleration of the transition of our offerings from 150mm to 200mm substrates. However, if we are not able to increase our production capacity at our targeted rate, if there are unforeseen costs associated with increasing our capacity levels, or if we are unable to obtain advanced semiconductor manufacturing equipment in a timely manner, we may not be able to achieve our financial targets. We may be unable to build or qualify new capacity on a timely basis to meet customer demand and customers may fulfill their orders with one of our competitors instead. In addition, as we introduce new products and change product generations, we must balance the production and inventory of prior generation products with the production and inventory of new generation products, whether manufactured by us or our contract manufacturers, to maintain a product mix that will satisfy customer demand and mitigate the risk of incurring cost write-downs on the previous generation products, related raw materials and tooling. Significant or prolonged shortages or delivery delays of our products to our customers could delay their manufacturing and negatively impact our relationships with these customers, including triggering the potential payment of penalties on certain agreements. Due to the proportionately high fixed cost nature of our business (such as facility costs), if demand does not materialize at the rate forecasted, we may not be able to scale back our manufacturing expenses or overhead costs quickly enough to correspond to the lower than expected demand. This could result in lower margins and adversely impact our business and results of operations. Additionally, if product demand decreases or if we fail to forecast demand decreases or changes accurately, we may experience a mismatch between current product demand and manufactured product mix, adversely impacting our results, including due to higher costs resulting from lower factory utilization, causing higher fixed costs per unit produced. For example, in fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2025, we and other semiconductor companies experienced and have continued to experience softer demand for our products than expected. In response, we adjusted our production mix in our North Carolina fab to manufacture power products for automotive applications, which have higher unit costs in this fab. Changes in product demand from our customers' forecasts may also cause variability in our supply costs if significant adjustments are needed to our forecasted or committed procurement and supply plans. Further, we may be required to recognize impairments on our long-lived assets or recognize excess inventory write-off charges, or excess capacity charges, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. With the opening of the Mohawk Valley Fab, we have experienced and will continue to experience increased pressure on margins during the period when production begins but before the facility is at full utilization, and in the initial periods we expect these underutilization costs will continue to be substantial as we ramp up the facility. Additionally, our large upfront investment in the facility, or any other new facility, to increase capacity does not guarantee we will need the capacity and we may experience lower than expected capacity once the facility is in production, which could result in further margin pressures. In addition, our efforts to improve quoted delivery lead-time performance may result in corresponding reductions in order backlog. A decline in backlog levels could result in more variability and less predictability in our quarter-to-quarter revenue and operating results. Variations in our production could impact our ability to reduce costs and could cause our margins to decline and our operating results to suffer. All of our products are manufactured using technologies that are highly complex. The number of usable items, or yield, from our production processes may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including but not limited to the following: variability in our process repeatability and control; contamination of the manufacturing environment; equipment failure, power outages, fires, flooding, information or other system failures or variations in the manufacturing process, such as the equipment incident we experienced in our Durham fab in late fiscal 2024; lack of consistency and adequate quality and quantity of piece parts, other raw materials and other bill of materials items; inventory shrinkage or human errors; defects in production processes (including system assembly) either within our facilities or at our suppliers; and any transitions or changes in our production process, planned or unplanned. 22 Table of Contents In the past, we have experienced difficulties in achieving acceptable yields on certain products, which has adversely affected our operating results. We may experience similar problems in the future, and we cannot predict when they may occur or their severity. In some instances, we may offer products for future delivery at prices based on planned yield improvements or increased cost efficiencies from other production advances. Failure to achieve these planned improvements or advances could have a significant impact on our margins and operating results. In addition, our ability to convert volume manufacturing to larger diameter substrates is an important factor in providing a more cost-effective manufacturing process. Our operating results are substantially dependent on the acceptance of new products. Our future success may depend on our ability to deliver new, higher performing and/or lower cost solutions for existing and new markets and for customers to accept those solutions. The development of new products is a highly complex process, and we have in some instances experienced delays in completing the development, introduction and qualification of new products, which has impacted our results in the past. Our research and development efforts are aimed at solving increasingly complex problems, and we do not expect that all our projects will be successful. The successful development, introduction and acceptance of new products depend on a number of factors, including the following: qualification and acceptance of our new product and systems designs, specifically entering into automotive applications which require even more stringent levels of qualification and standards; our customers' ability to develop competitive products incorporating our products; market acceptance of our products and our customers products; our ability to effectively transfer increasingly complex products and technology from development to manufacturing, including the transition to 200mm substrates; our ability to introduce new products in a timely and cost-effective manner; achievement of technology breakthroughs required to make commercially viable products; our ability to convert customer design-ins to sales of significant volume, and, if customer design-in activity does result in such sales, when such sales will ultimately occur and what the amount of such sales will be; the accuracy of our predictions for market requirements; our ability to predict, influence and/or react to evolving standards; acceptance of new technology in certain markets; our ability to protect intellectual property developed in new products; the availability of qualified research and development personnel; our timely completion of product designs and development; our ability to develop repeatable processes to manufacture new products in sufficient quantities, with the desired specifications and at competitive costs; and our ability to secure volume purchase orders related to new products. If any of these or other similar factors becomes problematic, we may not be able to deliver and introduce new products in a timely or cost-effective manner. We continue to focus on the acceleration of our transition to production using 200mm substrates and if we are unable to balance capacity with customer demands or are unable to continue making this transition in a timely or cost-effective manner, our results could be negatively impacted. We face risks relating to our suppliers, including that we rely on a number of key sole source and limited source suppliers, are subject to high price volatility on certain commodity inputs, including as a result of tariffs, variations in parts quality, and raw material consistency and availability, and rely on independent shipping companies for delivery of our products. We depend on a number of sole source and limited source suppliers for certain raw materials, components, services and equipment used in manufacturing our products, including key materials and equipment used in critical stages of our manufacturing processes. Although alternative sources generally exist for these items, qualification of many of these alternative sources could take up to six months or longer. Where possible, we attempt to identify and qualify alternative sources for our sole and limited source suppliers. We generally purchase these sole or limited source items with purchase orders, and we have limited guaranteed supply arrangements with such suppliers, including take-or-pay arrangements and capacity reserve deposit agreements. Some of our sources can have variations in attributes and availability which can affect our ability to produce products in sufficient volume or quality. We do not control the time and resources that these suppliers devote to our business, and we cannot be sure that these 23 Table of Contents suppliers will perform their obligations to us. Additionally, general shortages in the marketplace of certain raw materials or key components may adversely impact our business. In the past, we have experienced decreases in our production yields when suppliers have varied from previously agreed upon specifications or made other modifications we did not specify, which impacted our cost of revenue. We also may encounter issues with our vendors delaying orders or requiring more onerous terms during the pendency of the Chapter 11 Cases and following the implementation of the Plan. Additionally, the inability of our suppliers to access capital efficiently could cause disruptions in their businesses, thereby negatively impacting ours. This risk may increase from unpredictable and unstable changes in economic conditions, including recession, inflation, or other changes, which may negatively affect key suppliers or a significant number of our other suppliers. Any delay in product delivery or other interruption or variation in supply from these suppliers could prevent us from meeting commercial demand for our products. If we were to lose key suppliers, if our key suppliers were unable to support our demand for any reason or if we were unable to identify and qualify alternative suppliers, our manufacturing operations could be interrupted or hampered significantly. We rely on arrangements with independent shipping companies for the delivery of our products from vendors and to customers both in the United States and abroad. The failure or inability of these shipping companies to deliver products or the unavailability of shipping or port services, even temporarily, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may also be adversely affected by an increase in freight surcharges due to rising fuel costs, oil costs and added security. In our fabrication process, we consume a number of precious metals and other commodities, which are subject to high price volatility and the potential impacts of increased inflation. Our operating margins could be significantly affected if we are not able to pass along price increases to our customers. In addition, production could be disrupted by the unavailability of the resources used in production such as water, silicon, electricity and gases. Future environmental regulations could restrict supply or increase the cost of certain of those materials. We operate in industries that are subject to significant fluctuation in supply and demand and ultimately pricing, which affects our revenue and profitability. The industries we serve are in different stages of adoption and are characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards and fluctuations in product supply and demand. The semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid technological change, high capital expenditures, short product life cycles and continuous advancements in process technologies and manufacturing facilities. As the markets for our products mature, additional fluctuations may result from variability and consolidations within the industrys customer base. These fluctuations have been characterized by lower product demand, production overcapacity, higher inventory levels and aggressive pricing actions by our competitors. These fluctuations have also been characterized by higher demand for key components and equipment used in, or in the manufacture of, our products resulting in longer lead times, supply delays and production disruptions. We have experienced these conditions in our business and may experience such conditions in the future, which could have a material negative impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, as we diversify our product offerings and as pricing differences in the average selling prices among our product lines widen, a change in the mix of sales among our product lines may increase volatility in our revenue and gross margin from period to period. If we are unable to effectively develop, manage and expand our sales channels for our products, our operating results may suffer. We sell a portion of our products to distributors, including a distributor that represented more than 10% of our revenue in fiscal 2025. We rely on distributors to develop and expand their customer base as well as to anticipate demand from their customers. If they are not successful, our growth and profitability may be adversely impacted. Distributors must balance the need to have enough products in stock in order to meet their customers demand against their internal target inventory levels and the risk of potential inventory obsolescence. The risks of inventory obsolescence are especially relevant to technological products. The distributors internal target inventory levels vary depending on market cycles and a number of factors within each distributor over which we have very little, if any, control. Distributors also have the ability to shift business to different manufacturers within their product portfolio based on a number of factors, including new product availability and performance. Similarly, we have the ability to add, consolidate, or remove distributors. We typically recognize revenue on products sold to distributors when an item is shipped and title passes to the distributor. Certain distributors have limited rights to return inventory under stock rotation programs and have limited price adjustment rights for which we make estimates. We evaluate inventory levels in the distribution channel, current economic trends and other related factors in order to account for these factors in our judgments and estimates. As inventory levels and product return 24 Table of Contents trends change or we make changes to our distributor roster, we may have to revise our estimates and incur additional costs, and our gross margins and operating results could be adversely impacted. We depend on a limited number of customers, including distributors, for a substantial portion of our revenue, and the loss of, or a significant reduction in purchases by, one or more of these customers could adversely affect our operating results. We receive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers and distributors, two of which individually represented more than 10% of our consolidated revenue in fiscal 2025. Many of our customer orders are made on a purchase order basis, which does not generally require any long-term customer commitments. Therefore, these customers may alter their purchasing behavior with little or no notice to us for various reasons, including developing, or, in the case of our distributors, their customers developing, their own product solutions; choosing to purchase or distribute product from our competitors; incorrectly forecasting end market demand for their products; altering their purchasing practices as a result of the Chapter 11 Cases and/or the implementation of the Plan; or experiencing a reduction in their market share in the markets for which they purchase our products. If our customers alter their purchasing behavior, if our customers purchasing behavior does not match our expectations or if we encounter any problems collecting amounts due from them, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and have evolving technical requirements. The markets for our products are highly competitive. In the semiconductor market, we compete with companies that have greater market share, name recognition, distribution and sales channels, and/or technical resources than we do. Competitors continue to offer new products with aggressive pricing, additional features and improved performance. Aggressive pricing actions by our competitors in our businesses could reduce margins if we are not able to reduce costs at an equal or greater rate than the sales price decline. As competition increases, we need to continue to develop new products that meet or exceed the needs of our customers. Therefore, our ability to continually produce more efficient and lower cost power and materials products that meet the evolving needs of our customers will be critical to our success. Competitors may also try to align with some of our strategic customers. This could lead to lower prices for our products, reduced demand for our products and a corresponding reduction in our ability to recover development, engineering and manufacturing costs. Any of these developments could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our revenue is highly dependent on our customers ability to produce, market and sell more integrated products. Our revenue depends on getting our products designed into a larger number of our customers products and in turn, our customers ability to produce, market and sell their products. For example, we have current and prospective customers that create, or plan to create, power products or systems using our substrates, die, components or modules. Even if our customers are able to develop and produce products or systems that incorporate our substrates, die, components or modules, there can be no assurance that our customers will be successful in marketing and selling these products or systems in the marketplace. Our results may be negatively impacted if customers do not maintain their favorable perception of our brands and products. Maintaining and continually enhancing the value of our brands is critical to the success of our business. Brand value is based in large part on customer perceptions. Success in promoting and enhancing brand value depends in large part on our ability to provide high-quality products. Brand value could diminish significantly due to a number of factors, including adverse publicity about our products (whether valid or not), a failure to maintain the quality of our products (whether perceived or real), the failure of our products to deliver consistently positive consumer experiences, the products becoming unavailable to consumers or consumer perception that we have acted in an irresponsible manner. Similarly, customers and other third parties may be less likely to invest time and resources in developing business relationships with us if they are not convinced that our business will succeed, including the perception that we may not be able to successfully stabilize our business following emergence from the Chapter 11 Cases. Accordingly, to build, maintain and grow our business, we must establish and maintain confidence among customers, suppliers, the investment community and other parties with respect to our liquidity and long-term business prospects. Damage to our brand, reputation or loss of customer confidence in our brand or products could result in decreased demand for our products and have a negative impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. If our products fail to perform or fail to meet customer requirements or expectations, we could incur significant additional costs, including costs associated with the recall of those items. The manufacture of our products involves highly complex processes. Our customers specify quality, performance and reliability standards that we must meet. If our products do not meet these standards, we may be required to replace or rework the products. 25 Table of Contents In some cases, our products may contain undetected defects or flaws that only become evident after shipment and installation. Even if our products meet standard specifications, our customers may attempt to use our products in applications for which they were not designed or in products that were not designed or manufactured properly, resulting in product failures and creating customer satisfaction issues. We have experienced product quality, performance or reliability problems from time to time and defects or failures may occur in the future. If failures or defects occur, they could result in significant losses or product recalls. A significant product recall could also result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation and a loss of customer confidence in our products. We also may be the target of product liability lawsuits against us if the use of our products at issue is determined to have caused injury or contained a substantial product hazard. We provide standard warranty periods of 90 days on our products, with longer periods under a limited number of customer contracts. Although we believe our reserves are appropriate, we are making projections about the future reliability of new products and technologies, and we may experience increased variability in warranty claims. Increased warranty claims could result in significant losses due to a rise in warranty expense and costs associated with customer support. As a result of our continued expansion into new markets, we may compete with existing customers who may reduce their orders. We continue to expand into new markets and new market segments. Many of our existing customers who purchase our silicon carbide substrate materials develop and manufacture devices, die and components using those wafers that are offered in the same power market. As a result, some of our current customers perceive us as a competitor in these market segments. In response, our customers may reduce or discontinue their orders for our substrate materials. This reduction in or discontinuation of orders could occur faster than our sales growth in these new markets, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Risks associated with our strategic transactions If we fail to evaluate and execute strategic opportunities successfully, our business may suffer. From time to time, including the present, we evaluate strategic opportunities available to us for product, technology or business transactions, such as business acquisitions, investments or capacity expansions, joint ventures, divestitures, or spin-offs. If we choose to enter into such strategic transactions, we face certain risks including: the inability to realize the expected benefits, both from a timing and amount perspective, from our ongoing and planned capacity expansions, including the expansion of a new materials manufacturing facility in Siler City, North Carolina; the failure of an acquired business, investee or joint venture to meet our performance and financial expectations; identification of additional liabilities relating to an acquired business; loss of customers due to perceived conflicts or competition with such customers or due to regulatory actions taken by governmental agencies; that we are not able to enter into acceptable contractual arrangements in connection with the transaction; difficulty integrating an acquired business's operations, personnel and financial and operating systems into our current business; that we are not able to develop and expand customer bases and accurately anticipate demand from end customers, which can result in increased inventory and reduced orders if we experience wide fluctuations in supply and demand; diversion of management's attention; difficulty separating the operations, personnel and financial and operating systems of a spin-off or divestiture from our current business; the possibility we are unable to complete the transaction and expend substantial resources without achieving the desired benefit; the inability to obtain required regulatory agency approvals; reliance on a transaction counterparty for transition services for an extended period of time, which may result in additional expenses and delay the integration of the acquired business and realization of the desired benefit of the transaction; uncertainty of the financial markets or circumstances that cause conditions that are less favorable and/or different than expected; and expenses incurred to complete a transaction may be significantly higher than anticipated. 26 Table of Contents We may not be able to adequately address these risks or any other problems that arise from our prior or future acquisitions, investments, joint ventures, divestitures or spin-offs. Any failure to successfully evaluate strategic opportunities and address risks or other problems that arise related to any such business transaction could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. We are subject to a number of risks associated with our restructuring plan, and these risks could impact our operations, financial condition and ability to realize expected cost savings. In the first quarter of fiscal 2025, we initiated a headcount reduction and facility consolidation plan intended to reduce costs, increase our operational efficiency and align our manufacturing capacity with our customers' demand (the "2025 Restructuring Plan"). This plan may result in business disruptions, including impacts to our customer relationships, unfavorable publicity and reputational harm, and loss of productivity from our employees. The expected costs and charges of the 2025 Restructuring Plan may be greater than we have forecasted, and the estimated cost savings may be lower than we have forecasted. For example, the 2025 Restructuring Plan may result in unintended consequences and costs, including costs associated with attrition beyond our intended reduction in force, a decrease in morale among team members following the completion of the 2025 Restructuring Plan and the Chapter 11 Cases, adverse impacts to our ability to recruit and hire qualified personnel in the future, and the loss of institutional knowledge and expertise, which could result in losses in future periods or otherwise prevent us from realizing, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits and savings from the 2025 Restructuring Plan and the Chapter 11 Cases. We may not be able to implement our restructuring program as planned, and we may need to take additional measures and incur additional costs to fulfill the objectives of our restructuring. In addition, the shutdown of our 150mm device fabrication could cause a customer demand impact if they prefer not to purchase our 200mm products. If we experience any of these adverse consequences, the 2025 Restructuring Plan may not achieve or sustain the intended benefits and could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. We are subject to risks associated with the sale of our former Lighting Products, LED Products and RF business units, and these risks could adversely impact our financial condition. On May 13, 2019, we closed the sale of our former Lighting Products business unit to IDEAL Industries, Inc. ("IDEAL"), on March 1, 2021, we completed the sale of our former LED Products business unit (the "LED Business") to SMART Global Holdings, Inc. ("SGH"), and on December 2, 2023, we completed the sale of the RF Business to MACOM Technology Solutions Holdings, Inc. ("MACOM") pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement dated August 22, 2023 (the "RF Purchase Agreement"). We are subject to risks associated with these transactions, including risks associated with any required payments of indemnification obligations under the Purchase Agreement with IDEAL, the Asset Purchase Agreement with SGH, and the RF Purchase Agreement with MACOM for retained liabilities and breaches of representations, warranties or covenants. As a result, we may be unable to realize the anticipated benefits of these transactions. Our failure to realize the anticipated benefits of these transactions would adversely impact our financial condition and could limit our ability to pursue additional strategic transactions. Risks associated with our capital structure We have outstanding debt which could materially restrict our business and adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. As of June 29, 2025, our indebtedness consisted of $575.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 2026 Notes, $750.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 2028 Notes, $1,750.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 2029 Notes and $1,521.2 million aggregate principal amount of Senior Secured Notes and an aggregate principal amount of $2,062.0 million of deposits under the CRD Agreement with Renesas. As discussed in Note 9, "Debt," to our consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report, on October 11, 2024, we entered into the Amended and Restated Indenture (the 2030 Senior Notes Indenture), which amends certain terms and conditions of the Senior Secured Notes and permits us to issue and sell $750.0 million of additional notes, subject to the fulfillment of certain conditions. On October 22, 2024, we issued an additional $250.0 million of Senior Secured Notes. In connection with the Chapter 11 Cases, we are no longer able to borrow the $500 million undrawn commitment under the 2030 Senior Notes Indenture. The level of our outstanding debt may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition by, among other things: increasing our vulnerability to downturns in our business, to competitive pressures and to adverse general economic and industry conditions; requiring the dedication of an increased portion of our expected cash flows from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of expected cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures, or research and development; 27 Table of Contents limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our peers that may have less indebtedness than we have by limiting our ability to borrow additional funds needed to operate and grow our business; and increasing our interest expense if interest rates increase. Our ability to pay interest and repay the principal for or to refinance any outstanding indebtedness under the Convertible Notes, the Senior Secured Notes and the CRD Agreement is dependent upon our ability to manage our business operations, generate sufficient cash flows to service such debt and/or raise additional capital, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully. The 2030 Senior Notes Indenture includes a liquidity maintenance financial covenant requiring us to have an aggregate amount of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents maintained in accounts over which the trustee and collateral agent for the Senior Secured Notes has been granted a perfected first lien security interest of at least $750 million as of the last day of any calendar month ending after April 1, 2025, which amount will be reduced over time upon the fulfillment of certain conditions. In addition, the 2030 Senior Notes Indenture contains certain restrictions that could limit our ability to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness, dispose of assets, create liens on assets, make acquisitions or engage in mergers or consolidations, and engage in certain transactions with our subsidiaries and affiliates. The 2030 Senior Notes Indenture also requires us to make an offer to repurchase the Senior Secured Notes with 100% of the net cash proceeds of certain non-ordinary course asset sales and casualty events, subject to the ability to reinvest the proceeds of such casualty events and asset sales (subject to certain limitations), or upon a change of control. The Indentures governing the Convertible Notes (the "Convertible Notes Indentures") require us to repurchase the Convertible Notes upon certain fundamental changes relating to our common stock, and also prohibit our consolidation, merger, or sale of all or substantially all of our assets except with or to a successor entity assuming our obligations under the Indentures. The CRD Agreement contains certain restrictions on our ability to incur debt and liens, consummate non-arms-length transactions with affiliates, consummate mergers and consolidations whereby obligations under the CRD Agreement are not assumed and change the nature of our business. The restrictions imposed by the 2030 Senior Notes Indenture, the Convertible Notes Indentures, and the CRD Agreement could limit our ability to plan for or react to changing business conditions or could otherwise restrict our business activities and plans. The filing of the Chapter 11 Cases constituted events of default that accelerated our obligations under the Indentures. As a result, the principal and interest due under our outstanding Senior Secured Notes, Convertible Notes, and CRD Agreement became immediately due and payable. However, any efforts to enforce such payment obligations are automatically stayed as a result of the filing of the Chapter 11 Cases, and the creditors rights of enforcement are subject to the applicable provisions of the Bankruptcy Code. We do not have sufficient cash on hand or available liquidity to repay such outstanding debt. We may be unable to comply with the restrictions imposed by the Cash Collateral Order. As part of the Restructuring Support Agreement, we and the other parties agreed on the terms of a proposed order authorizing our use of cash collateral (as modified and entered by the Bankruptcy Court on a final basis on August 1, 2025, the Cash Collateral Order), in connection with the Chapter 11 Cases on certain terms and conditions set forth therein. The Debtors intend to use the cash collateral to, among other things, permit the orderly continuation of their business, pay the costs of administration of their estates and satisfy other working capital and general corporate purposes. The Cash Collateral Order imposes a number of restrictions on us. For example, the Cash Collateral Order requires the Debtors to maintain (i) from the Petition Date until three months after the Petition Date, at least $650.0 million of liquidity, calculated at the end of every two week period as unrestricted cash and cash equivalents subject to a lien in favor of the Collateral Agent and (ii) from three months after the Petition Date until the Plan Effective Date, at least $600.0 million of liquidity, calculated at the end of every two week period as unrestricted cash and cash equivalents subject to a lien in favor of the Collateral Agent. The Cash Collateral Order also requires (a) compliance with variance covenants that compare actual operating disbursements and receipts to the budgeted amounts set forth in the budgets delivered from time to time pursuant to the terms of the Cash Collateral Order and (b) that the Debtors not spend more than $200.0 million on capital expenditures between the Petition Date and the Plan Effective Date. In addition, the Cash Collateral Order imposes certain milestones on the Debtors in connection with the Chapter 11 Cases. Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control and our failure to comply could result in an event of default under the Cash Collateral Order, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 28 Table of Contents Risks associated with cybersecurity, intellectual property and litigation We may be subject to confidential information theft or misuse, which could harm our business and results of operations. We face attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems on which we maintain proprietary and other confidential information and such attempts may increase in terms of frequency and severity. Our security measures may be breached as the result of industrial or other espionage actions of outside parties, employees, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and as a result, an unauthorized party may obtain access to our systems. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber-attacks, ransomware, or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments, and cyber terrorists, has generally increased as cyber-attacks have become more prevalent and harder to detect and fight against. Additionally, outside parties may attempt to access our confidential information through other means, for example by fraudulently inducing our employees to disclose confidential information. We actively seek to prevent, detect and investigate any unauthorized access, which sometimes occurs and is usually not recognized until after it has occurred. We might be unaware of any such access or unable to determine its magnitude and effects. We are also at risk of security breaches and disruptions occurring at third parties that we work with, including our customers and suppliers. To date, we do not believe that such unauthorized access to these systems has caused us any material damage. In addition, these threats are constantly evolving, thereby increasing the difficulty of successfully defending against them or implementing adequate preventative measures. The theft and/or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information as a result of such an incident could adversely affect our competitive position, result in a loss of confidence in the adequacy of our threat mitigation and detection processes and procedures, cause us to incur significant costs to remedy the damage caused by the incident, divert management's attention and other resources, and reduce the value of our investment in research and development. In addition, the increased prevalence of employees working from home may exacerbate the aforementioned cybersecurity risks. Our business could be subject to significant disruption and we could suffer monetary or other losses. Our disclosure