ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this report. Overview Workday provides financial management, human capital management, planning, and analytics applications designed for the worlds largest companies, educational institutions, and government agencies. We offer innovative and adaptable technology focused on the consumer internet experience and cloud delivery model. Our applications are designed for global enterprises to manage complex and dynamic operating environments. We provide our customers with highly adaptable, accessible, and reliable applications to manage critical business functions that enable them to optimize their financial and human capital resources. We were founded in 2005 to deliver cloud applications to global enterprises. Our applications are designed around the way people work todayin an environment that is global, collaborative, fast-paced, and mobile. Our cycle of frequent updates has facilitated rapid innovation and the introduction of new applications throughout our history. We began offering our HCM application in 2006 and our Financial Management application in 2007. Since then we have continued to invest in innovation and have consistently introduced new services to our customers. We offer Workday applications to our customers on an enterprise-wide subscription basis, typically with contract terms of three years or longer and with subscription fees largely based on the size of the customers workforce. We generally recognize revenues from subscription fees ratably over the term of the contract. We currently derive a substantial majority of our subscription services revenues from subscriptions to our HCM application. We market our applications primarily through our direct sales force. Our diverse customer base includes medium-sized and large, global companies, as well as smaller organizations that primarily use our planning product. We have achieved significant growth in a relatively short period of time with a substantial amount of our growth coming from new customers. Our current financial focus is on growing our revenues and expanding our customer base. While we are incurring losses today, we strive to invest in a disciplined manner across all of our functional areas to sustain continued near-term revenue growth and support our long-term initiatives. Our operating expenses have increased significantly in absolute dollars in recent periods, primarily due to the significant growth of our employee population. We had approximately 11,000 and approximately 8,600 employees as of April 30, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. We intend to continue investing for long-term growth. We have invested, and expect to continue to invest, heavily in our product development efforts to deliver additional compelling applications and to address customers evolving needs. In addition, we plan to continue to expand our ability to sell our applications globally, particularly in Europe and Asia, by investing in product development and customer support to address the business needs of local markets, increasing our sales and marketing organizations, acquiring, building and/or leasing additional office space, and expanding our ecosystem of service partners to support local deployments. We expect to make further significant investments in our data center capacity as we plan for future growth. We are also investing in personnel to service our growing customer base. 27 Table of Contents We also regularly evaluate acquisitions or investment opportunities in complementary businesses, joint ventures, and intellectual property rights in an effort to expand our product and service offerings. We expect to continue to make such acquisitions and investments in the future, and we plan to reinvest a significant portion of our incremental revenue in future periods to grow our business and continue our leadership role in the industry. While we remain focused on improving operating margins, these acquisitions and investments will increase our costs on an absolute basis in the near-term. Many of these investments will occur in advance of experiencing any direct benefit from them and could make it difficult to determine if we are allocating our resources efficiently. We expect our product development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses as a percentage of total revenues to decrease over time as we grow our revenues, and we anticipate that we will gain economies of scale by increasing our customer base without direct incremental development costs and by utilizing more of the capacity of our data centers. Since inception, we have also invested heavily in our professional services organization to help ensure that customers successfully deploy and adopt our applications. Additionally, we continue to expand our professional service partner ecosystem to further support our customers. We believe our investment in professional services, as well as partners building consulting practices around Workday, will drive additional customer subscriptions and continued growth in revenues. Due to our ability to leverage the expanding partner ecosystem, we expect that the rate of professional services revenue growth will decline over time and continue to be lower than subscription services revenue growth. Components of Results of Operations Revenues We primarily derive our revenues from subscription services and professional services. Subscription services revenues primarily consist of fees that give our customers access to our cloud applications, which include related customer support. Professional services fees include deployment services, optimization services, and training. Subscription services revenues accounted for 85% of our total revenues during the three months ended April 30, 2019 , and represented 96% of our total unearned revenue as of April 30, 2019 . Subscription services revenues are driven primarily by the number of customers, the number of workers at each customer, the specific applications subscribed to by each customer, and the price of our applications. The mix of the applications to which a customer subscribes can affect our financial performance due to price differentials in our applications. Pricing for our applications varies based on many factors, including the complexity and maturity of the application and its acceptance in the marketplace. New products or services offerings by competitors in the future could also impact the mix and pricing of our offerings. Subscription services revenues are recognized over time as they are delivered and consumed concurrently over the contractual term, beginning on the date our service is made available to the customer. Our subscription contracts typically have a term of three years or longer and are generally non-cancelable. We generally invoice our customers annually in advance. Amounts that have been invoiced are initially recorded as unearned revenue. Our consulting engagements are billed on a time and materials or fixed fee basis, and revenues are typically recognized over time as the services are performed. In some cases, we supplement our consulting teams by subcontracting resources from our service partners and deploying them on customer engagements. As our professional services organization and the Workday-related consulting practices of our partner firms continue to develop, we expect the partners to increasingly contract directly with our subscription customers. As a result of this trend, and the increase of our subscription services revenues, we expect professional services revenues as a percentage of total revenues to decline over time. Costs and Expenses Costs of subscription services revenues. Costs of subscription services revenues consist primarily of employee-related expenses related to hosting our applications and providing customer support, the costs of data center capacity, and depreciation of computer equipment and software. Costs of professional services revenues . Costs of professional services revenues consist primarily of employee-related expenses associated with these services, the cost of subcontractors, and travel. Product development . Product development expenses consist primarily of employee-related costs. We continue to focus our product development efforts on adding new features and applications, increasing the functionality, and enhancing the ease of use of our cloud applications. 28 Table of Contents Sales and marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of employee-related costs, sales commissions, marketing programs, and travel. Marketing programs consist of advertising, events, corporate communications, brand building, and product marketing activities. Sales commissions are considered incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a customer and are deferred and amortized. Sales commissions for initial contracts are deferred and then amortized on a straight-line basis over a period of benefit that we have determined to be five years. Sales commissions for renewal contracts are deferred and then amortized on a straight-line basis over the related contractual renewal period. General and administrative . General and administrative expenses consist of employee-related costs for finance and accounting, legal, human resources, information systems personnel, professional fees, and other corporate expenses. Results of Operations Revenues Our total revenues for the three months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018 were as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended April 30, 2019 2018 % Change Revenues: Subscription services $ 701,024 $ 522,149 34% Professional services 124,031 96,494 29% Total revenues $ 825,055 $ 618,643 33% Total revenues were $825 million for the three months ended April 30, 2019 , compared to $619 million during the prior year period, an increase of $206 million , or 33% . Subscription services revenues were $701 million for the three months ended April 30, 2019 , compared to $522 million for the prior year period, an increase of $179 million , or 34% . The increase in subscription services revenues was due primarily to an increased number of customer contracts as compared to the prior year period. Professional services revenues were $124 million for the three months ended April 30, 2019 , compared to $96 million for the prior year period, an increase of $28 million , or 29% . The increase in professional services revenues was due primarily to Workday performing deployment and integration services for a greater number of customers than in the prior year period. Operating Expenses GAAP operating expenses were $948 million for the three months ended April 30, 2019 , compared to $690 million for the prior year period, an increase of $258 million, or 37% . The increase was primarily due to an increase of $189 million in employee-related costs driven by higher headcount, $23 million in depreciation and amortization expenses, $11 million in professional fees, $11 million in facility and IT-related expenses, and $11 million in third-party costs for hardware maintenance and data center capacity. We use the non-GAAP financial measure of non-GAAP operating expenses to understand and compare operating results across accounting periods, for internal budgeting and forecasting purposes, for short- and long-term operating plans, and to evaluate our financial performance. We believe that non-GAAP operating expenses reflect our ongoing business in a manner that allows for meaningful period-to-period comparisons and analysis of trends in our business, as they exclude expenses that are not reflective of ongoing operating results. We also believe that non-GAAP operating expenses provide useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results and prospects in the same manner as management and in comparing financial results across accounting periods and to those of peer companies. Non-GAAP operating expenses are calculated by excluding share-based compensation expenses, and certain other expenses, which consist of employer payroll tax-related items on employee stock transactions and amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets. Non-GAAP operating expenses were $717 million for the three months ended April 30, 2019 , compared to $538 million for the prior year period, an increase of $179 million , or 33% . The increase was primarily due to an increase of $124 million in employee-related costs driven by higher headcount, $11 million in professional fees, $11 million in facility and IT-related expenses, $11 million in third-party costs for hardware maintenance and data center capacity, and $8 million in depreciation and amortization expenses. 29 Table of Contents Reconciliations of our GAAP to non-GAAP operating expenses were as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended April 30, 2019 GAAP Operating Expenses Share-Based Compensation Expenses (1) Other Operating Expenses (2) Non-GAAP Operating Expenses (3) Costs of subscription services $ 112,469 $ (10,415 ) $ (12,660 ) $ 89,394 Costs of professional services 130,750 (16,150 ) (3,459 ) 111,141 Product development 347,831 (91,237 ) (13,631 ) 242,963 Sales and marketing 272,936 (38,854 ) (12,834 ) 221,248 General and administrative 84,455 (28,579 ) (3,298 ) 52,578 Total costs and expenses $ 948,441 $ (185,235 ) $ (45,882 ) $ 717,324 Three Months Ended April 30, 2018 GAAP Operating Expenses Share-Based Compensation Expenses (1) Other Operating Expenses (2) Non-GAAP Operating Expenses (3) Costs of subscription services $ 80,245 $ (7,877 ) $ (4,452 ) $ 67,916 Costs of professional services 97,726 (10,792 ) (1,701 ) 85,233 Product development 263,584 (68,511 ) (8,797 ) 186,276 Sales and marketing 192,771 (25,612 ) (2,580 ) 164,579 General and administrative 55,581 (19,867 ) (1,867 ) 33,847 Total costs and expenses $ 689,907 $ (132,659 ) $ (19,397 ) $ 537,851 (1) Share-based compensation expenses were $185 million and $133 million for the three months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. The increase in share-based compensation expenses was primarily due to grants of restricted stock units (RSUs) to existing and new employees and assumed Adaptive Insights, Inc. (Adaptive Insights) awards. (2) Other operating expenses include employer payroll tax-related items on employee stock transactions of $27 million and $14 million for the three months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. In addition, other operating expenses included amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets of $19 million and $5 million for the three months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. (3) See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for further information. Costs of Subscription Services See the table above for a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP operating expenses. GAAP operating expenses in costs of subscription services were $112 million for the three months ended April 30, 2019 , compared to $80 million for the prior year period, an increase of $32 million , or 40% . The increase was primarily due to increases of $14 million in depreciation and amortization expense including our acquisition-related intangible assets, $7 million in employee-related costs driven by higher headcount, and $7 million in third-party costs for hardware maintenance and data center capacity. Non-GAAP operating expenses in costs of subscription services were $89 million for the three months ended April 30, 2019 , compared to $68 million for the prior year period, an increase of $21 million , or 31%. The increase was primarily due to increases of $7 million in third-party costs for hardware maintenance and data center capacity, and $6 million in depreciation expense related to equipment in our data centers. We expect that GAAP and non-GAAP operating expenses in costs of subscription services will continue to increase in absolute dollars as we improve and expand our data center capacity and operations. Costs of Professional Services See the table above for a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP operating expenses. GAAP operating expenses in costs of professional services were $131 million for the three months ended April 30, 2019 , compared to $98 million for the prior year period, an increase of $33 million , or 34% . The increase was primarily due to additional costs to staff our deployment and integration engagements. 30 Table of Contents Non-GAAP operating expenses in costs of professional services were $111 million for the three months ended April 30, 2019 , compared to $85 million for the prior year period, an increase of $26 million , or 31%. The increase was primarily due to additional costs to staff our deployment and integration engagements. Going forward, we expect GAAP and non-GAAP costs of professional services as a percentage of total revenues to continue to decline as we continue to rely on our service partners to deploy our applications and as the number of our customers continues to grow. For fiscal 2020, we anticipate GAAP and non-GAAP professional services margins to be lower than fiscal 2019 as we invest in programs to ensure ongoing customer success. Product Development See the table above for a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP operating expenses. GAAP operating expenses in product development were $348 million for the three months ended April 30, 2019 , compared to $264 million for the prior year period, an increase of $84 million , or 32% . The increase was primarily due to increases of $72 million in employee-related costs driven by higher headcount and $6 million in facility and IT-related expenses. Non-GAAP operating expenses in product development were $243 million for the three months ended April 30, 2019 , compared to $186 million for the prior year period, an increase of $57 million , or 31%. The increase was primarily due to increases of $45 million in employee-related costs driven by higher headcount and $6 million in facility and IT-related expenses. We expect that GAAP and non-GAAP product development expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars as we improve and extend our applications and develop new technologies. Sales and Marketing See the table above for a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP operating expenses. GAAP operating expenses in sales and marketing were $273 million for the three months ended April 30, 2019 , compared to $193 million for the prior year period, an increase of $80 million , or 41%. The increase was primarily due to $60 million increase in employee-related costs driven by higher headcount and higher commissionable sales volume, and $7 million in amortization expense related to our acquisition-related intangible assets. Non-GAAP operating expenses in sales and marketing were $221 million for the three months ended April 30, 2019 , compared to $165 million for the prior year period, an increase of $56 million, or 34% . The increase was primarily due to increases of $43 million in employee-related costs driven by higher headcount and higher commissionable sales volume. We expect that GAAP and non-GAAP sales and marketing expenses will increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest in our domestic and international selling and marketing activities to expand brand awareness and attract new customers. General and Administrative See the table above for a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP operating expenses. GAAP operating expenses in general and administrative were $84 million for the three months ended April 30, 2019 , compared to $56 million for the prior year period, an increase of $28 million, or 50%. The increase was primarily due to additional employee-related costs driven by higher headcount. Non-GAAP operating expenses in general and administrative were $53 million for the three months ended April 30, 2019 , compared to $34 million for the prior year period, an increase of $19 million , or 56%. The increase was primarily due to additional employee-related costs driven by higher headcount. We expect GAAP and non-GAAP general and administrative expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars as we further invest in our infrastructure and support our global expansion. Operating Margins GAAP operating margins declined from (11.5)% for the three months ended April 30, 2018 to (15.0)% for the three months ended April 30, 2019 . The reduction in our GAAP operating margins in the three months ended April 30, 2019 was primarily due to higher share-based compensation and other operating expenses from increased headcount and higher acquisition-related amortization expenses, offset by higher revenues. 31 Table of Contents We use the non-GAAP financial measure of non-GAAP operating margins to understand and compare operating results across accounting periods, for internal budgeting and forecasting purposes, for short- and long-term operating plans, and to evaluate our financial performance. We believe that non-GAAP operating margins reflect our ongoing business in a manner that allows for meaningful period-to-period comparisons and analysis of trends in our business, as they exclude expenses that are not reflective of ongoing operating results. We also believe that non-GAAP operating margins provide useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results and prospects in the same manner as management and in comparing financial results across accounting periods and to those of peer companies. Non-GAAP operating margins are calculated using GAAP revenues and non-GAAP operating expenses. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for further information. Non-GAAP operating margins remained constant at 13.1% for each of the three months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018, primarily due to higher revenues that were offset by higher operating expenses. Reconciliations of our GAAP to non-GAAP operating margins were as follows: Three Months Ended April 30, 2019 GAAP Operating Expenses Share-Based Compensation Expenses Other Operating Expenses Non-GAAP Operating Expenses (1) Operating margin (15.0 )% 22.5 % 5.6 % 13.1 % Three Months Ended April 30, 2018 GAAP Operating Expenses Share-Based Compensation Expenses Other Operating Expenses Non-GAAP Operating Expenses (1) Operating margin (11.5 )% 21.4 % 3.2 % 13.1 % (1) See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for further information. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income , net increased $11 million for the three months ended April 30, 2019 as compared to the prior year period. The increase was primarily due to a $7 million reduction in interest expense and a $7 million gain resulting from sales of marketable equity investments. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of April 30, 2019 , our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities totaling $1.9 billion , which were primarily held for working capital purposes. Our cash equivalents and marketable securities are composed primarily of U.S. treasury securities, U.S. agency obligations, corporate bonds, commercial paper, and money market funds. We have financed our operations primarily through customer payments, sales of equity securities, and issuance of debt. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our customer growth rate, subscription renewal activity, the timing of construction of facilities in Pleasanton, California, and the acquisition of additional facilities, the timing and extent of development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the introduction of new and enhanced services offerings, the continuing market acceptance of our services, and acquisition activities. We may enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services, technologies, or intellectual property rights in the future. We also may choose to seek additional equity or debt financing. Our cash flows for the three months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018 were as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended April 30, 2019 2018 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 209,163 $ 184,233 Investing activities (67,355 ) (284,586 ) Financing activities 3,362 2,554 Effect of exchange rate changes (327 ) (420 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ 144,843 $ (98,219 ) 32 Table of Contents Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities was $209 million and $184 million for the three months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. The improvement in cash flow provided by operating activities was primarily due to increases in sales and the related cash collections, partially offset by higher operating expenses driven by increased headcount. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities for the three months ended April 30, 2019 was $67 million , which was primarily the result of capital expenditures for data center and office space projects of $66 million , capital expenditures related to the construction of our development center of $34 million , and the timing of purchases and maturities of marketable securities. These payments were partially offset by proceeds of $51 million from sales of marketable equity investments. Cash used in investing activities for the three months ended April 30, 2018 was $285 million , which was primarily the result of the timing of purchases and maturities of marketable securities, capital expenditures related to the construction of our development center of $32 million and capital expenditures for data center and office space projects of $49 million. These payments were partially offset by proceeds of $27 million from the sale of marketable securities. We expect capital expenditures related to owned real estate projects, including construction of our development center, will be approximately $130 million for fiscal 2020. We also expect capital expenditures, excluding owned real estate projects, will be approximately $280 million for fiscal 2020. These capital outlays will largely be used to expand the infrastructure of our data centers and to build out additional office space to support our growth. Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities was $ 3 million for each of the three-month periods ended April 30, 2019 and 2018, which was primarily due to proceeds from the issuance of common stock from employee equity plans. 33 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation S-K Item 10(e), Use of non-GAAP financial measures in Commission filings, defines and prescribes the conditions for use of non-GAAP financial information. Our measures of non-GAAP operating expenses and non-GAAP operating margin meet the definition of a non-GAAP financial measure. Non-GAAP Operating Expenses and Non-GAAP Operating Margins We define non-GAAP operating expenses as our total operating expenses excluding the following components, which we believe are not reflective of our ongoing operational expenses. Similarly, the same components are also excluded from the calculation of non-GAAP operating margins. In each case, for the reasons set forth below, management believes that excluding the component provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results and prospects in the same manner as management, in comparing financial results across accounting periods and to those of peer companies, and to better understand the long-term performance of our core business. Share-Based Compensation Expenses. Although share-based compensation is an important aspect of the compensation of our employees and executives, management believes it is useful to exclude share-based compensation expenses to better understand the long-term performance of our core business and to facilitate comparison of our results to those of peer companies. Share-based compensation expenses are determined using a number of factors, including our stock price, volatility, and forfeiture rates that are beyond our control and generally unrelated to operational decisions and performance in any particular period. Further, share-based compensation expenses are not reflective of the value ultimately received by the grant recipients. Other Operating Expenses. Other operating expenses includes employer payroll tax-related items on employee stock transactions and amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets. The amount of employer payroll tax-related items on employee stock transactions is dependent on our stock price and other factors that are beyond our control and do not correlate to the operation of the business. For business combinations, we generally allocate a portion of the purchase price to intangible assets. The amount of the allocation is based on estimates and assumptions made by management and is subject to amortization. The amount of purchase price allocated to intangible assets and the term of its related amortization can vary significantly and are unique to each acquisition, and thus we do not believe it is reflective of our ongoing operations. Limitations on the Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures A limitation of our non-GAAP financial measures of non-GAAP operating expenses and non-GAAP operating margin is that they do not have uniform definitions. Our definitions will likely differ from the definitions used by other companies, including peer companies, and therefore comparability may be limited. Further, the non-GAAP financial measure of non-GAAP operating expenses has certain limitations because it does not reflect all items of expense that affect our operations and are reflected in the GAAP financial measure of total operating expenses. In the case of share-based compensation, if we did not pay out a portion of compensation in the form of share-based compensation and related employer payroll tax-related items, the cash salary expense included in costs of revenues and operating expenses would be higher, which would affect our cash position. We compensate for these limitations by reconciling the non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or in isolation from, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. We encourage investors and others to review our financial information in its entirety, not to rely on any single financial measure, and to view our non-GAAP financial measures in conjunction with the most comparable GAAP financial measures. See Results of OperationsOperating Expenses and Results of OperationsOperating Margins for reconciliations from the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, GAAP operating expenses and GAAP operating margins, to the non-GAAP financial measures, non-GAAP operating expenses and non-GAAP operating margins, for the three months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018 . Contractual Obligations Our contractual obligations primarily consist of our convertible senior notes, as well as obligations under leases for office space, co-location facilities for data center capacity, and computing infrastructure platforms for business operations. During the remainder of fiscal 2020, we anticipate leasing additional office space near our headquarters and in various other locations around the world to support our growth. In addition, our existing lease agreements often provide us with an option to renew. We expect our future operating lease obligations will increase as we expand our operations. 34 Table of Contents We are not required to make principal payments under the Notes prior to maturity. If the Notes are not converted to Class A common stock prior to their maturity dates, we are required to repay $250 million in principal on July 15, 2020 and $1.15 billion in principal on October 1, 2022. We are also required to make interest payments on a semi-annual basis at the interest rates described in Note 10, Convertible Senior Notes, Net, of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. We do not consider outstanding purchase orders to be contractual obligations as they represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Through April 30, 2019 , we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated organizations or financial partnerships, such as structured finance or special purpose entities, that would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of certain assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. During the three months ended April 30, 2019 , there were no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as described in the consolidated financial statements contained in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2019 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on March 18, 2019. 35 Table of Contents