ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Part I, Item 1 of this report. Overview Workday delivers applications for financial management, spend management, human capital management, planning, and analytics. With Workday, our customers have a unified system that can help them plan, execute, analyze, and extend to other applications and environments, thereby helping them continuously adapt how they manage their business and operations. Our diverse customer base includes medium-sized and large, global organizations within numerous industry categories, including professional and business services, financial services, healthcare, education, government, technology, media, retail, and hospitality. We have achieved significant growth since our inception in 2005. Our current financial focus is on growing our revenues, operating margin, and operating cash flows, and expanding both our customer base and our footprint within our existing customers. While we have a history of GAAP operating losses prior to fiscal 2024, we strive to invest in a disciplined manner across all of our functional areas to sustain continued near-term revenue growth and support our long-term initiatives. We expect our product development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses as a percentage of total revenues will decrease over the longer term as we grow our revenues, and we anticipate that we will gain economies of scale by increasing our customer base without direct incremental development costs. We plan to reinvest a significant portion of our incremental revenues in future periods to continue growing our business. We have invested and expect to continue to invest heavily in our product development efforts to deliver additional compelling applications, increase our product localization in targeted international markets, meet our customers evolving industry needs, and enhance our existing applications. In addition, we plan to continue to expand our ability to sell our applications globally, particularly in Europe and the Asia-Pacific region, by increasing our sales organization and marketing programs and by expanding our ecosystem of partners to deliver deployments, sales, and co-innovation on the Workday platform. We are also investing in our personnel to support the growing opportunity in our financial management applications business and our growing customer base. Additionally, we expect to make further significant investments in our data center capacity, third-party hosted infrastructure platforms, and cybersecurity capabilities as we plan for future growth. 26 Table of Contents We regularly evaluate acquisition and investment opportunities in complementary businesses, employee teams, services, technologies, and intellectual property rights in an effort to expand our product and service offerings, and expect to continue making acquisitions and investments in the future. While we remain focused on improving our operating margin, these acquisitions and investments may increase our costs on an absolute basis in the near term. Many of these investments will occur in advance of experiencing any direct benefit from them and could make it difficult to determine if we are allocating our resources efficiently. Since inception, we have also invested heavily in our professional services organization to help ensure that customers successfully deploy and adopt our applications. Additionally, we continue to expand our professional services partner ecosystem to further support our customers. We believe our investment in professional services, as well as partners building consulting practices around Workday and helping to deliver additional innovation and solutions, will drive additional customer subscriptions and continued growth in revenues. As we continue to leverage our expanding partner ecosystem, we expect that professional services revenue will continue to decline over time as a percentage of total revenues. Impact of Current Economic Conditions Recent macroeconomic events including higher inflation and interest rates, as well as geopolitical factors including the Russia-Ukraine and Israel-Hamas conflicts, have negatively impacted the global economy and created continued uncertainty, volatility, and disruption of financial markets. Despite this, we are confident in the long-term overall health of our business, the strength of our product offerings, and our ability to continue to execute on our strategy and help our customers on their human capital and finance digital transformation journeys. Demand for our products remains strong, we continue to achieve solid new subscription bookings, and our near-term revenues are relatively predictable as a result of our subscription-based business model. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, a moderation of revenue growth rates due to increased deal scrutiny and the lengthening of certain sales cycles, particularly within net new opportunities, and lower headcount level commitments upon renewals of existing customers. Further, we have provided, and may continue to provide, certain customers with more flexible payment terms. If the economic uncertainty continues, we may also experience additional negative impacts on customer renewals, customer collections, sales and marketing efforts, customer deployments, product development, or other financial metrics. Any of these factors could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. For further discussion of the potential impacts of recent macroeconomic events on our business, financial condition, and operating results, see Risk Factors included in Part II, Item 1A of this report. 27 Table of Contents Financial Results Overview The following table provides an overview of our key metrics (in millions, except percentages, basis points, and headcount data): Three Months Ended April 30, 2024 2023 Change Total revenues $ 1,990 $ 1,684 18 % Subscription services revenues $ 1,815 $ 1,528 19 % GAAP operating income (loss) $ 64 $ (20) 421 % Non-GAAP operating income (1) $ 515 $ 396 30 % GAAP operating margin 3.2 % (1.2) % 437 bps Non-GAAP operating margin (1) 25.9 % 23.5 % 236 bps Operating cash flows $ 372 $ 277 34 % Free cash flows (1) $ 291 $ 218 33 % As of April 30, 2024 2023 Change Total subscription revenue backlog $ 20,681 $ 16,651 24 % 12-month subscription revenue backlog $ 6,600 $ 5,595 18 % 24-month subscription revenue backlog $ 11,590 $ 9,790 18 % Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 7,182 $ 6,329 13 % Headcount 19,415 17,866 9 % (1)See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for further information. Components of Results of Operations Revenues We derive our revenues from subscription services and professional services. Subscription services revenues primarily consist of fees that give our customers access to our cloud applications, which include related customer support. Professional services revenues include fees for deployment services, optimization services, and training. Subscription services revenues accounted for approximately 91% of our total revenues for the three months ended April 30, 2024, and represented 96% of our total unearned revenue as of April 30, 2024. Subscription services revenues are driven primarily by the number of customers, the number of workers at each customer, the specific applications subscribed to by each customer, and the price of our applications. The mix of applications to which each customer subscribes can affect our financial performance due to price differentials in our applications. Pricing for our applications varies based on many factors, including the complexity and maturity of the application and its acceptance in the marketplace. New products or services offerings by competitors in the future could also impact the mix and pricing of our offerings. Subscription services revenues are recognized over time as services are delivered and consumed concurrently over the contractual term, beginning on the date our service is made available to the customer. Our subscription contracts typically have a term of three years or longer and are generally noncancelable. We generally invoice our customers annually in advance for subscription services. We may provide certain customers flexible payment terms and the timing of revenue recognition may differ from the timing of invoicing to our customers. 28 Table of Contents Our professional services consulting engagements are billed on a time and materials basis or a fixed price basis. We generally invoice our customers in arrears for our professional services. For contracts billed on a time and materials basis, revenues are recognized over time as the professional services are performed. For contracts billed on a fixed price basis, revenues are recognized over time based on the proportion of the professional services performed. In some cases, we supplement our consulting teams by subcontracting resources from our service partners and deploying them on customer engagements. As the Workday-related consulting practices of our partner firms continue to develop, we expect these partners to increasingly contract directly with our subscription customers for services engagements. Subscription Revenue Backlog Our subscription revenue backlog, which is also referred to as remaining performance obligations for subscription contracts, represents contracted subscription services revenues that have not yet been recognized and includes billed and unbilled amounts. Subscription revenue backlog may fluctuate from period to period due to a number of factors, including the timing of renewals and overall renewal rates, new business growth, average contract duration, and seasonality. Costs and Expenses Costs of subscription services revenues. Costs of subscription services revenues consist primarily of expenses associated with hosting our applications and providing customer support, including employee-related expenses, expenses related to data center capacity and computing infrastructure operated by third parties, and depreciation of our data center equipment. Costs of professional services revenues. Costs of professional services revenues consist primarily of employee-related expenses associated with these services, subcontractor expenses, and travel expenses. Product development expenses. Product development expenses consist primarily of employee-related expenses associated with our efforts to add new features and applications, increase functionality, and enhance the ease of use of our cloud applications, as well as expenses related to data center capacity. Sales and marketing expenses. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of employee-related expenses, sales commissions, marketing programs, and travel expenses. Marketing programs consist of advertising, events, corporate communications, brand awareness, brand ambassador campaigns, and product marketing activities. Sales commissions are considered incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a customer. Sales commissions for new revenue contracts are capitalized and amortized on a straight-line basis over a period of benefit that we have determined to be five years. General and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses consist of employee-related expenses for finance and accounting, legal, human resources, information systems personnel, professional fees, and other corporate expenses. Results of Operations Revenues Our total revenues for the three months ended April 30, 2024, and 2023, were as follows (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended April 30, 2024 2023 Subscription services $ 1,815 $ 1,528 Professional services 175 156 Total revenues $ 1,990 $ 1,684 Total revenues were $2.0 billion for the three months ended April 30, 2024, compared to $1.7 billion for the prior year period, an increase of $305 million, or 18%. Subscription services revenues were $1.8 billion for the three months ended April 30, 2024, compared to $1.5 billion for the prior year period, an increase of $288 million, or 19%. The increase in subscription services revenues was primarily due to an increased number of new customers, expansion of our product offerings sold to existing customers, and strong customer renewals, with gross and net retention rates over 95% and over 100%, respectively. Professional services revenues were $175 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024, compared to $156 million for the prior year period, an increase of $18 million, or 11%. The increase in professional services revenues was primarily due to variations in project size and mix of deployment and integration services provided. 29 Table of Contents Subscription Revenue Backlog As of April 30, 2024, our total subscription revenue backlog was $20.7 billion, with $6.6 billion and $11.6 billion expected to be recognized in revenues over the next 12 and 24 months, respectively. As of April 30, 2023, our total subscription revenue backlog was $16.7 billion, with $5.6 billion and $9.8 billion expected to be recognized in revenues over the next 12 and 24 months, respectively. The increase in subscription revenue backlog was primarily driven by an increased number of new customers, timing of renewals for existing customers, expansion of our product offerings sold to existing customers, and longer duration of customer contracts. Costs and Expenses Our costs and expenses for the three months ended April 30, 2024, and 2023, were as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended April 30, 2024 2023 Costs of subscription services $ 290 $ 239 Costs of professional services 199 178 Product development 656 600 Sales and marketing 573 519 General and administrative 208 168 Total costs and expenses $ 1,926 $ 1,704 Total costs and expenses were $1.9 billion for the three months ended April 30, 2024, compared to $1.7 billion for the prior year period, an increase of $222 million, or 13%. The increase in GAAP operating expenses included increases of $154 million in employee-related expenses, including share-based compensation, primarily due to higher average headcount, $17 million in professional services and subcontractor expenses, $11 million in expenses for data center capacity, and $11 million in amortization of deferred sales commissions due to increased sales. Costs of Subscription Services Costs of subscription services were $290 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024, compared to $239 million for the prior year period, an increase of $51 million, or 21%. The increase in costs of subscription services included increases of $36 million in employee-related expenses, including share-based compensation, primarily due to higher average headcount and $9 million in expenses for data center capacity. We expect costs of subscription services will continue to increase in absolute dollars as we improve and expand our technical operations infrastructure, including our data centers and computing infrastructure operated by third parties. Costs of Professional Services Costs of professional services were $199 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024, compared to $178 million for the prior year period, an increase of $20 million, or 11%. The increase in costs of professional services included increases of $11 million in professional services and subcontractor expenses and $7 million in employee-related expenses, including share-based compensation. We expect costs of professional services as a percentage of total revenues to continue to decline as we continue to rely on our service partners to deploy our applications and as our subscription services revenues continue to grow as we expand both our customer base and our footprint within our existing customers. Product Development Product development expenses were $656 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024, compared to $600 million for the prior year period, an increase of $56 million, or 9%. The increase in product development expenses included an increase of $49 million in employee-related expenses, including share-based compensation, primarily due to higher average headcount. We expect product development expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars as we improve and extend our applications and develop new technologies, including costs incurred for hardware maintenance, data center capacity, facility costs, and IT-related expenses. 30 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses were $573 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024, compared to $519 million for the prior year period, an increase of $54 million, or 10%. The increase in sales and marketing expenses included increases of $35 million in employee-related expenses, including share-based compensation, primarily due to higher average headcount and $11 million in amortization of deferred sales commissions due to increased sales. We expect sales and marketing expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest in our domestic and international selling and marketing activities to expand awareness of our brand and product offerings to attract new and existing customers. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses were $208 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024, compared to $168 million for the prior year period, an increase of $41 million, or 25%. The increase in general and administrative expenses included increases of $27 million in employee-related expenses, including share-based compensation, primarily due to higher average headcount and $8 million in realignment costs. We expect general and administrative expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars as we invest in our general and administrative organizations to support business growth. Share-Based Compensation Costs and expenses include share-based compensation expenses as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended April 30, 2024 2023 Costs of subscription services $ 38 $ 29 Costs of professional services 31 30 Product development 173 170 Sales and marketing 72 80 General and administrative 71 60 Total share-based compensation expenses $ 385 $ 369 Percentage of total revenues 19.3 % 21.9 % Share-based compensation expenses increased by $16 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024, compared to the prior year period, primarily due to additional grants to new and existing employees. Equity compensation is an important element of our compensation philosophy. While we expect share-based compensation expense to grow in absolute dollars as we expand our global workforce, we expect it to continue to decline as a percentage of total revenues. Operating Income (Loss) and Operating Margin GAAP operating income (loss) increased from $(20) million, or (1.2)% of revenues, for the three months ended April 30, 2023, to $64 million, or 3.2% of revenues, for the three months ended April 30, 2024, primarily due to our revenue growth outpacing headcount growth and moderation of operating expenses. Non-GAAP operating income increased from $396 million, or 23.5% of revenues, for the three months ended April 30, 2023, to $515 million, or 25.9% of revenues, for the three months ended April 30, 2024, primarily due to our revenue growth outpacing headcount growth and moderation of operating expenses. 31 Table of Contents Reconciliations of our GAAP to non-GAAP operating income (loss) and operating margin were as follows (in millions, except percentages). See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for further information. Three Months Ended April 30, 2024 2023 Operating income (loss) $ 64 $ (20) Share-based compensation expenses 385 369 Employer payroll tax-related items on employee stock transactions 38 26 Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets 17 21 Acquisition-related costs 3 0 Realignment costs 8 0 Non-GAAP operating income (loss) $ 515 $ 396 Operating margin 3.2 % (1.2) % Share-based compensation expenses 19.3 % 21.9 % Employer payroll tax-related items on employee stock transactions 1.9 % 1.5 % Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets 0.9 % 1.3 % Acquisition-related costs 0.2 % 0.0 % Realignment costs 0.4 % 0.0 % Non-GAAP operating margin 25.9 % 23.5 % Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consisted of the following (in millions): Three Months Ended April 30, 2024 2023 Total other income (expense), net $ 59 $ 27 Other income, net increased by $33 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024, compared to the prior year period, primarily driven by an increase in interest income on our marketable securities from higher investment balances and increased interest rates. Provision For (Benefit From) Income Taxes The provision for (benefit from) income taxes consisted of the following (in millions): Three Months Ended April 30, 2024 2023 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 16 $ 7 The income tax provision for the three months ended April 30, 2024, was primarily attributable to earnings in U.S. and profitable foreign jurisdictions, offset by the excess tax benefit from stock-based compensation. The income tax provision for the three months ended April 30, 2023, was primarily attributable to income tax expenses in profitable foreign jurisdictions and an increase in U.S. taxes due to capitalized research and development expenditures. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) released Pillar Two model rules defining a 15% global minimum tax for large multinational corporations. The OECD continues to release additional guidance and countries are implementing legislation with widespread adoption of the Pillar Two Framework expected in the near future. We are in the process of evaluating the potential impacts of Pillar Two. While we do not currently expect Pillar Two to have a material impact on our effective tax rate, our analysis is ongoing and incomplete, and it is possible that Pillar Two could have a material adverse effect on our tax liability. For further information, see Note 17, Income Taxes, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this report. 32 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources As of April 30, 2024, our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities totaling $7.2 billion, which were primarily held for working capital and general corporate purposes. Our cash equivalents and marketable securities are composed of, in order from largest to smallest, corporate bonds, U.S. treasury securities, commercial paper, money market funds, and U.S. agency obligations. We have financed our operations primarily through customer payments, issuance of debt, and sales of our common stock. We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, cash provided by operating activities, unbilled amounts related to the remaining term of contracted noncancelable subscription agreements, which are not reflected on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, and, if necessary, our borrowing capacity under our 2022 Credit Agreement that provides for $1.0 billion of unsecured financing, are sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditure, and debt repayment needs over the next 12 months and beyond. Our long-term future capital requirements depend on many factors, including the effects of macroeconomic trends, customer growth rates, subscription renewal activity, headcount growth, the timing and extent of development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the introduction of new and enhanced services offerings, the timing and costs associated with the construction or acquisition of additional facilities, and our investment and acquisition activities. As part of our strategy, we may choose to seek additional debt or equity financing. Our cash flows for the three months ended April 30, 2024, and 2023, were as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended April 30, 2024 2023 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 372 $ 277 Investing activities (258) (713) Financing activities (367) (2) Effect of exchange rate changes 0 (1) Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ (253) $ (439) Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities was $372 million and $277 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024, and 2023, respectively. The improvement in cash flow provided by operating activities was primarily due to increases in sales and the related cash collections and interest received from marketable debt securities, offset by higher cash paid for employee-related expenses primarily due to higher average headcount. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities for the three months ended April 30, 2024, was $258 million, which was primarily related to cash consideration of $512 million for the acquisition of HiredScore, net of cash acquired, and capital expenditures of $81 million for data center and office space projects, offset by proceeds of $335 million from net maturities and sales of marketable debt securities. Cash used in investing activities for the three months ended April 30, 2023, was $713 million, which primarily resulted from a cash outflow of $656 million from the timing of purchases and maturities of marketable securities and capital expenditures of $59 million for data center and office space projects, offset by proceeds of $22 million from sales of marketable securities. We expect capital expenditures will be approximately $330 million in fiscal 2025. This includes investments in our data centers, office facilities, and corporate IT infrastructure to support our continued growth. Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities was $367 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024, which consisted of taxes paid of $239 million related to net share settlement of equity awards and $128 million of repurchases of common stock under our share repurchase plans. Cash used in financing activities was $2 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023. 33 Table of Contents Free Cash Flows In evaluating our performance internally, we focus on long-term, sustainable growth in free cash flows. We define free cash flows, a non-GAAP financial measure, as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities minus capital expenditures. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for further information. Free cash flows improved to $291 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024, compared to $218 million for the prior year period. The improvement was primarily due to increases in sales and the related cash collections and interest received from marketable debt securities, offset by higher cash paid for employee-related expenses primarily due to higher average headcount and higher capital expenditures for data center and office space projects. Reconciliation of our GAAP net cash provided by (used in) operating activities to non-GAAP free cash flows is as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended April 30, 2024 2023 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 372 $ 277 Less: Capital expenditures (81) (59) Free cash flows $ 291 $ 218 Share Repurchase Program In November 2022, our Board of Directors authorized the 2022 Share Repurchase Program under which we were authorized to repurchase up to $500 million of our outstanding shares of Class A common stock. As of April 30, 2024, we had completed the repurchase authorization under this program. In February 2024, our Board of Directors authorized the 2024 Share Repurchase Program, under which we may repurchase up to an additional $500 million of our Class A common stock. For further information, see Note 14, Stockholders Equity, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this report. Contractual Obligations Our contractual obligations primarily consist of borrowings under our Senior Notes, agreements for third-party hosted infrastructure platforms for business operations, leases for office space and co-location facilities for data center capacity, and other purchase obligations entered into in the ordinary course of business. There have been no material changes outside the ordinary course of business to our contractual obligations disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation S-K Item 10(e), Use of non-GAAP financial measures in Commission filings, defines and prescribes the conditions for use of non-GAAP financial information. Our measures of non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margin, and free cash flows meet the definition of non-GAAP financial measures. Change in Non-GAAP Financial Measures Effective beginning fiscal 2025, we will exclude certain acquisition-related costs and realignment costs from our non-GAAP results as they may vary from period to period independent of the operating performance of our business. There was no impact to prior period amounts presented in this report as a result of this change since no qualifying costs were incurred in the first quarter of fiscal 2024. Non-GAAP Operating Income and Non-GAAP Operating Margin We use the non-GAAP financial measures of non-GAAP operating income and non-GAAP operating margin to understand and compare operating results across accounting periods, for internal budgeting and forecasting purposes, for short- and long-term operating plans, and to evaluate our financial performance. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures reflect our ongoing business in a manner that allows for meaningful period-to-period comparisons and analysis of trends in our business. 34 Table of Contents Our non-GAAP operating income and non-GAAP operating margin exclude the components listed below. For the reasons set forth below, we believe that excluding these components provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results and prospects in the same manner as management, in comparing financial results across accounting periods and to those of peer companies, and to better understand the long-term performance of our core business. Share-based compensation expenses. Share-based compensation primarily consists of non-cash expenses for employee RSUs and our ESPP, and includes share-based compensation associated with acquisitions. Although share-based compensation is an important aspect of the compensation of our employees and executives, this expense is determined using a number of factors, including our stock price, volatility, and forfeiture rates, that are beyond our control and generally unrelated to operational decisions and performance in any particular period. Further, share-based compensation expenses are not reflective of the value ultimately received by the grant recipients. Employer payroll tax-related items on employee stock transactions. We exclude the employer payroll tax-related items on employee stock transactions in order to show the full effect that excluding share-based compensation expenses has on our operating results. Similar to share-based compensation expenses, this tax expense is dependent on our stock price and other factors that are beyond our control and do not correlate to the operation of our business. Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets. For business combinations, we generally allocate a portion of the purchase price to intangible assets. The amount of the allocation is based on estimates and assumptions made by management and is subject to amortization. The amount of purchase price allocated to intangible assets and the term of the related amortization can vary significantly and are unique to each acquisition and thus we do not believe it is reflective of our ongoing operations. Although we exclude the amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets from these non-GAAP financial measures, we believe that it is important for investors to understand that such intangible assets were recorded as part of purchase accounting and contribute to revenue generation. Acquisition-related costs. Acquisition-related costs include direct transaction costs, such as due diligence and advisory fees, and certain compensation and integration-related expenses. We exclude the effects of acquisition-related costs as we believe these transaction-specific expenses are inconsistent in amount and frequency and do not correlate to the operation of our business. Realignment costs. Realignment costs are associated with a formal restructuring plan and are primarily related to employee severance, the closure of facilities, and cancellation of certain contracts. We exclude these expenses because they are not reflective of ongoing business and operating results. Free Cash Flows We define free cash flows as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities minus capital expenditures. We use free cash flows as a measure of financial progress in our business, as it balances operating results, cash management, and capital efficiency. We believe information regarding free cash flows provides investors and others with an enhanced view of cash flow generation from the ongoing operations of our business. Limitations on the Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures A limitation of our non-GAAP financial measures of non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margin, and free cash flows is that they do not have uniform definitions. Our definitions will likely differ from the definitions used by other companies, including peer companies, and therefore comparability may be limited. Further, these non-GAAP financial measures have certain limitations as they do not reflect all items of expense or cash that affect our operations and are reflected in the corresponding GAAP financial measures. In the case of share-based compensation, if we did not pay out a portion of compensation in the form of share-based compensation, the cash salary expense included in operating expenses would be higher, which would affect our cash position. We compensate for these limitations by reconciling the non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or in isolation from, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. We encourage investors and others to review our financial information in its entirety, not to rely on any single financial measure, and to view our non-GAAP financial measures in conjunction with the most comparable GAAP financial measures. 35 Table of Contents See Results of OperationsOperating Income (Loss) and Operating Margin for reconciliations from the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures of GAAP operating income (loss) and GAAP operating margin, to the non-GAAP financial measures of non-GAAP operating income and non-GAAP operating margin, for the three months ended April 30, 2024, and 2023. See Liquidity and Capital ResourcesFree Cash Flows for a reconciliation from the most comparable GAAP financial measure, net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, to the non-GAAP financial measure, free cash flows, for the three months ended April 30, 2024, and 2023. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, judgments, and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe that the following critical accounting policies involve a high degree of judgment and complexity, and are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our financial condition and operating results: Revenue recognition Deferred commissions Income taxes Business combinations, goodwill, and acquisition-related intangible assets Non-marketable equity investments For a further discussion of our critical accounting policies, refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024. During the three months ended April 30, 2024, there were no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates. 36 Table of Contents