ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this report. Overview Workday provides financial management, human capital management, and analytics applications designed for the world's largest companies, educational institutions, and government agencies. We offer innovative and adaptable technology focused on the consumer Internet experience and cloud delivery model. Our applications are designed for global enterprises to manage complex and dynamic operating environments. We provide our customers highly adaptable, accessible, and reliable applications to manage critical business functions that enable them to optimize their financial and human capital resources. We were founded in 2005 to deliver cloud applications to global enterprises. Our applications are designed around the way people work todayin an environment that is global, collaborative, fast-paced, and mobile. Our cycle of frequent updates has facilitated rapid innovation and the introduction of new applications throughout our history. We began offering our HCM application in 2006 and our Financial Management application in 2007. Since then we have continued to invest in innovation and have consistently introduced new services to our customers. We offer Workday applications to our customers on an enterprise-wide subscription basis, typically with contract terms of three years or longer and with subscription fees largely based on the size of the customers workforce. We generally recognize revenues from subscription fees ratably over the term of the contract. We currently derive a substantial majority of our subscription services revenues from subscriptions to our HCM application. We market our applications through our direct sales force. Our diverse customer base includes medium-sized and large, global companies. We have achieved significant growth in a relatively short period of time with a substantial amount of our growth coming from new customers. Our current financial focus is on growing our revenues and expanding our customer base. While we are incurring losses today, we strive to invest in a disciplined manner across all of our functional areas to sustain continued near-term revenue growth and support our long-term initiatives. Our operating expenses have increased significantly in absolute dollars in recent periods, primarily due to the significant growth of our employee population. We had approximately 8,600 and approximately 6,900 employees as of April 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. 24 Table of Contents We intend to continue investing for long-term growth. We have invested, and expect to continue to invest, heavily in our product development efforts to deliver additional compelling applications and to address customers evolving needs. In addition, we plan to continue to expand our ability to sell our applications globally, particularly in Europe and Asia, by investing in product development and customer support to address the business needs of local markets, increasing our sales and marketing organizations, acquiring, building and/or leasing additional office space, and expanding our ecosystem of service partners to support local deployments. We expect to make further significant investments in our data center infrastructure as we plan for future growth. We are also investing in personnel to service our growing customer base. These investments will increase our costs on an absolute basis in the near-term. Many of these investments will occur in advance of experiencing any direct benefit from them and will make it difficult to determine if we are allocating our resources efficiently. We expect our product development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses as a percentage of total revenues to decrease over time as we grow our revenues, and we anticipate that we will gain economies of scale by increasing our customer base without direct incremental development costs and by utilizing more of the capacity of our data centers. Since inception, we have invested heavily in our professional services organization to help ensure that customers successfully deploy and adopt our applications. Additionally, we continue to expand our professional service partner ecosystem to further support our customers. We believe our investment in professional services, as well as partners building consulting practices around Workday, will drive additional customer subscriptions and continued growth in revenues. Due to our ability to leverage the expanding partner ecosystem, we expect that the rate of professional services revenue growth will decline over time and continue to be lower than subscription revenue growth. Components of Results of Operations Revenues We primarily derive our revenues from subscription services and professional services. Subscription services revenues primarily consist of fees that give our customers access to our cloud applications, which include related customer support. Professional services fees include deployment services, optimization services, and training. Subscription services revenues accounted for 84% of our total revenues during the three months ended April 30, 2018 and represented 96% of our total unearned revenue as of April 30, 2018 . Subscription services revenues are driven primarily by the number of customers, the number of workers at each customer, the specific applications subscribed to by each customer, and the price of our applications. The mix of the applications to which a customer subscribes can affect our financial performance due to price differentials in our applications. Pricing for our applications varies based on many factors, including the complexity and maturity of the application and its acceptance in the marketplace. New products or services offerings by competitors in the future could also impact the mix and pricing of our offerings. Subscription services revenues are recognized over time as they are delivered and consumed concurrently over the contractual term, beginning on the date our service is made available to the customer. Our subscription contracts typically have a term of three years or longer and are generally non-cancelable. We generally invoice our customers annually in advance. Amounts that have been invoiced are initially recorded as unearned revenue. The majority of our consulting engagements are billed on a time and materials basis, and revenues are typically recognized over time as the services are performed. In some cases, we supplement our consulting teams by subcontracting resources from our service partners and deploying them on customer engagements. As our professional services organization and the Workday-related consulting practices of our partner firms continue to develop, we expect the partners to increasingly contract directly with our subscription customers. As a result of this trend, and the increase of our subscription services revenues, we expect professional services revenues as a percentage of total revenues to decline over time. Costs and Expenses Costs of subscription services revenues. Costs of subscription services revenues consist primarily of employee-related expenses related to hosting our applications and providing customer support, the costs of data center capacity, and depreciation of computer equipment and software. Costs of professional services revenues . Costs of professional services revenues consist primarily of employee-related expenses associated with these services, the cost of subcontractors, and travel. Product development . Product development expenses consist primarily of employee-related costs. We continue to focus our product development efforts on adding new features and applications, increasing the functionality, and enhancing the ease of use of our cloud applications. 25 Table of Contents Sales and marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of employee-related costs, sales commissions, marketing programs, and travel. Marketing programs consist of advertising, events, corporate communications, brand building, and product marketing activities. Sales commissions are considered incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a customer and are deferred and amortized. Sales commissions for initial contracts are deferred and then amortized on a straight-line basis over a period of benefit that we have determined to be five years. Sales commissions for renewal contracts are deferred and then amortized on a straight-line basis over the related contractual renewal period. General and administrative . General and administrative expenses consist of employee-related costs for finance and accounting, legal, human resources, information systems personnel, professional fees, and other corporate expenses. Results of Operations Revenues Our total revenues for the three months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017 were as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended April 30, 2018 2017 % Change Revenues: Subscription services $ 522,149 $ 399,736 31% Professional services 96,494 80,125 20% Total revenues $ 618,643 $ 479,861 29% Total revenues were $619 million for the three months ended April 30, 2018 , compared to $480 million during the prior year period, an increase of $139 million , or 29% . Subscription services revenues were $522 million for the three months ended April 30, 2018 , compared to $400 million for the prior year period, an increase of $122 million , or 31% . The increase in subscription services revenues was due primarily to an increased number of customer contracts as compared to the prior year period. Professional services revenues were $96 million for the three months ended April 30, 2018 , compared to $80 million for the prior year period, an increase of $16 million , or 20% . The increase in professional services revenues was due primarily to the addition of new customers and Workday performing deployment and integration services for a greater number of customers than in the prior year period. Operating Expenses GAAP operating expenses were $690 million for the three months ended April 30, 2018 , compared to $540 million for the prior year period, an increase of $150 million , or 28% . The increase was primarily due to an increase of $114 million in employee-related costs driven by higher headcount, $7 million in facility and IT-related expenses, $7 million in third-party costs for hardware maintenance and data center capacity, $7 million in depreciation and amortization expenses, and $7 million in marketing expenses. We use the non-GAAP financial measure of non-GAAP operating expenses to understand and compare operating results across accounting periods, for internal budgeting and forecasting purposes, for short- and long-term operating plans, and to evaluate our financial performance and the ability of operations to generate cash. We believe that non-GAAP operating expenses reflect our ongoing business in a manner that allows for meaningful period-to-period comparisons and analysis of trends in our business, as they exclude expenses that are not reflective of ongoing operating results. We also believe that non-GAAP operating expenses provide useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results and prospects in the same manner as management and in comparing financial results across accounting periods and to those of peer companies. Non-GAAP operating expenses are calculated by excluding share-based compensation expenses, and certain other expenses, which consist of employer payroll tax-related items on employee stock transactions and amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets. Non-GAAP operating expenses were $538 million for the three months ended April 30, 2018 , compared to $419 million for the prior year period, an increase of $119 million , or 28% . The increase was primarily due to an increase of $84 million in employee-related costs driven by higher headcount, $7 million in facility and IT-related expenses, $7 million in third-party costs for hardware maintenance and data center capacity, $7 million in depreciation and amortization expenses, and $7 million in marketing expenses. 26 Table of Contents Reconciliations of our GAAP to non-GAAP operating expenses were as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended April 30, 2018 GAAP Operating Expenses Share-Based Compensation Expenses (1) Other Operating Expenses (2) Non-GAAP Operating Expenses (3) Costs of subscription services $ 80,245 $ (7,877 ) $ (4,452 ) $ 67,916 Costs of professional services 97,726 (10,792 ) (1,701 ) 85,233 Product development 263,584 (68,511 ) (8,797 ) 186,276 Sales and marketing 192,771 (25,612 ) (2,580 ) 164,579 General and administrative 55,581 (19,867 ) (1,867 ) 33,847 Total costs and expenses $ 689,907 $ (132,659 ) $ (19,397 ) $ 537,851 Three Months Ended April 30, 2017 GAAP Operating Expenses Share-Based Compensation Expenses (1) Other Operating Expenses (2) Non-GAAP Operating Expenses (3) Costs of subscription services $ 59,798 $ (5,691 ) $ (546 ) $ 53,561 Costs of professional services 76,913 (8,021 ) (906 ) 67,986 Product development 196,439 (51,029 ) (8,962 ) 136,448 Sales and marketing 155,709 (23,159 ) (1,674 ) 130,876 General and administrative 51,202 (19,888 ) (1,318 ) 29,996 Total costs and expenses $ 540,061 $ (107,788 ) $ (13,406 ) $ 418,867 (1) Share-based compensation expenses were $133 million and $108 million for the three months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. The increase in share-based compensation expenses was primarily due to grants of restricted stock units ("RSUs") to existing and new employees. (2) Other operating expenses include employer payroll tax-related items on employee stock transactions of $14 million and $8 million for the three months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. In addition, other operating expenses included amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets of $5 million for each of the three month periods ended April 30, 2018 and 2017 . (3) See "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" below for further information. Costs of Subscription Services See the table above for a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP operating expenses. GAAP operating expenses in costs of subscription services were $80 million for the three months ended April 30, 2018 , compared to $60 million for the prior year period, an increase of $20 million , or 33%. The increase was primarily due to increases of $8 million in employee-related costs driven by higher headcount, $7 million in depreciation expense related to equipment in our data centers, and $4 million in third-party costs for hardware maintenance and data center capacity. Non-GAAP operating expenses in costs of subscription services were $68 million for the three months ended April 30, 2018 , compared to $54 million for the prior year period, an increase of $14 million , or 26%. The increase was primarily due to increases of $6 million in employee-related costs driven by higher headcount, $4 million in third-party costs for hardware maintenance and data center capacity, and $3 million in depreciation expense related to equipment in our data centers. We expect that GAAP and non-GAAP operating expenses in costs of subscription services will continue to increase in absolute dollars as we improve and expand our data center capacity and operations. Costs of Professional Services See the table above for a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP operating expenses. GAAP operating expenses in costs of professional services were $98 million for the three months ended April 30, 2018 , compared to $77 million for the prior year period, an increase of $21 million , or 27% . The increase was primarily due to additional costs of $17 million to staff our deployment and integration engagements and $2 million in facility and IT-related expenses. 27 Table of Contents Non-GAAP operating expenses in costs of professional services were $85 million for the three months ended April 30, 2018 , compared to $68 million for the prior year period, an increase of $17 million , or 25% . The increase was primarily due to additional costs of $14 million to staff our deployment and integration engagements and $2 million in facility and IT-related expenses. Going forward, we expect GAAP and non-GAAP costs of professional services as a percentage of total revenues to continue to decline as we increasingly rely on our service partners to deploy our applications and as the number of our customers continues to grow. For fiscal 2019, we anticipate GAAP and non-GAAP professional services margins to be lower than fiscal 2018 as we invest in programs to ensure ongoing customer success. Product Development See the table above for a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP operating expenses. GAAP operating expenses in product development were $264 million for the three months ended April 30, 2018 , compared to $196 million for the prior year period, an increase of $68 million, or 35%. The increase was primarily due to increases of $58 million in employee-related costs driven by higher headcount and $9 million in facility and IT-related expenses. Non-GAAP operating expenses in product development were $186 million for the three months ended April 30, 2018 , compared to $136 million for the prior year period, an increase of $50 million , or 37% . The increase was primarily due to increases of $37 million in employee-related costs driven by higher headcount and $9 million in facility and IT-related expenses. We expect that GAAP and non-GAAP product development expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars as we improve and expand our applications and develop new technologies. Sales and Marketing See the table above for a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP operating expenses. GAAP operating expenses in sales and marketing were $193 million for the three months ended April 30, 2018 , compared to $156 million for the prior year period, an increase of $37 million , or 24% . The increase was primarily due to increases of $25 million in employee-related costs driven by higher headcount and higher commissionable sales volume, $7 million in advertising, marketing, and event costs, and $3 million in facility and IT-related expenses. Non-GAAP operating expenses in sales and marketing were $165 million for the three months ended April 30, 2018 , compared to $131 million for the prior year period, an increase of $34 million , or 26% . The increase was primarily due to increases of $22 million in employee-related costs driven by higher headcount and higher commissionable sales volume, $7 million in advertising, marketing, and event costs, and $3 million in facility and IT-related expenses. We expect that GAAP and non-GAAP sales and marketing expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest in the expansion of our domestic and international selling and marketing activities to build brand awareness and attract new customers. General and Administrative See the table above for a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP operating expenses. GAAP operating expenses in general and administrative were $56 million for the three months ended April 30, 2018 , compared to $51 million for the prior year period, an increase of $5 million, or 10%. The increase was primarily due to additional employee-related costs driven by higher headcount. Non-GAAP operating expenses in general and administrative were $34 million for the three months ended April 30, 2018 , compared to $30 million for the prior year period, an increase of $4 million , or 13% . The increase was primarily due to additional employee-related costs driven by higher headcount. We expect GAAP and non-GAAP general and administrative expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars as we further invest in our infrastructure and support our global expansion. 28 Table of Contents Operating Margins GAAP operating margins improved from (12.5)% for the three months ended April 30, 2017 to (11.5)% for the three months ended April 30, 2018 . The improvements in our GAAP operating margins in the three months ended April 30, 2018 were primarily due to higher subscription services revenues, higher professional services revenues, and improvements in operating leverage. We use the non-GAAP financial measure of non-GAAP operating margins to understand and compare operating results across accounting periods, for internal budgeting and forecasting purposes, for short- and long-term operating plans, and to evaluate our financial performance and the ability of operations to generate cash. We believe that non-GAAP operating margins reflect our ongoing business in a manner that allows for meaningful period-to-period comparisons and analysis of trends in our business, as they exclude expenses that are not reflective of ongoing operating results. We also believe that non-GAAP operating margins provide useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results and prospects in the same manner as management and in comparing financial results across accounting periods and to those of peer companies. Non-GAAP operating margins are calculated using GAAP revenues and non-GAAP operating expenses. See "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" below for further information. Non-GAAP operating margins improved from 12.7% for the three months ended April 30, 2017 to 13.1% for the three months ended April 30, 2018 . The improvements in our non-GAAP operating margins in the three months ended April 30, 2018 were primarily due to higher subscription services revenues, higher professional services revenues, and improvements in operating leverage. Reconciliations of our GAAP to non-GAAP operating margins were as follows: Three Months Ended April 30, 2018 GAAP Operating Expenses Share-Based Compensation Expenses Other Operating Expenses Non-GAAP Operating Expenses (1) Operating margin (11.5 )% 21.4 % 3.2 % 13.1 % Three Months Ended April 30, 2017 GAAP Operating Expenses Share-Based Compensation Expenses Other Operating Expenses Non-GAAP Operating Expenses (1) Operating margin (12.5 )% 22.5 % 2.7 % 12.7 % (1) See "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" below for further information. Other Income (Expense), Net Other expense, net, increased $2 million for the three months ended April 30, 2018 as compared to the prior year period. The increase was primarily due to interest expense of $11 million related to the 0.25% convertible senior notes issued in September 2017, offset by an increase in interest income of $8 million. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of April 30, 2018 , our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities totaling $3.4 billion , which were held for working capital purposes. Our cash equivalents and marketable securities are composed primarily of U.S. agency obligations, U.S. treasury securities, corporate bonds, commercial paper, and money market funds. We have financed our operations primarily through customer payments, sales of equity securities, and issuance of debt. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our customer growth rate, subscription renewal activity, the timing of construction of facilities in Pleasanton, California and the acquisition of additional facilities, the timing and extent of development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the introduction of new and enhanced services offerings, the continuing market acceptance of our services, and acquisition activities. We may enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services, technologies, or intellectual property rights in the future. We also may choose to seek additional equity or debt financing. 29 Table of Contents Our cash flows for the three months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017 were as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended April 30, 2018 2017 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 184,233 $ 180,022 Investing activities (284,586 ) (222,889 ) Financing activities 2,554 2,209 Effect of exchange rate changes (420 ) (132 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (98,219 ) $ (40,790 ) Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities was $184 million and $180 million for the three months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. The improvement in cash flow provided by operating activities was primarily due to increases in sales and the related cash collections, partially offset by higher operating expenses driven by increased headcount. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities for the three months ended April 30, 2018 was $285 million , which was primarily the result of the timing of purchases and maturities of marketable securities, capital expenditures related to the construction of our development center of $32 million, capital expenditures for data center and office space projects of $49 million , and purchases of non-marketable equity and other investments of $2 million . These payments were partially offset by proceeds of $27 million from the sale of marketable securities. Cash used in investing activities for the three months ended April 30, 2017 was $223 million , which was primarily the result of the timing of purchases and maturities of marketable securities, capital expenditures for owned real estate projects (including construction of our development center) of $30 million, and capital expenditures for data center and office space projects of $31 million. These payments were partially offset by proceeds of $9 million from the sale of marketable securities. We expect capital expenditures related to the construction of our development center will be approximately $200 million for fiscal 2019. We expect capital expenditures, excluding the development center project, will be approximately $200 million for fiscal 2019. We expect that these capital outlays will largely be used to expand the infrastructure of our data centers and to build out additional office space to support our growth. Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities was $3 million and $2 million for the three months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively, which was primarily due to proceeds from the issuance of common stock from employee equity plans. Convertible Senior Notes In June 2013, we completed an offering of $350 million of 0.75% convertible senior notes due July 15, 2018 ("2018 Notes"), and we concurrently issued an additional $250 million of 1.50% convertible senior notes due July 15, 2020 ("2020 Notes"). In September 2017, we completed an offering of $1.15 billion of 0.25% convertible senior notes due October 1, 2022 ("2022 Notes" and together with the 2018 Notes and 2020 Notes, referred to as the "Notes"). Holders may convert the Notes prior to maturity upon the occurrence of certain circumstances. Upon conversion, holders of the Notes will receive cash, shares of Class A common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of Class A common stock, at our election. It is our intent to settle the 2018 Notes and 2020 Notes using a combination of cash and shares of Class A common stock. The 2018 Notes were convertible beginning on March 15, 2018 and are classified as current liabilities on the condensed consolidated balance sheets as they are due within one year. As of the date of this filing, the note holders of the 2018 Notes have not submitted requests for conversion. The 2020 Notes are convertible at the option of the holders during the second quarter of fiscal 2019 since the trigger for early conversion was met. Specifically, the last reported sale price of our Class A common stock exceeded 130% of the conversion price of the 2020 Notes for more than 20 trading days during the 30 consecutive trading days ended April 30, 2018. The 2020 Notes were reclassified to current liabilities on the condensed consolidated balance sheet as of April 30, 2018. As of the date of this filing, the note holders of the 2020 Notes have not submitted requests for conversion. 30 Table of Contents Free Cash Flows In evaluating our performance internally, we focus on long-term, sustainable growth in free cash flows. We define free cash flows, a non-GAAP financial measure, as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities minus capital expenditures (excluding owned real estate projects). See "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" below for further information. Free cash flows decreased by $14 million to $135 million for the three months ended April 30, 2018 , compared to $149 million for the prior year period. The decrease was primarily due to an increase in capital expenditures (excluding owned real estate projects) and higher operating expenses driven by increased headcount, partially offset by increases in sales and the related cash collections. Reconciliations of Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities to free cash flows were as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended April 30, Trailing Twelve Months Ended April 30, 2018 2017 2018 2017 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 184,233 $ 180,022 $ 469,938 $ 367,831 Capital expenditures, excluding owned real estate projects (48,862 ) (30,593 ) (159,805 ) (116,928 ) Free cash flows $ 135,371 $ 149,429 $ 310,133 $ 250,903 31 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation S-K Item 10(e), "Use of non-GAAP financial measures in Commission filings," defines and prescribes the conditions for use of non-GAAP financial information. Our measures of non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating margin, and free cash flows each meet the definition of a non-GAAP financial measure. Non-GAAP Operating Expenses and Non-GAAP Operating Margins We define non-GAAP operating expenses as our total operating expenses excluding the following components, which we believe are not reflective of our ongoing operational expenses. Similarly, the same components are also excluded from the calculation of non-GAAP operating margins. In each case, for the reasons set forth below, management believes that excluding the component provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results and prospects in the same manner as management, in comparing financial results across accounting periods and to those of peer companies, and to better understand the long-term performance of our core business. Share-Based Compensation Expenses. Although share-based compensation is an important aspect of the compensation of our employees and executives, management believes it is useful to exclude share-based compensation expenses to better understand the long-term performance of our core business and to facilitate comparison of our results to those of peer companies. Share-based compensation expenses are determined using a number of factors, including our stock price, volatility, and forfeitures rates that are beyond our control and generally unrelated to operational decisions and performance in any particular period. Further, share-based compensation expenses are not reflective of the value ultimately received by the grant recipients. Other Operating Expenses. Other operating expenses includes employer payroll tax-related items on employee stock transactions and amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets. The amount of employer payroll tax-related items on employee stock transactions is dependent on our stock price and other factors that are beyond our control and do not correlate to the operation of the business. For business combinations, we generally allocate a portion of the purchase price to intangible assets. The amount of the allocation is based on estimates and assumptions made by management and is subject to amortization. The amount of purchase price allocated to intangible assets and the term of its related amortization can vary significantly and are unique to each acquisition and thus we do not believe it is reflective of our ongoing operations. Free Cash Flows We define free cash flows as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities minus capital expenditures (excluding owned real estate projects). Capital expenditures deducted from cash flows from operations do not include purchases of land and buildings, and construction costs related to our new development center and other owned buildings. We exclude these owned real estate projects as they are infrequent in nature. For the current fiscal year, these costs primarily represent the construction of our new development center, which is anticipated to be completed in fiscal 2020. We use free cash flows as a measure of financial progress in our business, as it balances operating results, cash management, and capital efficiency. We believe information regarding free cash flows provides investors and others with an important perspective on the cash available to make strategic acquisitions and investments, to fund ongoing operations, and to fund other capital expenditures. Limitations on the Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures A limitation of our non-GAAP financial measures of non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating margin, and free cash flows is that they do not have uniform definitions. Our definitions will likely differ from the definitions used by other companies, including peer companies, and therefore comparability may be limited. Further, the non-GAAP financial measure of non-GAAP operating expenses has certain limitations because it does not reflect all items of expense that affect our operations and are reflected in the GAAP financial measure of total operating expenses. In the case of share-based compensation, if we did not pay out a portion of compensation in the form of share-based compensation and related employer payroll tax-related items, the cash salary expense included in costs of revenues and operating expenses would be higher, which would affect our cash position. We compensate for these limitations by reconciling the non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or in isolation from, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. We encourage investors and others to review our financial information in its entirety, not to rely on any single financial measure, and to view our non-GAAP financial measures in conjunction with the most comparable GAAP financial measures. See Results of OperationsOperating Expenses and Results of OperationsOperating Margins for reconciliations from the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, GAAP operating expenses, and GAAP operating margins, to the non-GAAP financial measures, non-GAAP operating expenses, and non-GAAP operating margins, for the three months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017 . 32 Table of Contents See Liquidity and Capital ResourcesFree Cash Flows for a reconciliation from the most comparable GAAP financial measure, Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, to the non-GAAP financial measure, free cash flow, for the three months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017 . Contractual Obligations Our contractual obligations primarily consist of our convertible senior notes, as well as obligations under leases for office space, co-location facilities for data center capacity, and agreements related to computing infrastructure platforms for business operations. As of April 30, 2018 , the future non-cancelable minimum payments under operating leases and computing infrastructure agreements were $398 million. During the remainder of fiscal 2019, we anticipate leasing additional office space near our headquarters and in various other locations around the world to support our growth. In addition, our existing lease agreements often provide us with options to renew. We expect our future operating lease obligations will increase as we expand our operations. We are not required to make principal payments under the Notes prior to maturity. If the Notes are not converted to Class A common stock prior to their maturity dates, we are required to repay $350 million in principal on July 15, 2018, $250 million in principal on July 15, 2020, and $1.15 billion in principal on October 1, 2022. We are also required to make interest payments on a semi-annual basis at the interest rates described in Note 10 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. In January 2014, we entered into a 95-year lease for a 6.9-acre parcel of land in Pleasanton, California, under which we paid $2 million for base rent from commencement through December 31, 2020. Annual rent payments of $0.2 million plus increases based on increases in the consumer price index begin on January 1, 2021 and continue through the end of the lease. Our new development center, consisting of approximately 410,000 square feet of office space, is being constructed on this property. We do not consider outstanding purchase orders to be contractual obligations as they represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Through April 30, 2018 , we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated organizations or financial partnerships, such as structured finance or special purpose entities, that would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. During the three months ended April 30, 2018 , there were no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as described in the financial statements contained in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2018 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on March 14, 2018. 33 Table of Contents