ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this report. The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed below and elsewhere in this report, as well as in the section entitled Risk Factors. Overview Workday provides enterprise cloud applications for human capital management (HCM), payroll, financial management and analytics. We offer innovative and adaptable technology focused on the consumer Internet experience and cloud delivery model. Our applications are designed for global enterprises to manage complex and dynamic operating environments. We provide our customers highly adaptable, accessible and reliable applications to manage critical business functions that enable them to optimize their financial and human capital resources. We were founded in 2005 to deliver cloud applications to global enterprises. Our applications are designed around the way people work today in an environment that is global, collaborative, fast-paced and mobile. Our cycle of frequent updates has facilitated rapid innovation and the introduction of new applications throughout our history. We began offering our Human Capital Management (HCM) application in 2006. Since then we have continued to invest in innovation and have consistently introduced new services to our customers, including our Financial Management application in 2007, our Procurement and Employee Expense Management applications in 2008, our Payroll and mobile applications in 2009, our Talent Management application in 2010, our native iPad application and Workday integration platform in 2011, Time Tracking and Grants Management applications in 2012, Big Data Analytics in 2013 and Recruiting in 2014. We offer Workday applications to our customers on an enterprise-wide subscription basis, typically with three-year terms and with subscription fees largely based on the size of the customers workforce. We generally recognize revenues from subscription fees ratably over the term of the contract. We currently derive a substantial majority of our subscription services revenues from subscriptions to our HCM application. We market our applications primarily through our direct sales force. We have achieved significant growth in a relatively short period of time. Our diverse customer base includes large, global companies and our direct sales force targets organizations with more than 1,000 workers. As of April 30, 2014, we had more than 650 customers. A substantial majority of our growth comes from new customers. Our current financial focus is on growing our revenues and expanding our customer base. While we are incurring losses today, we strive to invest in a disciplined manner across all of our functional areas to sustain continued near-term revenue growth and support our long-term initiatives. Our operating expenses have increased significantly in absolute dollars in recent periods, primarily due to our significant growth in employees. We had more than 2,900 and more than 1,950 employees as of April 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively. We intend to continue investing for long-term growth. We have invested, and expect to continue to invest, heavily in our application development efforts to deliver additional compelling applications and to address customers evolving needs. In addition, we plan to continue to expand our sales and marketing organizations to sell our applications globally. We expect to make significant investments in our data center infrastructure in fiscal 2015 as we update our technology and plan for future customer growth. We are also investing in personnel to service our growing customer base. These investments will increase our costs on an absolute basis in the near-term. Many of these investments will occur in advance of experiencing any direct benefit from them and will make it difficult to determine if we are allocating our resources efficiently. As a result of these investments, we do not expect to be profitable in the near future. We expect our product development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues to decrease over time as we grow our revenues, and we anticipate that we will gain economies of scale by increasing our customer base without direct incremental development costs and by utilizing more of the capacity of our data centers. Since inception, we have invested heavily in our professional services organization to help ensure that customers successfully deploy and adopt our applications. Additionally, we continue to expand our professional services partner ecosystem to further support our customers. We believe our investment in professional services, as well as partners building consulting practices around Workday, will drive additional customer subscriptions and continued growth in revenues. In addition, over time we expect professional services revenues and the cost of professional services as a percentage of total revenues to decline as we increasingly rely on our partners to deploy Workday applications and as the number of our existing customers continues to grow. 19 Table of Contents Components of Results of Operations Revenues We primarily derive our revenues from subscription services fees and professional services fees. Subscription services revenues primarily consist of fees that give our customers access to our cloud applications, which include routine customer support at no additional cost. Professional services fees include deployment services, optimization services, and training. Subscription services revenues accounted for over 77% of our revenues during the three months ended April 30, 2014 and represented over 94% of our total unearned revenue as of April 30, 2014. Subscription services revenues are driven primarily by the number of customers, the number of workers at each customer, the number of applications subscribed to by each customer, the price of our applications, and to a lesser extent, renewal rates. To date, revenues from renewals have not been a substantial component of revenues. The mix of the applications to which a customer subscribes can affect our financial performance due to price differentials in our applications. Compared to our other offerings, our HCM application has been available for a longer period of time, is more established in the marketplace and has benefited from continued enhancements of the functionality over a longer period of time, all of which help us to improve our pricing for that application. However, new products or services offerings by competitors in the future could impact the mix and pricing of our offerings. Subscription services fees are recognized ratably as revenues over the contract term beginning on the date the application is made available to the customer, which is generally within one week of contract signing. Our subscription contracts typically have a term of three years and are non-cancelable. We generally invoice our customers in advance, in annual installments. Amounts that have been invoiced are initially recorded as unearned revenue. Amounts that have not been invoiced represent backlog and are not reflected in our condensed consolidated financial statements. Our consulting engagements are typically billed on a time and materials basis, and revenues are typically recognized as the services are performed. We offer a number of training options intended to support our customers in configuring, using and administering our services. In some cases, we supplement our consulting teams by subcontracting resources from our service partners and deploying them on customer engagements. As Workdays professional services organization and the Workday-related consulting practices of our partner firms continue to develop, we expect the partners to increasingly contract directly with our subscription customers. As a result of this trend, and the increase of our subscription services revenues, we expect professional services revenues as a percentage of total revenues to decline over time. Costs and Expenses Costs of subscription services revenues. Costs of subscription services revenues consist primarily of employee-related expenses related to hosting and supporting our applications, the costs of data center capacity, and depreciation of owned and leased computer equipment and software. Costs of professional services revenues . Costs of professional services revenues consist primarily of employee-related expenses associated with these services, the cost of subcontractors and travel costs. The percentage of total revenues derived from professional services was 23% for the three months ended April 30, 2014. The cost of providing professional services is significantly higher as a percentage of the related revenues than for our subscriptions. Product development . Product development expenses consist primarily of employee-related expenses. We continue to focus our product development efforts on adding new features and applications, increasing the functionality and enhancing the ease of use of our cloud applications. Sales and marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of employee-related expenses, sales commissions, marketing programs and travel related expenses. Marketing programs consist of advertising, events, corporate communications, brand building and product marketing activities. Commissions earned by our sales force that can be associated specifically with a non-cancelable subscription contract are deferred and amortized over the same period that revenues are recognized for the related non-cancelable contract. General and administrative . General and administrative expenses consist of employee-related expenses for finance and accounting, legal, human resources and management information systems personnel, legal costs, professional fees and other corporate expenses. 20 Table of Contents Results of Operations Revenues Our total revenues for the three months ended April 30, 2014 and 2013 were as follows: Three Months Ended April 30, % Change 2014 2013 (in thousands) Subscription services $ 123,407 $ 68,418 80 % Professional services 36,330 23,227 56 Total revenues $ 159,737 $ 91,645 74 Total revenues were $159.7 million for the three months ended April 30, 2014, compared to $91.6 million during the prior year period, an increase of $68.1 million, or 74%. Subscription services revenues were $123.4 million for the three months ended April 30, 2014, compared to $68.4 million for the prior year period, an increase of $55.0 million, or 80%. The increase in subscription revenues was due primarily to the recognition of revenue for an increased number of customer contracts as compared to the prior year period. Professional services revenues were $36.3 million for the three months ended April 30, 2014, compared to $23.2 million for the prior year period, an increase of $13.1 million, or 56%. The increase in professional services revenues was due primarily to the addition of new customers and a greater number of customers requesting deployment and integration services as compared to the prior year period. Core Operating Expenses Management uses the non-GAAP financial measure of core operating expenses to understand and compare operating results across accounting periods, for internal budgeting and forecasting purposes, for short- and long-term operating plans, and to evaluate our financial performance and the ability of operations to generate cash. Management believes that core operating expenses reflects our ongoing business in a manner that allows for meaningful period-to-period comparisons and analysis of trends in our business, as it excludes expenses that are not reflective of ongoing operating results. Management also believes that core operating expenses provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results and future prospects in the same manner as management and in comparing financial results across accounting periods and to those of peer companies. The following discussion of our core operating expenses and the components comprising our core operating expenses highlights the factors that our management focuses upon in evaluating our operating margin and operating expenses. The increases or decreases in operating expenses discussed in this section do not include changes relating to share-based compensation, and certain other expenses, which consist of employer payroll taxes on employee stock transactions and amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets. Information about our operating expenses is as follows: Three Months Ended April 30, 2014 Core Operating Expenses (1) Share-Based Compensation Expenses Other Operating Expenses Total Operating Expenses (in thousands) Costs of subscription services $ 20,358 $ 1,055 $ 46 $ 21,459 Costs of professional services 33,673 2,198 89 35,960 Product development 53,621 10,868 682 65,171 Sales and marketing 61,142 6,752 273 68,167 General and administrative 13,471 8,001 (409 ) 21,063 Total costs and expenses $ 182,265 $ 28,874 $ 681 $ 211,820 Operating loss $ (22,528 ) $ (28,874 ) $ (681 ) $ (52,083 ) Operating margin (14 )% (18 )% (1 )% (33 )% 21 Table of Contents Three Months Ended April 30, 2013 Core Operating Expenses (1) Share-Based Compensation Expenses Other Operating Expenses Total Operating Expenses (in thousands) Costs of subscription services $ 14,660 $ 262 $ 8 $ 14,930 Costs of professional services 21,001 475 293 21,769 Product development 34,143 1,907 232 36,282 Sales and marketing 37,230 1,043 91 38,364 General and administrative 9,142 3,729 53 12,924 Total costs and expenses $ 116,176 $ 7,416 $ 677 $ 124,269 Operating loss $ (24,531 ) $ (7,416 ) $ (677 ) $ (32,624 ) Operating margin (27 )% (8 )% (1 )% (36 )% (1) Core operating expenses is a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes share-based compensation and certain other operating expenses from our total operating expenses calculated in accordance with GAAP. The other operating expenses excluded are employer payroll taxes on employee stock transactions and amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for further information. Core operating margins Core operating margins, calculated using GAAP revenues and core operating expenses, improved from (27)% for the three months ended April 30, 2013 to (14)% for the three months ended April 30, 2014. The improvement in our core operating margins in the current period was primarily due to higher subscription services revenues. In evaluating our results, we generally focus on core operating expenses. We believe that our core operating expenses reflect our ongoing business in a manner that allows meaningful period-to-period comparisons. Our core operating expenses are reconciled to the most comparable U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) measure, total operating expenses, in the table above. Core operating expenses increased by $66.1 million, or 57% for the three months ended April 30, 2014 compared to the prior year period. As quantified below, the increase was primarily due to higher employee-related costs driven by higher headcount. Costs of subscription services Core operating expenses in costs of subscription services were $20.4 million for the three months ended April 30, 2014, compared to $14.7 million for the prior year period, an increase of $5.7 million, or 39%. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $2.8 million in depreciation expense related to our data centers, an increase of $1.9 million in employee-related costs driven by higher headcount and an increase of $1.4 million in service contracts expense to expand data center capacity. We expect that in the future, core operating expenses in costs of subscription services will continue to increase in absolute dollars as we improve and expand our data center capacity and operations. Costs of professional services Core operating expenses in costs of professional services were $33.7 million for the three months ended April 30, 2014, compared to $21.0 million for the prior year period, a $12.7 million increase, or 60%. This increase was primarily due to increases of $9.7 million to staff our deployment and integration engagements. Due to the large increase in demand for our professional services versus the prior year, we have increased both our internal professional service staff as well as third-party supplemental staff. Over time, we expect costs of professional services as a percentage of total revenues to decline as we increasingly rely on third parties to deploy our applications and as the number of our customers continues to grow. For the current fiscal year, we anticipate professional services margins to be lower than fiscal 2014 as we invest in deploying new customers in financial management applications, medium-size enterprise, and education and government categories, where the third party partner ecosystem is still maturing. Product development Core operating expenses in product development were $53.6 million for the three months ended April 30, 2014, compared to $34.1 million for the prior year period, an increase of $19.5 million, or 57%. The increase was primarily due to increases of $13.1 million in employee compensation costs due to higher headcount, $2.0 million in facility and IT-related expenses, $1.8 million in contracted costs and $1.3 million in depreciation expense for our development cloud data center. We expect that in the future, product development expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars as we improve and extend our applications and develop new technologies. 22 Table of Contents Sales and marketing Core operating expenses in sales and marketing were $61.1 million for the three months ended April 30, 2014, compared to $37.2 million for the prior year period, an increase of $23.9 million, or 64%. The increase was primarily due to increases of $17.2 million in employee compensation costs due to higher headcount and higher commissionable sales volume, $3.6 million in advertising, marketing and event costs, $1.7 million in facility and IT-related expenses and $1.5 million in travel expenses. We expect that sales and marketing expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars in the future as we continue to invest in sales and marketing by expanding our domestic and international selling and marketing activities, building brand awareness and attracting new customers. General and administrative Core operating expenses in general and administrative were $13.5 million for the three months ended April 30, 2014, compared to $9.1 million for the prior year period, an increase of $4.4 million, or 48%. The increase was primarily due to $3.5 million in higher employee compensation costs due to higher headcount. We expect general and administrative expenses will increase in absolute dollars as we invest in our infrastructure and incur additional employee-related costs, professional fees and insurance costs related to the growth of our business and international expansion. Share-Based Compensation Expenses Share-based compensation expenses were $28.9 million for the three months ended April 30, 2014, compared to $7.4 million for the prior year period. The increase in share-based compensation expenses was primarily due to grants of restricted stock units to existing and new employees during fiscal 2014 and the three months ended April 30, 2014. During the three months ended April 30, 2014, the realized excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation is immaterial. Other Operating Expenses Other operating expenses consisted of employer payroll tax on employee stock transactions for the three months ended April 30, 2014 and 2013 and amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets for the three months ended April 30, 2014. Other operating expenses were $0.7 million for both the three months ended April 30, 2014 and 2013. Other Expense, Net Other expense, net, was $7.0 million for the three months ended April 30, 2014, compared to $0.3 million for the prior year period, an increase of $6.7 million. The increase was primarily due to the interest expense related to our 0.75% convertible senior notes due July 15, 2018 (2018 Notes) and 1.50% convertible senior notes due July 15, 2020 (2020 Notes, and together with the 2018 Notes, the Notes), including the contractual cash interest expense of $1.6 million and non-cash interest expense related to amortization of the debt discount and amortization of debt issuance costs of $5.9 million. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of April 30, 2014, our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaling $1.9 billion, which were held for working capital purposes. Our cash equivalents and marketable securities are comprised primarily of U.S. agency obligations, U.S. treasury securities, commercial paper, money market funds, and U.S. corporate securities. We have financed our operations primarily through sales of equity securities, customer payments, and issuance of debt. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our customer growth rate, subscription renewal activity, the timing and extent of development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the introduction of new and enhanced services offerings, and the continuing market acceptance of our services. We may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services and technologies, and intellectual property rights. We may choose to seek additional equity or debt financing. 23 Table of Contents Our cash flows for the three months ended April 30, 2014 and 2013 were as follows: Three Months Ended April 30, 2014 2013 (in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 21,697 $ 17,310 Investing activities (352,366 ) 117,062 Financing activities (4,695 ) 820 Effect of exchange rate changes 39 (86 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (335,325 ) $ 135,106 In evaluating our performance internally, we focus on long-term, sustainable growth in free cash flows. We define free cash flows, a non-GAAP financial measure, as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities minus purchases of property and equipment, property and equipment acquired under capital leases and purchases of other (non-acquisition-related) intangible assets. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for further information. Our free cash flows were as follows: Three Months Ended April 30, Trailing Twelve Months Ended April 30, 2014 2013 2014 2013 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 21,697 $ 17,310 $ 50,650 $ 15,816 Purchases of property and equipment (9,873 ) (1,895 ) (68,703 ) (15,596 ) Property and equipment acquired under capital leases (115 ) (18,598 ) Purchase of other intangible assets (15,000 ) Free cash flows $ 11,824 $ 15,300 $ (33,053 ) $ (18,378 ) Operating Activities Management uses net cash provided by operating activities as a key financial metric. For the three months ended April 30, 2014, net cash provided by operating activities was $21.7 million. The positive cash flows resulted from increased cash collections driven by growth in sales. These cash inflows were generally offset by increases in our operating expenses, which were primarily driven by increased headcount. We recently changed our paid time off (PTO) policy for US exempt employees such that we no longer track or accrue PTO. We paid out the accrued but unused PTO balances as of May 31, 2014, which will result in a one-time use in net cash provided by operating activities of approximately $18 million in the three months ended July 31, 2014. For the three months ended April 30, 2013, net cash provided by operating activities was $17.3 million. The positive cash flows resulted from increased cash collections driven by growth in sales and a $16.5 million benefit from payroll taxes withheld on employee stock transactions in April 2013. These cash inflows were generally offset by increases in our operating expenses, which were primarily driven by increased headcount. The $16.5 million withheld from employee stock transactions was disbursed in May 2013, and we therefore had a corresponding cash use in cash flows from operations for the three months ended July 31, 2013. Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities for the three months ended April 30, 2014 was $352.4 million, which was primarily the result of the timing of purchases and maturities of marketable securities and of capital expenditures, and a net cash outflow of $26.3 million related to the acquisition of Identified in February 2014. We expect capital expenditures will be approximately $100 million for the year ended January 31, 2015. We expect that these capital outlays will largely be used to expand the infrastructure of our data centers and to build out additional office space to support our growth. We acquired a leasehold interest in land in Pleasanton adjacent to our existing office space during the three months ended January 31, 2014. We are actively evaluating construction alternatives for this site and thus the potential development costs are not yet factored into our expected capital expenditures described above. Cash flows provided by investing activities for the three months ended April 30, 2013 was $117.1 million, which was primarily the result of the timing of purchases and maturities of marketable securities and of capital expenditures. 24 Table of Contents Financing Activities For the three months ended April 30, 2014, net cash used in financing activities was $4.7 million, which was primarily due to $5.0 million of Class A common share repurchases for tax withholdings on vesting of restricted stock and $2.7 million in principal payments on our capital lease obligations, which were partially offset by $3.0 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options. For the three months ended April 30, 2013, net cash provided by financing activities was $0.8 million, which was primarily due to $4.6 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options, partially offset by $3.8 million in principal payments on our capital lease obligations. Free Cash Flows In addition to net cash provided by operating activities, management uses free cash flows as a key financial metric. Free cash flows decreased by $3.5 million to $11.8 million for the three months ended April 30, 2014, as compared to $15.3 million for the prior year period. The reduction in free cash flows was primarily due to a significant increase in cash paid to acquire property and equipment, partially offset by increased sales and the related cash collections. Free cash flows decreased from $(18.4) million for the trailing twelve months ended April 30, 2013 to $(33.1) million for the trailing twelve months ended April 30, 2014. The reduction in free cash flows was primarily due to a significant increase in cash paid to acquire property and equipment and other intangible assets, partially offset by a significant increase in sales and the related cash collections. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation S-K Item 10(e), Use of non-GAAP financial measures in Commission filings, defines and prescribes the conditions for use of non-GAAP financial information. Our measures of core operating expenses, core operating margin and free cash flows each meet the definition of a non-GAAP financial measure. Core Operating Expenses We define core operating expenses as our total operating expenses excluding the following components, which we believe are not reflective of our ongoing operational expenses. In each case, for the reasons set forth below, management believes that excluding the component provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results and future prospects in the same manner as management, in comparing financial results across accounting periods and to those of peer companies and to better understand the long-term performance of our core business. Share-Based Compensation Expenses. Although share-based compensation is an important aspect of the compensation of our employees and executives, management believes it is useful to exclude share-based compensation in order to better understand the long-term performance of our core business and to facilitate comparison of our results to those of peer companies. For restricted share awards, the amount of share-based compensation expenses is not reflective of the value ultimately received by the grant recipients. Moreover, determining the fair value of certain of the share-based instruments we utilize involves a high degree of judgment and estimation and the expense recorded may bear little resemblance to the actual value realized upon the vesting or future exercise of the related share-based awards. Unlike cash compensation, the value of stock options and the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, which is an element of our ongoing share-based compensation expenses, is determined using a complex formula that incorporates factors, such as market volatility and forfeiture rates, that are beyond our control. Other Operating Expenses. Other operating expenses included employer payroll taxes on employee stock transactions for the three months ended April 30, 2014 and 2013 and amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets for the three months ended April, 2014. The amount of employer payroll taxes on share-based compensation is dependent on our stock price and other factors that are beyond our control and do not correlate to the operation of the business. For business combinations, we generally allocate a portion of the purchase price to intangible assets. The amount of the allocation is based on estimates and assumptions made by management and is subject to amortization. The amount of purchase price allocated to intangible assets and the term of its related amortization can vary significantly and are unique to each acquisition and thus we do not believe it is reflective of the ongoing operations. Free cash flows We define free cash flows as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities minus purchases of property and equipment, property and equipment acquired under capital leases and purchases of other (non-acquisition-related) intangible assets. Management uses free cash flows as a measure of financial progress in our business, as it balances operating results, cash management and capital efficiency. When calculating free cash flows, we subtract the gross value of all equipment acquired in the period, even when acquired under capital leases, so we can evaluate our progress on free cash flows independent of our capital financing decisions. 25 Table of Contents Management believes information regarding free cash flows provides investors and others with an important perspective on the cash available to make strategic acquisitions and investments, to fund ongoing operations and to fund other capital expenditures. Limitations on the use of non-GAAP financial measures A limitation of our non-GAAP financial measures of core operating expenses, core operating margin and free cash flows is that they do not have uniform definitions. Our definitions will likely differ from the definitions used by other companies, including peer companies, and therefore comparability may be limited. Thus, our non-GAAP measures of core operating expenses, core operating margin and free cash flows should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or in isolation from, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Additionally, in the case of share-based compensation, if we did not pay out a portion of compensation in the form of share-based compensation and related employer payroll taxes, the cash salary expense included in costs of revenues and operating expenses would be higher, which would affect our cash position. Further, the non-GAAP measure of core operating expenses has certain limitations because it does not reflect all items of expense that affect our operations and are reflected in the GAAP measure of total operating expenses. We compensate for these limitations by reconciling core operating expenses to the most comparable GAAP financial measure and reviewing these measures in conjunction with GAAP financial information. Management encourages investors and others to review our financial information in its entirety, not to rely on any single financial measure and to view our non-GAAP financial measures in conjunction with the most comparable GAAP financial measures. See Results of OperationsCore Operating Expenses for a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measure of core operating expenses to the most comparable GAAP measure, total operating expenses, for the three months ended April 30, 2014 and 2013. See Liquidity and Capital Resources for a reconciliation of free cash flows to the most comparable GAAP measure, net cash provided by operating activities, for the three months ended April 30, 2014 and 2013. Commitments Our principal commitments primarily consist of obligations under leases for office space and co-location facilities for data center capacity and our development and test data center, as well as computer equipment. As of April 30, 2014, the future non-cancelable minimum payments under operating leases were $110.5 million. During the remainder of the year ended January 31, 2015, we anticipate leasing additional office space near our headquarters and in various other locations around the world to support our growth. In addition, our existing lease agreements often provide us with an option to renew. We expect our future operating lease obligations will increase as we expand our operations. We are not required to make principal payments under the Notes prior to maturity. If the Notes are not converted to Class A common stock prior to their maturity dates, we are required to repay $350.0 million in principal on July 15, 2018 and $250.0 million in principal on July 15, 2020. We are also required to make interest payments on a semi-annual basis at the interest rates noted above. We do not consider outstanding purchase orders to be purchase commitments as they represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Through April 30, 2014, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated organizations or financial partnerships, such as structured finance or special purpose entities that would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. During the three months ended April 30, 2014, there were no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as described in financial statements contained in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2014 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on March 31, 2014. Subsequent to the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, we added a policy related to business combinations. 26 Table of Contents