ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this report. The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed below and elsewhere in this report, as well as in the section entitled Risk Factors. Overview Workday provides financial management, human capital management, and analytics applications designed for the world's largest companies, educational institutions, and government agencies. We offer innovative and adaptable technology focused on the consumer Internet experience and cloud delivery model. Our applications are designed for global enterprises to manage complex and dynamic operating environments. We provide our customers highly adaptable, accessible and reliable applications to manage critical business functions that enable them to optimize their financial and human capital resources. We were founded in 2005 to deliver cloud applications to global enterprises. Our applications are designed around the way people work today in an environment that is global, collaborative, fast-paced and mobile. Our cycle of frequent updates has facilitated rapid innovation and the introduction of new applications throughout our history. We began offering our Human Capital Management (HCM) application in 2006, and our Financial Management application in 2007. Since then we have continued to invest in innovation and have consistently introduced new services to our customers. We offer Workday applications to our customers on an enterprise-wide subscription basis, typically with three-year terms and with subscription fees largely based on the size of the customers workforce. We generally recognize revenues from subscription fees ratably over the term of the contract. We currently derive a substantial majority of our subscription services revenues from subscriptions to our HCM application. We market our applications through our direct sales force. We have achieved significant growth in a relatively short period of time. Our diverse customer base includes large, global companies and our direct sales force generally targets organizations with more than 1,000 workers. A substantial amount of our growth comes from new customers. Our current financial focus is on growing our revenues and expanding our customer base. While we are incurring losses today, we strive to invest in a disciplined manner across all of our functional areas to sustain continued near-term revenue growth and support our long-term initiatives. Our operating expenses have increased significantly in absolute dollars in recent periods, primarily due to the significant growth of our employee population. We had approximately 5,600 and approximately 4,100 employees as of April 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. We intend to continue investing for long-term growth. We have invested, and expect to continue to invest, heavily in our application development efforts to deliver additional compelling applications and to address customers evolving needs. In addition, we plan to continue to expand our ability to sell our applications globally, particularly in Europe and Asia, by investing in product development and customer support to address the business needs of local markets, increasing our sales and marketing organizations, acquiring, building and/or leasing additional office space, and expanding our ecosystem of services partners to support local deployments. We expect to make further significant investments in our data center infrastructure as we plan for future growth. We are also investing in personnel to service our growing customer base. These investments will increase our costs on an absolute basis in the near-term. Many of these investments will occur in advance of experiencing any direct benefit from them and will make it difficult to determine if we are allocating our resources efficiently. We expect our product development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses as a percentage of total revenues to decrease over time as we grow our revenues, and we anticipate that we will gain economies of scale by increasing our customer base without direct incremental development costs and by utilizing more of the capacity of our data centers. Since inception, we have invested heavily in our professional services organization to help ensure that customers successfully deploy and adopt our applications. Additionally, we continue to expand our professional services partner ecosystem to further support our customers. We believe our investment in professional services, as well as partners building consulting practices around Workday, will drive additional customer subscriptions and continued growth in revenues. Due to our expanding partner ecosystem, we will not be investing in our professional services organization at the same rates as we have in the past, and we expect professional services revenues and the cost of professional services as a percentage of total revenues will continue to decline over time. Components of Results of Operations Revenues We primarily derive our revenues from subscription services fees and professional services fees. Subscription services revenues primarily consist of fees that give our customers access to our cloud applications, which include related customer support. Professional services fees include deployment services, optimization services, and training. 21 Table of Contents Subscription services revenues accounted for 81% of our total revenues during the three months ended April 30, 2016 and represented 97% of our total unearned revenue as of April 30, 2016 . Subscription services revenues are driven primarily by the number of customers, the number of workers at each customer, the number of applications subscribed to by each customer, and the price of our applications. The mix of the applications to which a customer subscribes can affect our financial performance due to price differentials in our applications. Compared to our other offerings, our HCM application has been available for a longer period of time, is more established in the marketplace and has benefited from continued enhancements of the functionality over a longer period of time, all of which help us to improve our pricing for that application. However, new products or services offerings by competitors in the future could impact the mix and pricing of our offerings. Subscription services fees are generally recognized ratably as revenues over the contract term beginning on the date the application is made available to the customer, which is generally within one week of contract signing. Our subscription contracts typically have a term of three years and are non-cancelable. We generally invoice our customers in advance, in annual installments. Amounts that have been invoiced are initially recorded as unearned revenue. Amounts that have not yet been invoiced represent backlog and are not reflected in our condensed consolidated financial statements. The majority of our consulting engagements are billed on a time and materials basis, and revenues are typically recognized as the services are performed. We offer a number of training options intended to support our customers in configuring, using and administering our services. In some cases, we supplement our consulting teams by subcontracting resources from our service partners and deploying them on customer engagements. As Workdays professional services organization and the Workday-related consulting practices of our partner firms continue to develop, we expect the partners to increasingly contract directly with our subscription customers. As a result of this trend, and the increase of our subscription services revenues, we expect professional services revenues as a percentage of total revenues to decline over time. Costs and Expenses Costs of subscription services revenues. Costs of subscription services revenues consist primarily of employee-related expenses related to hosting our applications and providing customer support, the costs of data center capacity, and depreciation of computer equipment and software. Costs of professional services revenues . Costs of professional services revenues consist primarily of employee-related expenses associated with these services, the cost of subcontractors and travel. Product development . Product development expenses consist primarily of employee-related costs. We continue to focus our product development efforts on adding new features and applications, increasing the functionality and enhancing the ease of use of our cloud applications. Sales and marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of employee-related costs, sales commissions, marketing programs and travel. Marketing programs consist of advertising, events, corporate communications, brand building and product marketing activities. Commissions earned by our sales force that can be associated specifically with a non-cancelable subscription contract are generally deferred and amortized over the same period that revenues are recognized for the related non-cancelable contract. General and administrative . General and administrative expenses consist of employee-related costs for finance and accounting, legal, human resources and management information systems personnel, legal costs, professional fees and other corporate expenses. Results of Operations Revenues Our total revenues for the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 were as follows: Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 2015 % Change (in thousands, except percentages) Revenues: Subscription services $ 280,003 $ 200,993 39% Professional services 65,427 49,964 31% Total revenues $ 345,430 $ 250,957 38% 22 Table of Contents Total revenues were $345 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016 , compared to $251 million during the prior year period, an increase of $94 million , or 38% . Subscription services revenues were $280 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016 , compared to $201 million for the prior year period, an increase of $79 million , or 39% . The increase in subscription services revenues was due primarily to an increased number of customer contracts as compared to the prior year period. Professional services revenues were $65 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016 , compared to $50 million for the prior year period, an increase of $15 million , or 31% . The increase in professional services revenues was due primarily to the addition of new customers and a greater number of customers requesting deployment and integration services. Operating Expenses GAAP operating expenses were $419 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016, compared to $304 million for the prior year period, an increase of $115 million, or 38%. The increases were primarily due to an increase of $83 million in employee-related costs driven by higher headcount and $7 million in depreciation and amortization expense. We use the non-GAAP financial measure of non-GAAP operating expenses to understand and compare operating results across accounting periods, for internal budgeting and forecasting purposes, for short- and long-term operating plans, and to evaluate our financial performance and the ability of operations to generate cash. We believe that non-GAAP operating expenses reflect our ongoing business in a manner that allows for meaningful period-to-period comparisons and analysis of trends in our business, as they exclude expenses that are not reflective of ongoing operating results. We also believe that non-GAAP operating expenses provide useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results and future prospects in the same manner as management and in comparing financial results across accounting periods and to those of peer companies. Non-GAAP operating expenses are calculated by excluding share-based compensation expenses, and certain other expenses, which consist of employer payroll tax-related items on employee stock transactions and amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets. Non-GAAP operating expenses were $334 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016, compared to $253 million for the prior year period, an increase of $81 million , or 32% . The increases were primarily due to an increase of $51 million in employee-related costs driven by higher headcount, and $6 million in depreciation and amortization expense. Reconciliations of our GAAP to non-GAAP operating expenses were as follows: Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 GAAP Operating Expenses Share-Based Compensation Expenses (1) Other Operating Expenses (2) Non-GAAP Operating Expenses (3) (in thousands) Costs of subscription services $ 49,200 $ (4,397 ) $ (319 ) $ 44,484 Costs of professional services 59,427 (5,293 ) (490 ) 53,644 Product development 141,778 (32,968 ) (3,794 ) 105,016 Sales and marketing 127,491 (19,002 ) (1,090 ) 107,399 General and administrative 41,183 (16,575 ) (812 ) 23,796 Total costs and expenses $ 419,079 $ (78,235 ) $ (6,505 ) $ 334,339 Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 GAAP Operating Expenses Share-Based Compensation Expenses (1) Other Operating Expenses (2) Non-GAAP Operating Expenses (3) (in thousands) Costs of subscription services $ 31,782 $ (2,048 ) $ (186 ) $ 29,548 Costs of professional services 46,132 (3,454 ) (354 ) 42,324 Product development 99,335 (20,811 ) (2,313 ) 76,211 Sales and marketing 94,895 (8,365 ) (631 ) 85,899 General and administrative 32,217 (12,596 ) (587 ) 19,034 Total costs and expenses $ 304,361 $ (47,274 ) $ (4,071 ) $ 253,016 (1) Share-based compensation expenses were $78 million and $47 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The increase in share-based compensation expenses was primarily due to grants of RSUs to existing and new employees during the twelve months ended April 30, 2016. During the three months periods ended April 30, 2016 and 2015, the realized excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation were immaterial. 23 Table of Contents (2) Other operating expenses include employer payroll tax-related items on employee stock transactions of $5 million and $4 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. In addition, other operating expenses included amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets of $1 million and $0.3 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 respectively. Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets is recorded as part of product development expenses. (3) See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for further information. Costs of Subscription Services GAAP operating expenses in costs of subscription services were $49 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016, compared to $32 million for the prior year period, an increase of $17 million or 53%. The increase was primarily due to increases of $7 million in employee-related costs driven by higher headcount, $4 million in service contracts expense to expand data center capacity, and $3 million in depreciation expense related to our data centers. Non-GAAP operating expenses in costs of subscription services were $44 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016 , compared to $30 million for the prior year period, an increase of $14 million, or 47%. The increase was primarily due to increases of $5 million in employee-related costs driven by higher headcount, $4 million in service contracts expense to expand data center capacity, and $3 million in depreciation expense related to our data centers. See the table above for a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP operating expenses. We expect that GAAP and non-GAAP operating expenses in costs of subscription services will continue to increase in absolute dollars as we improve and expand our data center capacity and operations. Costs of Professional Services GAAP operating expenses in costs of professional services were $59 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016, compared to $46 million for the prior year period, an increase of $13 million, or 28%. The increase was primarily due to additional costs of $12 million to staff our deployment and integration engagements. Non-GAAP operating expenses in costs of professional services were $54 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016 , compared to $42 million for the prior year period, an increase of $12 million, or 29%. This increase was primarily due to additional costs of $10 million to staff our deployment and integration engagements. See the table above for a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP operating expenses. Due to the increase in demand for our professional services, we have increased both our internal professional service staff as well as third-party supplemental staff. Going forward, we expect GAAP and non-GAAP costs of professional services as a percentage of total revenues to continue to decline as we increasingly rely on third parties to deploy our applications and as the number of our customers continues to grow. For fiscal 2017, we anticipate GAAP and non-GAAP professional services margins to be lower than fiscal 2016 as we invest in building our partnership ecosystem in the education and government sectors, as well as internationally. Product Development GAAP operating expenses in product development were $142 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016, compared to $99 million for the prior year period, an increase of $43 million, or 43%. The increase was primarily due to increases of $33 million in employee-related costs driven by higher headcount and $6 million in facility and IT-related expenses. Non-GAAP operating expenses in product development were $105 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016 , compared to $76 million for the prior year period, an increase of $29 million , or 38% . The increase was primarily due to increases of $20 million in employee-related costs driven by higher headcount and $6 million in facility and IT-related expenses. See the table above for a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP operating expenses. We expect that GAAP and non-GAAP product development expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars as we improve and extend our applications and develop new technologies. Sales and Marketing GAAP operating expenses in sales and marketing were $127 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016 compared to $95 million for the prior year period, an increase of $32 million, or 34%. The increase was primarily due to increases of $25 million in employee-related costs driven by higher headcount and higher commissionable sales volume, $3 million in facility and IT-related expenses and $2 million in advertising, marketing and event costs. 24 Table of Contents Non-GAAP operating expenses in sales and marketing were $107 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016 , compared to $86 million for the prior year period, an increase of $21 million, or 24%. The increase was primarily due to increases of $14 million in employee-related costs driven by higher headcount and higher commissionable sales volume, $3 million in facility and IT-related expenses and $2 million in advertising, marketing and event costs. See the table above for a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP operating expenses. We expect that GAAP and non-GAAP sales and marketing expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest in the expansion of our domestic and international selling and marketing activities to build brand awareness and attract new customers. General and Administrative GAAP operating expenses in general and administrative were $41 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016, compared to $32 million for the prior year period, an increase of $9 million, or 28%. The increase was primarily due to $8 million in additional employee-related costs driven by higher headcount. Non-GAAP operating expenses in general and administrative were $24 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016 , compared to $19 million for the prior year period, an increase of $5 million , or 26%. The increase was primarily due to $3 million in employee-related costs driven by higher headcount and $2 million in higher professional fees. See the table above for a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP operating expenses. We expect GAAP and non-GAAP general and administrative expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars as we further invest in our infrastructure and support our global expansion. Operating Margins GAAP operating margins remained constant at 21.3% for each of the three month periods ended April 30, 2016 and 2015, primarily due to higher revenues that were offset by higher share-based compensation and other operating expenses. We use non-GAAP operating margins to understand and compare operating results across accounting periods, for internal budgeting and forecasting purposes, for short- and long-term operating plans, and to evaluate our financial performance and the ability of operations to generate cash. We believe that non-GAAP operating margins reflect our ongoing business in a manner that allows for meaningful period-to-period comparisons and analysis of trends in our business, as they exclude expenses that are not reflective of ongoing operating results. We also believe that non-GAAP operating margins provide useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results and future prospects in the same manner as management and in comparing financial results across accounting periods and to those of peer companies. Non-GAAP operating margins are calculated using GAAP revenues and non-GAAP operating expenses. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for further information. Non-GAAP operating margins improved from (0.8)% for the three months ended April 30, 2015 to 3.2% for the three months ended April 30, 2016 . The improvements in our non-GAAP operating margins in the three months ended April 30, 2016 were primarily due to higher subscription services revenues, higher professional services revenues and improvements in operating leverage. Reconciliations of our GAAP to non-GAAP operating margins were as follows: Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 GAAP Operating Expenses Share-Based Compensation Expenses Other Operating Expenses Non-GAAP Operating Expenses (1) Operating margin (21.3 )% 22.6 % 1.9 % 3.2 % Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 GAAP Operating Expenses Share-Based Compensation Expenses Other Operating Expenses Non-GAAP Operating Expenses (1) Operating margin (21.3 )% 18.9 % 1.6 % (0.8 )% (1) See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for further information. 25 Table of Contents Other Expense, Net Other expense, net, decreased $1 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016 as compared to the prior year period. The contractual cash interest expense related to the 2018 and 2020 Notes was less than $2 million for each of the three month periods ended April 30, 2016 and 2015. The non-cash interest expense related to amortization of the debt discount and amortization of debt issuance costs with respect to the 2018 and 2020 Notes was $7 million and $6 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of April 30, 2016 , our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaling $2.1 billion , which were held for working capital purposes. Our cash equivalents and marketable securities are comprised primarily of U.S. agency obligations, U.S. treasury securities, U.S. corporate securities, commercial paper, and money market funds. We have financed our operations primarily through sales of equity securities, customer payments, and issuance of debt. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our customer growth rate, subscription renewal activity, the timing of construction and acquisition of facilities in Pleasanton, California, the timing and extent of development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the introduction of new and enhanced services offerings, the continuing market acceptance of our services, and acquisition activities. We may enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services and technologies or intellectual property rights in the future. We also may choose to seek additional equity or debt financing. Our cash flows for the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 were as follows: Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 2015 (in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 161,466 $ 92,199 Investing activities (61,344 ) (122,488 ) Financing activities 3,757 2,533 Effect of exchange rate changes 638 48 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 104,517 $ (27,708 ) Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities was $161 million and $92 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. The improvement in cash flow provided by operating activities was primarily due to increased cash collections driven by growth in our customer sales contracts, partially offset by increases in our headcount and other operational expenses. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities for the three months ended April 30, 2016 was $61 million , which was primarily the result of the timing of purchases and maturities of marketable securities, the purchase of an office building and land in Pleasanton, California for $15 million, capital expenditures for the development center of $4 million, and capital expenditures for data center and office space projects of $34 million . We began construction of the development center, consisting of approximately 410,000 square feet of office space in Pleasanton, California during the first quarter of fiscal 2017. We expect capital expenditures related to owned real estate investments will be approximately $125 million for fiscal 2017. We expect capital expenditures, excluding owned real estate investments, will be approximately $185 million for fiscal 2017. We expect that these capital outlays will largely be used to expand the infrastructure of our data centers and to build out additional office space to support our growth. Cash used in investing activities for the three months ended April 30, 2015 was $122 million , which was primarily the result of the timing of purchases and maturities of marketable securities and capital expenditures of $28 million . Financing Activities For the three months ended April 30, 2016 , cash provided by financing activities was $4 million , which was primarily due to proceeds from the issuance of common stock from employee equity plans. 26 Table of Contents For the three months ended April 30, 2015 , cash provided by financing activities was $3 million , which was primarily due to $4 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock from employee equity plans, partially offset by $1 million in principal payments on our capital lease obligations. Free Cash Flows In evaluating our performance internally, we focus on long-term, sustainable growth in free cash flows. We define free cash flows, a non-GAAP financial measure, as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities minus capital expenditures (excluding owned real estate investments). See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for further information. Free cash flows improved by $63 million to $127 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016 , compared to $64 million for the prior year period. The improvement was primarily due to increased sales and the related cash collections, partially offset by increased capital expenditures (excluding owned real estate investments) and higher operating expenses, driven primarily by increased headcount. Reconciliations of Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities to free cash flows were as follows: Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 2015 (in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 161,466 $ 92,199 Capital expenditures, excluding owned real estate investments (34,478 ) (28,320 ) Free cash flows $ 126,988 $ 63,879 Trailing Twelve Months Ended April 30, 2016 2015 (in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 327,904 $ 172,505 Capital expenditures, excluding owned real estate investments (139,825 ) (122,093 ) Free cash flows $ 188,079 $ 50,412 Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation S-K Item 10(e), Use of non-GAAP financial measures in Commission filings, defines and prescribes the conditions for use of non-GAAP financial information. Our measures of non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating margin and free cash flows each meet the definition of a non-GAAP financial measure. Non-GAAP Operating Expenses and non-GAAP Operating Margins We define non-GAAP operating expenses as our total operating expenses excluding the following components, which we believe are not reflective of our ongoing operational expenses. Similarly, the same components are also excluded from the calculation of non-GAAP operating margins. In each case, for the reasons set forth below, management believes that excluding the component provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results and future prospects in the same manner as management, in comparing financial results across accounting periods and to those of peer companies and to better understand the long-term performance of our core business. Share-Based Compensation Expenses. Although share-based compensation is an important aspect of the compensation of our employees and executives, management believes it is useful to exclude share-based compensation expenses in order to better understand the long-term performance of our core business and to facilitate comparison of our results to those of peer companies. For restricted stock unit awards, the amount of share-based compensation expenses is not reflective of the value ultimately received by the grant recipients. Moreover, determining the fair value of certain of the share-based instruments we utilize involves a high degree of judgment and estimation and the expense recorded may bear little resemblance to the actual value realized upon the vesting or future exercise of the related share-based awards. Unlike cash compensation, the value of stock options and shares offered under the ESPP, which are elements of our ongoing share-based compensation expenses, is determined using a complex formula that incorporates factors, such as market volatility and forfeiture rates, that are beyond our control. 27 Table of Contents Other Operating Expenses. Other operating expenses include employer payroll tax-related items on employee stock transactions and amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets. The amount of employer payroll tax-related items on employee stock transactions is dependent on our stock price and other factors that are beyond our control and do not correlate to the operation of the business. For business combinations, we generally allocate a portion of the purchase price to intangible assets. The amount of the allocation is based on estimates and assumptions made by management and is subject to amortization. The amount of purchase price allocated to intangible assets and the term of its related amortization can vary significantly and are unique to each acquisition and thus we do not believe it is reflective of our ongoing operations. Free Cash Flows We define free cash flows as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities minus capital expenditures (excluding owned real estate investments). Capital expenditures deducted from cash flows from operations do not include purchases of land and buildings, and construction costs of our new development center and of other owned buildings. We exclude these owned real estate investments as they are infrequent, non-recurring in nature and distinctly separate from our ongoing business operations. We use free cash flows as a measure of financial progress in our business, as it balances operating results, cash management and capital efficiency. We believe information regarding free cash flows provides investors and others with an important perspective on the cash available to make strategic acquisitions and investments, to fund ongoing operations and to fund other capital expenditures. Limitations on the Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures A limitation of our non-GAAP financial measures of non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating margin and free cash flows is that they do not have uniform definitions. Our definitions will likely differ from the definitions used by other companies, including peer companies, and therefore comparability may be limited. Thus, our non-GAAP financial measures of non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating margin and free cash flows should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or in isolation from, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Additionally, in the case of share-based compensation, if we did not pay out a portion of compensation in the form of share-based compensation and related employer payroll tax-related items, the cash salary expense included in costs of revenues and operating expenses would be higher, which would affect our cash position. Further, the non-GAAP financial measure of non-GAAP operating expenses has certain limitations because it does not reflect all items of expense that affect our operations and are reflected in the GAAP financial measure of total operating expenses. We compensate for these limitations by reconciling GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures and reviewing these measures in conjunction with GAAP financial information. We encourage investors and others to review our financial information in its entirety, not to rely on any single financial measure and to view our non-GAAP financial measures in conjunction with the most comparable GAAP financial measures. See Results of OperationsOperating Expenses and Results of OperationsOperating Margins for reconciliations from the most directly comparable GAAP measures, GAAP operating expenses and GAAP operating margins, to the non-GAAP financial measures, non-GAAP operating expenses and non-GAAP operating margins, for the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 . See Liquidity and Capital ResourcesFree Cash Flows for a reconciliation from the most comparable GAAP measure, Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, to the non-GAAP financial measure, free cash flow, for the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 . Commitments Our contractual commitments primarily consist of obligations under leases for office space and co-location facilities for data center capacity. As of April 30, 2016 , the future non-cancelable minimum payments under operating leases were $250 million. During the remainder of the year ended January 31, 2017 , we anticipate leasing additional office space near our headquarters and in various other locations around the world to support our growth. In addition, our existing lease agreements often provide us with an option to renew. We expect our future operating lease obligations will increase as we expand our operations. In January 2014, we entered into a 95-year lease for a 6.9-acre parcel of land in Pleasanton, California, under which we paid $2 million for base rent from commencement through December 31, 2020. Annual rent payments of $0.2 million plus increases based on increases in the consumer price index begin on January 1, 2021 and continue through the end of the lease. We started construction of our new development center, consisting of approximately 410,000 square feet of office space, on this property in the first quarter of fiscal 2017. As noted in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section above, we expect capital expenditures related to owned real estate investments, which includes the development center, will be approximately $125 million for fiscal 2017. 28 Table of Contents We are not required to make principal payments under the Notes prior to maturity. If the Notes are not converted to Class A common stock prior to their maturity dates, we are required to repay $350 million in principal on July 15, 2018 and $250 million in principal on July 15, 2020. We are also required to make interest payments on a semi-annual basis at the interest rates described in Note 8 of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements. We do not consider outstanding purchase orders to be purchase commitments as they represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Through April 30, 2016 , we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated organizations or financial partnerships, such as structured finance or special purpose entities that would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. During the three months ended April 30, 2016 , there were no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as described in financial statements contained in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2016 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on March 22, 2016. 29 Table of Contents