Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with information contained in the accompanying unaudited consolidated interim financial statements of Westlake Corporation and the notes thereto and the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto of Westlake Corporation included in Westlake Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024 (the "2024 Form 10-K"). Unless otherwise indicated, references in this report to "we," "our," "us" or like terms refer to Westlake Corporation ("Westlake" or the "Company"). The following discussion contains forward-looking statements. Please read "Forward-Looking Statements" for a discussion of limitations inherent in such statements. Overview We are a vertically integrated global manufacturer and marketer of performance and essential materials and housing and infrastructure products. We operate in two principal operating segments, Performance and Essential Materials and Housing and Infrastructure Products. The Performance and Essential Materials segment includes Westlake North American Vinyls, Westlake North American Chlor-alkali & Derivatives, Westlake European & Asian Chlorovinyls, Westlake Olefins, Westlake Polyethylene and Westlake Epoxy. The Housing and Infrastructure Products segment includes Westlake Royal Building Products, Westlake Pipe & Fittings, Westlake Global Compounds and Westlake Dimex. We are highly integrated along our materials chain with significant downstream integration from ethylene and chlor-alkali (chlorine and caustic soda) into vinyls, polyethylene, epoxy and styrene monomer. We also have substantial downstream integration from polyvinyl chloride ("PVC") into our building products, PVC pipes and fittings and PVC compounds in our Housing and Infrastructure Products segment. Since 2022, our European and North American businesses have been impacted by reduced demand and lower prices due to macroeconomic conditions such as the war in Ukraine, volatility in energy prices, slower GDP growth, inflation and higher interest rates. Furthermore, the lower-than-expected demand for performance and essential materials in Asia amid capacity build-up over the years have also impacted most of our product prices and demand in Europe and North America. In the near term, we expect that the uncertainty in import tariff regimes and trading relationships across the world, volatility in energy prices, inflation and other macroeconomic conditions will continue to impact margins and demand for most of our products. Recent Developments Tariffs and Trading Relationships In April 2025, the U.S. government announced a baseline tariff of 10% on products imported from all countries and an additional individualized reciprocal tariff on the countries with which the United States has the largest trade deficits, including China. Increased tariffs by the United States have led and may continue to lead to the imposition of retaliatory tariffs by foreign jurisdictions. Additionally, the U.S. government has announced and rescinded multiple tariffs on several foreign jurisdictions, which has increased uncertainty regarding the ultimate effect of the tariffs on economic conditions. Current uncertainties about tariffs and their effects on trading relationships may affect the costs for and availability of raw materials or contribute to inflation in the markets in which we operate. Although we are continuing to monitor the economic effects of such announcements, as well as opportunities to mitigate their related impacts, costs and other effects associated with the tariffs remain uncertain. Antidumping and Countervailing Duty Investigations In April 2024, the U.S. Epoxy Resin Producers Ad Hoc Coalition (the "Coalition"), of which we are a member, filed petitions with the U.S. Department of Commerce and the U.S. International Trade Commission requesting the initiation of antidumping investigations regarding imports of certain epoxy resins from China, India, South Korea, Taiwan, and Thailand and countervailing duty investigations regarding imports of the same products from China, India, South Korea, and Taiwan. The U.S. Department of Commerce made its final determinations in March 2025. The U.S. International Trade Commission concluded its investigation in April 2025. In May 2025, the U.S. Department of Commerce is expected to impose antidumping and countervailing duty orders on imports of epoxy resins from South Korea and Taiwan and an antidumping order on imports of epoxy resins from Thailand. In June 2024, the Coalition confidentially lodged an antidumping complaint with the European Commission requesting the initiation of an antidumping investigation concerning imports of epoxy resins into the European Union market originating in China, South Korea, Taiwan and Thailand. In July 2024, the European Commission published in the EU Official Journal a notice initiating an antidumping investigation concerning imports of epoxy resins originating in China, South Korea, Taiwan, and Thailand. In October 2024, the European Commission published a regulation requiring registration of imports subject to the investigation. The European Commission imposed provisional duties in late February 2025 and is expected to conclude the investigation by late August 2025. 25 Table of Contents Our Operations and Outlook Performance and Essential Materials Our performance and essential materials such as ethylene, PVC, polyethylene, epoxy and caustic soda are some of the most widely used materials in the world and are upgraded into a wide variety of higher value-added products used in many end-markets. Westlake is the second-largest chlor-alkali producer and the second-largest PVC producer in the world, which makes Westlake a leading global chlorovinyls producer. Our performance and essential materials are used by customers in PVC pipe applications; housing and construction products; food and specialty packaging; industrial and consumer packaging; renewable wind energy; coatings; consumer durables; medical health applications; and mobility and transportation. Chlor-alkali and petrochemicals are typically manufactured globally in large volume by a number of different producers using widely available technologies. The chlor-alkali and petrochemical industries exhibit cyclical commodity characteristics, and margins are influenced by changes in the balance between global supply and demand and the resulting operating rates, the level of general economic activity and the price of raw materials. Due to the significant size of new plants, capacity additions are built in large increments and typically require several years of demand growth to be absorbed. The cycle is generally characterized by periods of tight supply, leading to high operating rates and margins, followed by a decline in operating rates and margins primarily as a result of excess new capacity additions. Westlake is a leading supplier of liquid and solid epoxy resins that are used in a wide variety of industrial coating applications. We are also one of the leading producers of epoxy specialty resins, modifiers and curing agents in Europe, the United States and Asia with a global reach to our end markets. Epoxy resins are the fundamental component of many types of materials and are often used in the automotive, construction, wind energy, aerospace and electronics industries due to their superior adhesion, strength and durability. Since 2022, we have continued to experience lower prices and weak demand for most of our performance and essential materials products globally. The ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine since Russia's invasion of Ukraine in 2022, the conflict in the Middle East, slow economic growth in China and Europe, increases in bisphenol-A, epichlorohydrin and base epoxy resin exports out of Asia into European and North American markets, disruption of trade flows due to enactment of duties and tariffs and related uncertainties, overcapacity in all the regions of PVC resin, polyethylene, chlor-alkali and epoxy , and volatility in natural gas, electricity and crude oil prices could have a continuing negative impact on the performance of Performance and Essential Materials businesses. Housing and Infrastructure Products Our Housing and Infrastructure Products segment is primarily comprised of residential building products, PVC pipes and fittings and PVC compound products. Our sales are affected by new home constructions and home repair and remodeling as well as the decisions of distributors and dealers on the levels of inventory they carry, their views on product demand, their financial condition and the manner in which they choose to manage inventory risk. A significant portion of our performance in this segment is driven by the activities in the residential construction and repair and remodeling markets in North America, which began to decline at the end of the second quarter of 2022 primarily due to the negative effect that rising mortgage rates in the United States had on buyer sentiment. Since the beginning of 2024, with the stabilization of interest rates and the possibility of further interest rate cuts by the U.S. Federal Reserve in the near term, we have seen improvement in the demand for housing products. Performance of our housing and infrastructure products businesses over time are generally reflective of the trends of building permits and housing starts in the New Residential Construction Survey by the U.S. Census Bureau and the Repair and Remodeling Index (RRI) provided by the National Association of Home Builders (the "NAHB") among others. Although we ultimately expect that the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act of 2021 and historically low residential housing construction that has resulted in an undersupply of existing housing may have a favorable long-term impact on our Housing and Infrastructure Products segment, the current inflationary environment impacting consumer spending and priorities and decade-high mortgage interest rates impacting consumer affordability are expected to have an unfavorable impact on the demand for housing construction in the near term and, as a result, our products produced by this segment. Factors that have caused volatility in our raw material prices, energy costs and other production costs in the past, and which may do so in the future, include significant fluctuation in prices of these raw materials in response to, among other things, variable worldwide supply and demand across different industries, speculation in commodities futures, general economic, business or environmental conditions, labor costs, competition, import duties impacting our cross-border trades within North America, enactment of tariffs and related uncertainties, worldwide currency fluctuations, freight, inflationary pressures, regulatory costs, and product and process evolutions that impact demand for the same materials. Increasing raw material prices directly impact our cost of sales and our ability to maintain margins depends on implementing price increases in response to increasing raw material costs. The market for our products may or may not accept price increases, and as such, our future financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially impacted. 26 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Financial Measures The body of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States is commonly referred to as "GAAP." For this purpose, a non-GAAP financial measure is generally defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") as one that purports to measure historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that (1) excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the registrant; or (2) includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented. In this report, we disclose non-GAAP financial measures, primarily earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA") and Free Cash Flow. We define EBITDA as net income before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. We define Free Cash Flow as net cash provided by operating activities less additions to property, plant and equipment. The non-GAAP financial measures described in this Form 10-Q are not substitutes for the GAAP measures of earnings and cash flows. EBITDA is included in this Form 10-Q because our management considers it an important supplemental measure of our performance and believes that it is frequently used by securities analysts, investors and other interested parties in the evaluation of companies in our industry, some of which present EBITDA when reporting their results. We regularly evaluate our performance as compared to other companies in our industry that have different financing and capital structures and/or tax rates by using EBITDA. In addition, we utilize EBITDA in evaluating acquisition targets. Management also believes that EBITDA is a useful tool for measuring our ability to meet our future debt service and satisfy capital expenditure and working capital requirements, and EBITDA is commonly used by us and our investors to measure our ability to service indebtedness. Free Cash Flow is included in this Form 10-Q because our management considers it an important supplemental measure of our performance and believes that it is frequently used by securities analysts, investors and other interested parties in the evaluation of companies in our industry, some of which present Free Cash Flow when reporting their results. We regularly evaluate our performance as compared to other companies in our industry that have different financing and capital structures and/or tax rates by using Free Cash Flow. Management also believes that Free Cash Flow is useful to investors and securities analysts to evaluate our liquidity, evaluate strategic investment, evaluate our stock buyback plan and measure our ability to meet our future debt service. EBITDA and Free Cash Flow are not substitutes for the GAAP measures of net income, income from operations and net cash provided by operating activities and are not necessarily measures of our ability to fund our cash needs. In addition, companies calculate EBITDA and Free Cash Flow differently and, therefore, EBITDA and Free Cash Flow as presented for us may not be comparable to EBITDA and Free Cash Flow reported by other companies. EBITDA has material limitations as a performance measure because it excludes interest expense, depreciation and amortization and income taxes. Free Cash Flow has material limitations as a performance measure because it only considers net cash provided by operating activities, and not net income or income from operations. For instance, it applies the entire cost of capital expenditure in the period in which the property or equipment is acquired, rather than spreading it over several periods as is the case with net income and income from operations. Reconciliations of EBITDA to net income, income from operations and net cash provided by operating activities, and Free Cash Flow to net cash provided by operating activities are included in the "Results of Operations" section below. 27 Table of Contents Results of Operations Segment Data The table below and descriptions that follow represent the consolidated results of operations of the Company for the three months endedMarch 31, 2025 and 2024. Net External Sales The table below presents net external sales on a disaggregated basis for our two principal operating segments. Performance Materials net external sales primarily consist of sales of PVC, polyethylene and epoxy. Essential Materials net external sales primarily consist of sales of caustic soda, chlorine, styrene, and related derivative materials. Housing Products net external sales primarily consist of sales of housing exterior and interior products, residential pipes and fittings and residential products utilizing PVC compounds. Infrastructure Products net external sales primarily consist of sales of infrastructure related pipes and fittings and infrastructure products utilizing PVC compounds. Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in millions of dollars, except per share data) Net external sales Performance and Essential Materials Performance Materials $ 1,056 $ 1,164 Essential Materials 794 767 Total Performance and Essential Materials 1,850 1,931 Housing and Infrastructure Products Housing Products 838 879 Infrastructure Products 158 165 Total Housing and Infrastructure Products 996 1,044 $ 2,846 $ 2,975 Income (loss) from operations Performance and Essential Materials $ (163) $ 22 Housing and Infrastructure Products 148 210 Corporate and other (17) (9) Total income (loss) from operations (32) 223 Interest expense (39) (40) Other income, net 37 50 Provision for income taxes 1 48 Net income (loss) (35) 185 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 5 11 Net income (loss) attributable to Westlake Corporation $ (40) $ 174 Diluted earnings (loss) per share $ (0.31) $ 1.34 EBITDA (1) $ 288 $ 546 Free Cash Flow (2) $ (325) $ (103) _____________ (1)See above for discussions on non-GAAP financial measures. See "Reconciliation of EBITDA to Net Income, Income from Operations and Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities" below. (2)See above for discussions on non-GAAP financial measures. See "Reconciliation of Free Cash Flow to Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities" below. 28 Table of Contents Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 Average Sales Price Volume Net sales percentage change from prior-year period due to average sales price and volume Performance and Essential Materials -2 % -2 % Housing and Infrastructure Products -3 % -2 % Company average -2 % -2 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 Domestic US prices percentage change from prior-year period for fuel cost and feedstock Fuel cost (Natural Gas) +59 % Feedstock (Ethane) +42 % Reconciliation of EBITDA to Net Income, Income from Operations and Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities The following table presents the reconciliation of EBITDA to net income, income from operations and net cash provided by operating activities, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, for each of the periods indicated. Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in millions of dollars) Net cash provided by (used for) operating activities $ (77) $ 169 Changes in operating assets and liabilities and other 41 (6) Deferred income taxes 1 22 Net income (loss) (35) 185 Less: Other income, net 37 50 Interest expense (39) (40) Provision for income taxes (1) (48) Income (loss) from operations (32) 223 Add: Depreciation and amortization 283 273 Other income, net 37 50 EBITDA $ 288 $ 546 Reconciliation of Free Cash Flow to Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities The following table presents the reconciliation of Free Cash Flow to net cash provided by operating activities, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, for each of the periods indicated. Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in millions of dollars) Net cash provided by (used for) operating activities $ (77) $ 169 Less: Additions to property, plant and equipment 248 272 Free cash flow $ (325) $ (103) 29 Table of Contents Summary For the quarter ended March 31, 2025, Westlake Corporation incurred a net loss of $40 million, or $(0.31) per diluted share, on net sales of $2,846 million. This represents a decrease in net income attributable to Westlake Corporation of $214 million, or $1.65 per diluted share, compared to the quarter ended March 31, 2024 net income attributable to Westlake Corporation of $174 million, or $1.34 per diluted share, on net sales of $2,975 million. Loss from operations was $32 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2025, as compared to income of $223 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2024, a decrease of $255 million in income from operations. The decrease in net income and income from operations was primarily due to lower sales prices for many of our products across both segments, including PVC resin, chlorine and pipe and fittings, lower sales volumes for polyethylene and PVC resin and higher energy and feedstock costs. The lower sales prices and demand resulted from weak global industrial and manufacturing activity. These decreases were slightly offset by higher caustic soda sales volumes. Net sales decreased by $129 million to $2,846 million in the quarter ended March 31, 2025 from $2,975 million in the quarter ended March 31, 2024, primarily due to lower sales prices for PVC resin, chlorine and pipe and fittings and lower sales volumes for polyethylene and PVC resin, which were partially offset by higher caustic soda volumes. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS First Quarter 2025 Compared with First Quarter 2024 Net Sales. Net sales decreased by $129 million, or 4%, to $2,846 million in the first quarter of 2025 from $2,975 million in the first quarter of 2024. Average sales prices for the first quarter of 2025 decreased by 2% as compared to the first quarter of 2024 as a result of lower sales prices for many of our products across both segments, including PVC resin, chlorine and pipe and fittings. Sales volumes decreased by 2% in the first quarter of 2025 as compared to the first quarter of 2024, due to lower sales volumes for polyethylene and PVC resin, which were partially offset by higher caustic soda volumes. Gross Profit. Gross profit margin was 8% in the first quarter of 2025 as compared to 16% in the first quarter of 2024. The decrease in gross profit margin was primarily due to lower sales prices for most of our products across both segments and higher energy and feedstock costs. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $18 million to $227 million in the first quarter of 2025 from $209 million in the first quarter of 2024. This increase was mainly due to higher allowance for credit losses, legal and other consulting costs, and technology related expenses. Amortization of Intangibles. Amortization expense in the first quarter of 2025 was consistent with the first quarter of 2024. Restructuring, Transaction and Integration-related Costs. Restructuring, transaction and integration-related costs were $7 million in the first quarter of 2025 compared to $4 million in the first quarter of 2024. The first quarter of 2025 and 2024 costs primarily represent mothballing and plant closure related costs. Interest Expense. Interest expense in the first quarter of 2025 was comparable to the first quarter of 2024. Other Income, Net. Other income, net decreased by $13 million to $37 million in the first quarter of 2025 from $50 million in the first quarter of 2024, primarily due to lower interest income resulting from the lower average cash and cash equivalent balances and lower interest rates in the first quarter of 2025 as compared to the first quarter of 2024. Income Taxes. The effective income tax rate was (2.9)% for the first quarter of 2025 as compared to 20.6% for the first quarter of 2024. The effective tax rate in the first quarter of 2025 was lower compared to the first quarter of 2024 primarily due to an increase in the valuation allowance recorded against Westlake Epoxy Netherlands's net operating loss for which no tax benefit can be recognized associated with the pre-tax loss in the first quarter of 2025. 30 Table of Contents Performance and Essential Materials Segment Net Sales. Net sales for the Performance and Essential Materials segment decreased by $81 million, or 4%, to $1,850 million in the first quarter of 2025 from $1,931 million in the first quarter of 2024. Average sales prices for the Performance and Essential Materials segment decreased by 2% in the first quarter of 2025 as compared to the first quarter of 2024. Lower Performance Materials sales prices were primarily due to lower PVC resin and epoxy resin sales prices. Lower Essential Materials sales prices were primarily due to lower chlorine sales prices. Sales volumes for the Performance and Essential Materials segment decreased by 2% in the first quarter of 2025 as compared to the first quarter of 2024, primarily due to lower PVC resin and polyethylene sales volumes. Income from Operations. Income from operations for the Performance and Essential Materials segment decreased by $185 million to a loss of $163 million in the first quarter of 2025 from income of $22 million in the first quarter of 2024. This decrease in income from operations in the first quarter of 2025, as compared to the first quarter of 2024, was primarily due to lower sales prices for most of our major products in this segment, particularly PVC resin, chlorine and epoxy resin, lower sales volumes for PVC resin and polyethylene, impact of Petro 1 turnaround activities and higher North American natural gas and feedstock costs, driven in part by winter storms early in the quarter. These decreases were partially offset by higher sales volumes for caustic soda. Housing and Infrastructure Products Segment Net Sales. Net sales for the Housing and Infrastructure Products segment decreased by $48 million, or 5%, to $996 million in the first quarter of 2025 from $1,044 million in the first quarter of 2024. Average sales prices for the Housing and Infrastructure Products segment decreased by 3% in the first quarter of 2025 as compared to the first quarter of 2024, primarily due to lower sales prices for pipe and fittings and siding and trim. Sales volumes for the Housing and Infrastructure Products segment decreased by 2% in the first quarter of 2025 as compared to the first quarter of 2024 primarily due to lower demand for pipe and fittings and siding and trim. Income from Operations. Income from operations for the Housing and Infrastructure Products segment decreased by $62 million to $148 million in the first quarter of 2025 from $210 million in the first quarter of 2024. This decrease in income from operations in the first quarter of 2025, as compared to the first quarter of 2024, was primarily due to lower sales price and margins, due to an unfavorable shift in sales mix, and lower sales volume, particularly in pipe and fittings, partly due to winter storms early in the quarter. CASH FLOW DISCUSSION FOR THE THREE MONTHS ENDED MARCH 31, 2025 AND 2024 Cash Flows Operating Activities Operating activities used cash of $77 million in the first three months of 2025 compared to cash provided by operating activities of $169 million in the first three months of 2024. The $246 million decrease in cash flows from operating activities was mainly due to lower prices and demand for most of our products, cash used in connection with the turnaround of Petro 1 ethylene facility in Lake Charles and a favorable change in working capital in the three months ended March 31, 2025. Changes in components of working capital, which we define for purposes of this cash flow discussion as accounts receivable, inventories, prepaid expenses and other current assets, less accounts payable and accrued and other liabilities, used cash of $135 million in the first three months of 2025, compared to $177 million of cash used in the first three months of 2024, a favorable change of $42 million. The favorable change in the first three months of 2025 was substantially driven by the higher accounts payable and accrued and other liabilities due to the impact of the Petro 1 turnaround activities and the timing of related payments in the first three months of 2025 and also due to higher feedstock and energy purchase costs during the three months ended March 31, 2025. Investing Activities Net cash used for investing activities in the first three months of 2025 was $434 million as compared to net cash used for investing activities of $272 million in the first three months of 2024. The increase in cash used for investing activities in the first three months of 2025 as compared to the first three months of 2024 was primarily related to the 2025 purchase of $183 million of investments comprising corporate bonds and U.S. government debt securities, among others. Capital expenditures were $248 million in the first three months of 2025 as compared to $272 million in the first three months of 2024. Capital expenditures in the first three months of 2025 and 2024 were primarily related to projects to increase production capacity or reduce costs, maintenance and safety projects and environmental projects at our various facilities. 31 Table of Contents Financing Activities Net cash used for financing activities during the first three months of 2025 was $115 million as compared to net cash used for financing activities of $74 million in the first three months of 2024. The financing activities during the first three months of 2025 included the payment of $68 million of cash dividends, the repurchase of $30 million of our outstanding common stock for treasury and $10 million of cash distributions to noncontrolling interests. The financing activities in the first three months of 2024 included the payment of $65 million of cash dividends and $10 million of cash distributions to noncontrolling interests. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Liquidity and Financing Arrangements Our principal sources of liquidity are from cash and cash equivalents, available-for-sale securities, cash from operations, short-term borrowings under our credit agreement and our long-term financing. In November 2014, our Board of Directors authorized a $250 million stock repurchase program (the "2014 Program"). In November 2015, our Board of Directors approved the expansion of the 2014 Program by an additional $150 million. In August 2018, our Board of Directors approved the further expansion of the existing 2014 Program by an additional $150 million. In August 2022, our Board of Directors approved the further expansion of the existing 2014 Program by an additional $500 million. During the three months ended March 31, 2025, we repurchased 279,771 shares of common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $30 million under the 2014 Program. As of March 31, 2025, we had repurchased 9,482,402 shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $664 million under the 2014 Program. Purchases under the 2014 Program may be made either through the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. Decisions regarding the amount and the timing of purchases under the 2014 Program will be influenced by our cash on hand, our cash flows from operations, general market conditions and other factors. The 2014 Program may be discontinued by our Board of Directors at any time. On October 4, 2018, Westlake Chemical Partners LP ("Westlake Partners") and Westlake Chemical Partners GP LLC, the general partner of Westlake Partners, entered into an Equity Distribution Agreement with UBS Securities LLC, Barclays Capital Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., RBC Capital Markets, LLC, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC to offer and sell Westlake Partners common units, from time to time, up to an aggregate offering amount of $50 million. This Equity Distribution Agreement was amended on February 28, 2020 to reference a new shelf registration and subsequent renewals thereof for utilization under this agreement. No common units have been issued under this program as of March 31, 2025. We believe that our sources of liquidity as described above are adequate to fund our normal operations and ongoing capital expenditures and turnaround activities. We commenced the planned maintenance turnaround at our Petro 1 ethylene facility in the first quarter of 2025, which concluded in April 2025. Funding of any potential large expansions such as our recent acquisitions or potential future acquisitions or the redemption of debt may likely necessitate, and therefore depend on, our ability to obtain additional financing in the future. We may not be able to access additional liquidity at favorable interest rates due to volatility of the commercial credit markets. Cash and Cash Equivalents and Available-For-Sale Securities As of March 31, 2025, our cash and cash equivalents totaled $2,297 million. As of March 31, 2025, our available-for-sale securities totaled $183 million. See Note 2 to the unaudited consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-Q for a discussion of our available-for-sale securities. In addition to our cash and cash equivalents, our credit agreement is available to provide liquidity as needed, as described under "Debt" below. Debt As of March 31, 2025, the carrying value of our indebtedness totaled $4,592 million. See Note 7 to the unaudited consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-Q for a discussion of our long-term indebtedness. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, which is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Based on our current level of operations and unless we were to undertake a new expansion or large acquisition, we believe our cash flows from operations, available cash and available borrowings under our credit agreement will be adequate to meet our normal operating needs for the foreseeable future. 32 Table of Contents Our long-term debt consisted of the following as of March 31, 2025: Principal Amount (in millions of dollars) Debt Issuance Date Maturity Date Par Call Date Optional Redemption Terms and Other Matters 3.60% senior notes due 2026 (the "3.60% 2026 Senior Notes") $ 750 August 2016 August 2026 May 15, 2026 (1) (4) Loan related to tax-exempt waste disposal revenue bonds due 2027 11 December 1997 December 2027 (6) 1.625% 700 million senior notes due 2029 (the "1.625% 2029 Senior Notes") 758 July 2019 July 2029 April 17, 2029 (1) (2) 3.375% senior notes due 2030 (the "3.375% 2030 Senior Notes") 300 June 2020 June 2030 March 15, 2030 (1) (3) 3.50% senior notes due 2032 (the "3.50% 2032 tax-exempt GO Zone Refunding Senior Notes") 250 November 2017 November 2032 November 1, 2027 (5) 2.875% senior notes due 2041 (the "2.875% 2041 Senior Notes") 350 August 2021 August 2041 February 15, 2041 (1) (3) 5.00% senior notes due 2046 (the "5.00% 2046 Senior Notes") 700 August 2016 August 2046 February 15, 2046 (1) (4) 4.375% senior notes due 2047 (the "4.375% 2047 Senior Notes") 500 November 2017 November 2047 May 15, 2047 (1) (3) 3.125% senior notes due 2051 (the "3.125% 2051 Senior Notes") 600 August 2021 August 2051 February 15, 2051 (1) (3) 3.375% senior notes due 2061 (the "3.375% 2061 Senior Notes") 450 August 2021 August 2061 February 15, 2061 (1) (3) Term loan 2026 (the "2026 Term Loan") 5 March 2021 March 2026 (7) Total long-term debt $ 4,674 ______________________________ (1) At our option, we may redeem the notes at any time on or after the specified par call date at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest. (2) At our option, we may redeem the notes at any time prior to the specified par call date at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the notes being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments on the notes being redeemed that would be due if the notes matured on the specified par call date (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued as of the redemption date), discounted to the redemption date on an annual basis at the applicable comparable government bond rate plus 30 basis points plus accrued and unpaid interest. (3) At our option, we may redeem the notes at any time prior to the specified par call date at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the notes being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments on the notes being redeemed that would be due if the notes matured on the specified par call date (excluding accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date), discounted to the redemption date on a semi-annual basis at the treasury rate plus 20 to 40 basis points plus accrued and unpaid interest. (4) At our option, we may redeem the notes at any time prior to the specified par call date at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the notes being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments on the notes being redeemed (excluding accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date), discounted to the redemption date on a semi-annual basis at the treasury rate plus 35 to 45 basis points, plus accrued and unpaid interest. (5) In the event of a redemption of certain bonds (the "GO Zone Bonds") issued by the Louisiana Local Government Environmental Facility and Development Authority (the "Authority") in 2017, we will redeem notes equal in principal amount to the GO Zone Bonds to be redeemed at a redemption price equal to the redemption price of the GO Zone Bonds to be redeemed, plus accrued interest to the redemption date. The GO Zone Bonds are subject to optional redemption by the Authority upon the direction of the Company at any time on or after November 1, 2027, for 100% of the principal amount plus accrued interest to the redemption date. 33 Table of Contents (6) The waste disposal revenue bonds expire in December 2027 and are subject to redemption and mandatory tender for purchase prior to maturity under certain conditions. Interest on the waste disposal revenue bonds accrues at a rate determined by a remarketing agent and is payable quarterly. The interest rate on the waste disposal revenue bonds at March 31, 2025 was 3.00%. (7) The 2026 Term Loan has a 5-year maturity and includes a government rate subsidy. The interest rate on the 2026 Term Loan as of March 31, 2025 was 1.08%. The holders of the 3.60% 2026 Senior Notes, the 1.625% 2029 Senior Notes, the 3.375% 2030 Senior Notes, the 3.50% 2032 tax-exempt GO Zone Refunding Senior Notes, the 2.875% 2041 Senior Notes, the 5.00% 2046 Senior Notes, the 4.375% 2047 Senior Notes, the 3.125% 2051 Senior Notes and the 3.375% 2061 Senior Notes may require us to repurchase the notes at a price equal to 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the date of repurchase, upon the occurrence of both a "change of control" and, within 60 days of such change of control, a "below investment grade rating event" (as such terms are defined in the respective indentures governing these notes). The indenture governing the 3.60% 2026 Senior Notes, the 1.625% 2029 Senior Notes, the 3.375% 2030 Senior Notes, the 3.50% 2032 tax-exempt GO Zone Refunding Senior Notes, the 2.875% 2041 Senior Notes, the 5.00% 2046 Senior Notes, the 4.375% 2047 Senior Notes, the 3.125% 2051 Senior Notes, and the 3.375% 2061 Senior Notes contains customary events of default and covenants that, among other things and subject to certain exceptions, restrict us and certain of our subsidiaries' ability to (1) incur certain secured indebtedness, (2) engage in certain sale and leaseback transactions and (3) consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets. As of March 31, 2025, we were in compliance with all of our long-term debt covenants. Credit Agreement On June 9, 2022, we entered into a new $1.5 billion revolving credit facility that is scheduled to mature on June 9, 2027 (the "Credit Agreement") and, in connection therewith, terminated our then existing revolving credit agreement. The Credit Agreement bears interest at either (a) Adjusted Term SOFR (as defined in the Credit Agreement) plus a margin ranging from 1.00% to 1.625% per annum or (b) Alternate Base Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement) plus a margin ranging from 0.00% to 0.625% per annum, in each case depending on the credit rating of the Company. The Credit Agreement contains certain affirmative and negative covenants, including a quarterly total leverage ratio financial maintenance covenant. As of March 31, 2025, we were in compliance with the total leverage ratio financial maintenance covenant. The Credit Agreement also contains certain events of default and, if and for so long as certain events of default have occurred and are continuing, any overdue amounts outstanding under the Credit Agreement will accrue interest at an increased rate, the lenders can terminate their commitments to lend thereunder and payments of any outstanding amounts thereunder could be accelerated by the lenders. None of our subsidiaries are required to guarantee our obligations under the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement includes a $150 million sub-limit for letters of credit, and any outstanding letters of credit will be deducted from availability under the facility. The Credit Agreement also provides for a discretionary $50 million commitment for swingline loans to be provided on a same-day basis. We may also increase the size of the facility, in increments of at least $25 million, up to a maximum of $500 million, subject to certain conditions and if certain lenders agree to commit to such an increase. Westlake Chemical Partners LP Credit Arrangements Our subsidiary, Westlake Chemical Finance Corporation, is the lender party to a $600 million revolving credit facility with Westlake Chemical Partners LP ("Westlake Partners") (the "MLP Revolver") that is scheduled to mature on July 12, 2027. As of March 31, 2025, outstanding borrowings under the credit facility totaled $377 million and bore interest at Secured Overnight Financing Rate, as administered by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York ("SOFR") plus the Applicable Margin plus a 0.10% credit spread adjustment. On July 12, 2022, Westlake Partners entered into the Fourth Amendment (the "MLP Revolver Amendment") to the MLP Revolver. The MLP Revolver Amendment, among other things, extended the maturity date to July 12, 2027 and provided for the replacement of LIBOR with SOFR. Borrowings under the MLP Revolver now bear interest at a variable rate of either (a) SOFR plus the Applicable Margin plus a 0.10% credit spread adjustment or, if SOFR is no longer available, (b) the Alternate Base Rate plus the Applicable Margin minus 1.0%. The Applicable Margin under the MLP Revolver varies between 1.75% and 2.75%, depending on the Partnership's Consolidated Leverage Ratio. 34 Table of Contents Our subsidiary, Westlake Polymers LLC, is the administrative agent to a $600 million revolving credit facility with Westlake Chemical OpCo LP ("OpCo") (the "OpCo Revolver") that is scheduled to mature on July 12, 2027. As of March 31, 2025, outstanding borrowings under the credit facility totaled $23 million and bore interest at SOFR plus the Applicable Margin of 1.75% plus a 0.10% credit spread adjustment. On July 12, 2022, OpCo entered into the Second Amendment (the "OpCo Revolver Amendment") to the OpCo Revolver. The OpCo Revolver Amendment, among other things, extended the maturity date to July 12, 2027 and provided for the replacement of LIBOR with SOFR. Borrowings under the OpCo Revolver now bear interest at a variable rate of either (a) SOFR plus the Applicable Margin plus a 0.10% credit spread adjustment or, if SOFR is no longer available, (b) the Alternate Base Rate plus the Applicable Margin minus 1.0%. The Applicable Margin under the OpCo Revolver is 1.75%. We consolidate Westlake Partners and OpCo for financial reporting purposes as we have a controlling financial interest. As such, the revolving credit facilities described above between our subsidiaries and Westlake Partners and OpCo are eliminated from the financial statements upon consolidation. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements None. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements, including expected date of adoption and estimated effect on results of operations and financial condition. 35 Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides safe harbor provisions for forward-looking information. Certain of the statements contained in this report are forward-looking statements. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included in this report that address activities, events or developments that we expect, project, believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as "believes," "intends," "may," "should," "could," "anticipates," "expected" or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategies or trends. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot give any assurances that these expectations will prove to be correct. Forward-looking statements relate to matters such as: the ultimate timing, outcome and results of integrating the operations of any acquisitions and the ultimate outcome of our operating efficiencies applied to the products and services; the effects of any such acquisition, including the combined company's future financial condition, results of operations, strategy and plans; and expected synergies and other benefits from any such acquisition and our ability to realize such synergies and other benefits; future operating rates, margins, cash flows and demand for our products; industry market outlook, including the price of crude oil, natural gas, ethane, housing starts and repair and remodeling activity; macroeconomic outlook, including elevated interest rates, inflation and possible recession; widespread outbreak of an illness or any other communicable disease, or any other public health crisis; production capacities; the impact of ongoing conflicts in the Middle East and between Russia and Ukraine; currency devaluation; our ability to borrow under our credit agreement; our ability to meet our liquidity needs; our ability to meet debt obligations under our debt instruments; our intended quarterly dividends; future capacity additions and expansions in the industries in which we compete; timing, funding and results of capital projects; pension plan obligations, funding requirements and investment policies; compliance with present and future environmental regulations and costs associated with environmentally related penalties, capital expenditures, remedial actions and proceedings, including any new laws, regulations or treaties that may come into force to limit or control carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions or to address other issues of climate change; recovery of losses under our insurance policies; effects of pending legal proceedings and settlements; timing of and amount of capital expenditures; increased costs and other effects of tariffs imposed by the U.S. government, and any effects on trading relationships among the United States and other countries; and results of mothballing of the AC and ECH Units (such as timing and amount of recognition of related costs, expectation of improvement of the financial performance of our Pernis, Netherlands site). 36 Table of Contents We have based these statements on assumptions and analyses in light of our experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors we believe were appropriate in the circumstances when the statements were made. Forward-looking statements by their nature involve substantial risks and uncertainties that could significantly impact expected results, and actual future results could differ materially from those described in such statements. While it is not possible to identify all factors, we continue to face many risks and uncertainties. Among the factors that could cause actual future results to differ materially are the risks and uncertainties discussed under "Risk Factors" in the 2024 Form 10-K and those described from time to time in our other filings with the SEC including, but not limited to, the following: general economic and business conditions, including inflation, interest rates and possible recession; the cyclical nature of the chemical and building products industries; the availability, cost and volatility of raw materials and energy; uncertainties associated with the United States, European and worldwide economies, including those due to political tensions and conflict in the Middle East, Russia and Ukraine and elsewhere; uncertainties associated with pandemic infectious diseases; uncertainties associated with climate change; the potential impact on demand for ethylene, polyethylene and polyvinyl chloride due to initiatives such as recycling and customers seeking alternatives to polymers; current and potential governmental regulatory actions in the United States and other countries; industry production capacity and operating rates; the supply/demand balance for our products; competitive products and pricing pressures; instability in the credit and financial markets; access to capital markets; terrorist acts; operating interruptions (including leaks, explosions, fires, weather-related incidents, mechanical failure, unscheduled downtime, labor difficulties, transportation interruptions, spills and releases and other environmental risks); changes in laws or regulations, including trade policies and tariffs imposed on or by foreign jurisdictions; disruptions in global trade, including as a result of tariffs, trade restrictions, retaliatory trade measures or the effect of such actions on trading relationships between the United States and other countries; technological developments; information systems failures and cyberattacks; foreign currency exchange risks; our ability to implement our business strategies; and creditworthiness of our customers. Many of such factors are beyond our ability to control or predict. Any of the factors, or a combination of these factors, could materially affect our future results of operations and the ultimate accuracy of the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of our future performance, and our actual results and future developments may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Management cautions against putting undue reliance on forward-looking statements or projecting any future results based on such statements or present or prior earnings levels. Every forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the particular statement, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. 37 Table of Contents