ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this report. The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed below and elsewhere in this report, as well as in the section entitled Risk Factors. Overview Workday provides financial management, human capital management, and analytics applications designed for the world's largest companies, educational institutions, and government agencies. We offer innovative and adaptable technology focused on the consumer Internet experience and cloud delivery model. Our applications are designed for global enterprises to manage complex and dynamic operating environments. We provide our customers highly adaptable, accessible and reliable applications to manage critical business functions that enable them to optimize their financial and human capital resources. We were founded in 2005 to deliver cloud applications to global enterprises. Our applications are designed around the way people work today in an environment that is global, collaborative, fast-paced and mobile. Our cycle of frequent updates has facilitated rapid innovation and the introduction of new applications throughout our history. We began offering our Human Capital Management (HCM) application in 2006. Since then we have continued to invest in innovation and have consistently introduced new services to our customers, including our Financial Management application in 2007, our Procurement and Employee Expense Management applications in 2008, our Payroll and mobile applications in 2009, our Talent Management application in 2010, our native iPad application and Workday integration platform in 2011, our Time Tracking and Grants Management applications in 2012, Recruiting in 2014, and Insight Applications and Professional Services Automation in 2015. We offer Workday applications to our customers on an enterprise-wide subscription basis, typically with three-year terms and with subscription fees largely based on the size of the customers workforce. We generally recognize revenues from subscription fees ratably over the term of the contract. We currently derive a substantial majority of our subscription services revenues from subscriptions to our HCM application. We market our applications primarily through our direct sales force. We have achieved significant growth in a relatively short period of time. Our diverse customer base includes large, global companies and our direct sales force generally targets organizations with more than 1,000 workers. A substantial majority of our growth comes from new customers. Our current financial focus is on growing our revenues and expanding our customer base. While we are incurring losses today, we strive to invest in a disciplined manner across all of our functional areas to sustain continued near-term revenue growth and support our long-term initiatives. Our operating expenses have increased significantly in absolute dollars in recent periods, primarily due to the significant growth of our employee population. We had approximately 4,100 and approximately 2,900 employees as of April 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. We intend to continue investing for long-term growth. We have invested, and expect to continue to invest, heavily in our application development efforts to deliver additional compelling applications and to address customers evolving needs. In addition, we plan to continue to expand our ability to sell our applications globally, particularly in Europe and Asia, through investments in product development and customer support to address the business needs of local markets, increasing our sales and marketing organizations, adding new offices, and expanding our ecosystem of services partners to support local deployments. We expect to make further significant investments in our data center infrastructure in fiscal 2016 as we plan for future growth. We are also investing in personnel to service our growing customer base. These investments will increase our costs on an absolute basis in the near-term. Many of these investments will occur in advance of experiencing any direct benefit from them and will make it difficult to determine if we are allocating our resources efficiently. We expect our product development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues to decrease over time as we grow our revenues, and we anticipate that we will gain economies of scale by increasing our customer base without direct incremental development costs and by utilizing more of the capacity of our data centers. Since inception, we have invested heavily in our professional services organization to help ensure that customers successfully deploy and adopt our applications. Additionally, we continue to expand our professional services partner ecosystem to further support our customers. We believe our investment in professional services, as well as partners building consulting practices around Workday, will drive additional customer subscriptions and continued growth in revenues. In addition, over time we expect professional services revenues and the cost of professional services as a percentage of total revenues will decline as we increasingly rely on our partners to deploy Workday applications and as the number of our existing customers continues to grow. 19 Table of Contents Components of Results of Operations Revenues We primarily derive our revenues from subscription services fees and professional services fees. Subscription services revenues primarily consist of fees that give our customers access to our cloud applications, which include routine customer support at no additional cost. Professional services fees include deployment services, optimization services, and training. Subscription services revenues accounted for 80% of our total revenues during the three months ended April 30, 2015 and represented 96% of our total unearned revenue as of April 30, 2015. Subscription services revenues are driven primarily by the number of customers, the number of workers at each customer, the number of applications subscribed to by each customer, and the price of our applications. The mix of the applications to which a customer subscribes can affect our financial performance due to price differentials in our applications. Compared to our other offerings, our HCM application has been available for a longer period of time, is more established in the marketplace and has benefited from continued enhancements of the functionality over a longer period of time, all of which help us to improve our pricing for that application. However, new products or services offerings by competitors in the future could impact the mix and pricing of our offerings. Subscription services fees are recognized ratably as revenues over the contract term beginning on the date the application is made available to the customer, which is generally within one week of contract signing. Our subscription contracts typically have a term of three years and are non-cancelable. We generally invoice our customers in advance, in annual installments. Amounts that have been invoiced are initially recorded as unearned revenue. Amounts that have not yet been invoiced represent backlog and are not reflected in our condensed consolidated financial statements. The majority of our consulting engagements are billed on a time and materials basis, and revenues are typically recognized as the services are performed. We offer a number of training options intended to support our customers in configuring, using and administering our services. In some cases, we supplement our consulting teams by subcontracting resources from our service partners and deploying them on customer engagements. As Workdays professional services organization and the Workday-related consulting practices of our partner firms continue to develop, we expect the partners to increasingly contract directly with our subscription customers. As a result of this trend, and the increase of our subscription services revenues, we expect professional services revenues as a percentage of total revenues to decline over time. Costs and Expenses Costs of subscription services revenues. Costs of subscription services revenues consist primarily of employee-related expenses related to hosting our applications and providing customer support, the costs of data center capacity, and depreciation of owned and leased computer equipment and software. Costs of professional services revenues . Costs of professional services revenues consist primarily of employee-related expenses associated with these services, the cost of subcontractors and travel. Product development . Product development expenses consist primarily of employee-related costs. We continue to focus our product development efforts on adding new features and applications, increasing the functionality and enhancing the ease of use of our cloud applications. Sales and marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of employee-related costs, sales commissions, marketing programs and travel. Marketing programs consist of advertising, events, corporate communications, brand building and product marketing activities. Commissions earned by our sales force that can be associated specifically with a non-cancelable subscription contract are generally deferred and amortized over the same period that revenues are recognized for the related non-cancelable contract. General and administrative . General and administrative expenses consist of employee-related costs for finance and accounting, legal, human resources and management information systems personnel, legal costs, professional fees and other corporate expenses. 20 Table of Contents Results of Operations Revenues Our total revenues for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 were as follows: Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 % Change (in thousands) Revenues: Subscription services $ 200,993 $ 123,407 63 % Professional services 49,964 36,330 38 Total revenues $ 250,957 $ 159,737 57 Total revenues were $251 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015 , compared to $160 million during the prior year period, an increase of $91 million , or 57% . Subscription services revenues were $201 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015 , compared to $123 million for the prior year period, an increase of $78 million , or 63% . The increase in subscription services revenues was due primarily to the recognition of revenue for an increased number of customer contracts as compared to the prior year period. Professional services revenues were $50 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015 , compared to $36 million for the prior year period, an increase of $14 million , or 38% . The increase in professional services revenues was due primarily to the addition of new customers and a greater number of customers requesting deployment and integration services. Core Operating Expenses We use the non-GAAP financial measure of core operating expenses to understand and compare operating results across accounting periods, for internal budgeting and forecasting purposes, for short- and long-term operating plans, and to evaluate our financial performance and the ability of operations to generate cash. We believe that core operating expenses reflects our ongoing business in a manner that allows for meaningful period-to-period comparisons and analysis of trends in our business, as it excludes expenses that are not reflective of ongoing operating results. We also believe that core operating expenses provide useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results and future prospects in the same manner as management and in comparing financial results across accounting periods and to those of peer companies. The following discussion of our core operating expenses and the components of our core operating expenses highlights the factors that we focus upon in evaluating our operating margin and operating expenses. The increases or decreases in operating expenses discussed in this section do not include changes relating to share-based compensation, and certain other expenses, which consist of employer payroll tax-related items on employee stock transactions and amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets. 21 Table of Contents Reconciliation of our core operating expenses to the nearest GAAP measure, total operating expenses, is as follows: Three months ended April 30, 2015 Core Operating Expenses (1) Share-Based Compensation Expenses Other Operating Expenses Total Operating Expenses (in thousands) Costs of subscription services $ 29,548 $ 2,048 $ 186 $ 31,782 Costs of professional services 42,324 3,454 354 46,132 Product development 76,211 20,811 2,313 99,335 Sales and marketing 85,899 8,365 631 94,895 General and administrative 19,034 12,596 587 32,217 Total costs and expenses $ 253,016 $ 47,274 $ 4,071 $ 304,361 Operating loss $ (2,059 ) $ (47,274 ) $ (4,071 ) $ (53,404 ) Operating margin (1 )% (19 )% (2 )% (21 )% Three Months Ended April 30, 2014 Core Operating Expenses(1) Share-Based Compensation Expenses Other Operating Expenses Total Operating Expenses (in thousands) Costs of subscription services $ 20,358 $ 1,055 $ 46 $ 21,459 Costs of professional services 33,673 2,198 89 $ 35,960 Product development 53,621 10,868 682 $ 65,171 Sales and marketing 61,142 6,752 273 $ 68,167 General and administrative 13,471 8,001 (409 ) $ 21,063 Total costs and expenses $ 182,265 $ 28,874 $ 681 $ 211,820 Operating loss $ (22,528 ) $ (28,874 ) $ (681 ) $ (52,083 ) Operating margin (14 )% (18 )% (1 )% (33 )% (1) See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for further information. Core operating margins Core operating margins, calculated using GAAP revenues and core operating expenses, improved from (14)% for the three months ended April 30, 2014 to (1)% for the three months ended April 30, 2015 . The improvements in our core operating margins in the three months ended April 30, 2015 were primarily due to higher subscription services revenues, higher professional services revenues driven by continued increased demand for services, and improvements to operating leverage. In evaluating our results, we generally focus on core operating expenses. We believe that our core operating expenses reflect our ongoing business in a manner that allows meaningful period-to-period comparisons. Our core operating expenses are reconciled to the most comparable GAAP measure, total operating expenses, in the table above. Core operating expenses increased by $71 million , or 39% for the three months ended April 30, 2015 compared to the prior year period. The increases were primarily due to higher employee-related costs driven by higher headcount. Costs of subscription services Core operating expenses in costs of subscription services were $30 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015 , compared to $20 million for the prior year period, an increase of $10 million, or 45% . The increase was primarily due to an increase of $3 million in employee-related costs driven by higher headcount, an increase of $3 million in depreciation expense related to our data centers and an increase of $2 million in facility and IT-related expenses. We expect that core operating expenses in costs of subscription services will continue to increase in absolute dollars as we improve and expand our data center capacity and operations. 22 Table of Contents Costs of professional services Core operating expenses in costs of professional services were $42 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015 , compared to $34 million for the prior year period, an $8 million increase, or 26% . This increase was primarily due to increases of $9 million to staff our deployment and integration engagements. Over time, we expect costs of professional services as a percentage of total revenues to continue to decline as we increasingly rely on third parties to deploy our applications and as the number of our customers continues to grow. For fiscal 2016, we anticipate professional services margins to be lower than fiscal 2015 as we invest in building our partnership ecosystem in new market segments and geographies. Product development Core operating expenses in product development were $76 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015 , compared to $54 million for the prior year period, an increase of $22 million, or 42% . The increase was primarily due to increases of $17 million in employee compensation costs due to higher headcount and $4 million in facility and IT-related expenses. We expect that product development expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars as we improve and extend our applications and develop new technologies. Sales and marketing Core operating expenses in sales and marketing were $86 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015 , compared to $61 million for the prior year period, an increase of $25 million , or 41% . The increase was primarily due to increases of $14 million in employee compensation costs due to higher headcount and higher commissionable sales volume, $6 million in advertising, marketing and event costs, $3 million in travel expenses and $2 million in facility and IT-related expenses. We expect that sales and marketing expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest in the expansion of our domestic and international selling and marketing activities to build brand awareness and attract new customers. General and administrative Core operating expenses in general and administrative were $19 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015 , compared to $13 million for the prior year period, an increase of $6 million , or 41% . The increase was primarily due to $4 million in higher employee compensation costs due to higher headcount and $2 million in higher consulting fees. We expect general and administrative expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars as we further invest in our infrastructure and support our international expansion. Share-Based Compensation Expenses Share-based compensation expenses were $47 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015 , compared to $29 million for the prior year period. The increase in share-based compensation expenses was primarily due to grants of restricted stock units to existing and new employees during the three months ended April 30, 2015 . During the three months ended April 30, 2015 , the realized excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation were immaterial. Other Operating Expenses Other operating expenses include employer payroll tax-related items on employee stock transactions of $4 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and $0.5 million for the prior year period. In addition, other operating expenses included amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets of $0.3 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and $0.2 million for the prior year period. Other Expense, Net Other expense, net, for the three months ended April 30, 2015 , was comparable to the prior year period. The contractual cash interest expense was $2 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015 , and $2 million for the prior year period. The non-cash interest expense related to amortization of the debt discount and amortization of debt issuance costs was $6 million for each of the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014. 23 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources As of April 30, 2015 , our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaling $1.9 billion, which were held for working capital purposes. Our cash equivalents and marketable securities are comprised primarily of U.S. agency obligations, U.S. treasury securities, U.S. corporate securities, commercial paper, and money market funds. We have financed our operations primarily through sales of equity securities, customer payments, and issuance of debt. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our customer growth rate, subscription renewal activity, the timing and extent of development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the introduction of new and enhanced services offerings, the continuing market acceptance of our services, and acquisition activities. We may enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services, technologies, or intellectual property rights in the future. We also may choose to seek additional equity or debt financing. Our cash flows for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 were as follows: Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 (in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 94,059 $ 21,697 Investing activities (124,348 ) (352,366 ) Financing activities 2,533 (4,695 ) Effect of exchange rate changes 48 39 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (27,708 ) $ (335,325 ) In evaluating our performance internally, we focus on long-term, sustainable growth in free cash flows. We define free cash flows, a non-GAAP financial measure, as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities minus purchases of property and equipment, property and equipment acquired under capital leases and purchases of other (non-acquisition-related) intangible assets. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for further information. Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 (in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 94,059 21,697 Purchase of property and equipment (30,180 ) (9,873 ) Free cash flows 63,879 11,824 Trailing Twelve Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 (in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 174,365 $ 50,650 Purchase of property and equipment (123,953 ) (68,703 ) Purchase of other intangible assets - (15,000 ) Free cash flows $ 50,412 $ (33,053 ) Operating Activities We use net cash provided by operating activities as a key financial metric. For the three months ended April 30, 2015 , cash provided by operating activities was $94 million , as compared to $22 million for the prior year period. The improvement in cash flow provided by operating activities was primarily due to increased cash collections driven by significant billing activities during the three months ended January 31, 2015, for which we received payment in Q1, partially offset by increases in our headcount and other operational expenses. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities for the three months ended April 30, 2015 was $124 million , which was primarily the result of the timing of purchases and maturities of marketable securities and capital expenditures of $30 million. We expect capital 24 Table of Contents expenditures will be approximately $150 million for the year ended January 31, 2016 . We expect that these capital outlays will largely be used to expand the infrastructure of our data centers and to build out additional office space to support our growth. We acquired a leasehold interest in land in Pleasanton adjacent to our existing office space in January 31, 2014. We are actively evaluating construction alternatives for this site and therefore have not yet factored any related development costs into our expected capital expenditures described above. Cash used in investing activities for the three months ended April 30, 2014 was $352 million , which was primarily the result of the timing of purchases and maturities of marketable securities and of capital expenditures. Financing Activities For the three months ended April 30, 2015 , cash provided by financing activities was $3 million , which was primarily due to $4 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock from employee equity plans, partially offset by $1 million in principal payments on our capital lease obligations. For the three months ended April 30, 2014 , cash used in financing activities was $5 million , which was primarily due to $5 million of Class A common share repurchases for tax withholdings on vesting of restricted stock units and $3 million in principal payments on our capital lease obligations, which were partially offset by $3 million of proceeds from issuance of common stock from employee equity plans. Free Cash Flows In addition to net cash used by operating activities, management uses free cash flows as a key financial metric. Free cash flows improved by $52 million to $64 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015 , compared to $12 million for the prior year period. The improvement was primarily due to increased sales and the related cash collections, partially offset by increased capital expenditures and higher operating expenses, driven primarily by increased headcount. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation S-K Item 10(e), Use of non-GAAP financial measures in Commission filings, defines and prescribes the conditions for use of non-GAAP financial information. Our measures of core operating expenses, core operating margin and free cash flows each meet the definition of a non-GAAP financial measure. Core Operating Expenses We define core operating expenses as our total operating expenses excluding the following components, which we believe are not reflective of our ongoing operational expenses. In each case, for the reasons set forth below, management believes that excluding the component provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results and future prospects in the same manner as management, in comparing financial results across accounting periods and to those of peer companies and to better understand the long-term performance of our core business. Share-Based Compensation Expenses. Although share-based compensation is an important aspect of the compensation of our employees and executives, management believes it is useful to exclude share-based compensation in order to better understand the long-term performance of our core business and to facilitate comparison of our results to those of peer companies. For restricted share awards, the amount of share-based compensation expenses is not reflective of the value ultimately received by the grant recipients. Moreover, determining the fair value of certain of the share-based instruments we utilize involves a high degree of judgment and estimation and the expense recorded may bear little resemblance to the actual value realized upon the vesting or future exercise of the related share-based awards. Unlike cash compensation, the value of stock options and shares issued under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, which is an element of our ongoing share-based compensation expenses, is determined using a complex formula that incorporates factors, such as market volatility and forfeiture rates, that are beyond our control. Other Operating Expenses. Other operating expenses included employer payroll tax-related items on employee stock transactions and amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets. The amount of employer payroll tax-related items on share-based compensation is dependent on our stock price and other factors that are beyond our control and do not correlate to the operation of the business. For business combinations, we generally allocate a portion of the purchase price to intangible assets. The amount of the allocation is based on estimates and assumptions made by management and is subject to amortization. The amount of purchase price allocated to intangible assets and the term of its related amortization can vary significantly and are unique to each acquisition and thus we do not believe it is reflective of our ongoing operations. 25 Table of Contents Free cash flows We define free cash flows as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities minus purchases of property and equipment, property and equipment acquired under capital leases and purchases of other (non-acquisition-related) intangible assets. We use free cash flows as a measure of financial progress in our business, as it balances operating results, cash management and capital efficiency. When calculating free cash flows, we subtract the gross value of all equipment acquired in the period, even when acquired under capital leases, so that we can evaluate our progress on free cash flows independent of our capital financing decisions. We believe information regarding free cash flows provides investors and others with an important perspective on the cash available to make strategic acquisitions and investments, to fund ongoing operations and to fund other capital expenditures. Limitations on the use of non-GAAP financial measures A limitation of our non-GAAP financial measures of core operating expenses, core operating margin and free cash flows is that they do not have uniform definitions. Our definitions will likely differ from the definitions used by other companies, including peer companies, and therefore comparability may be limited. Thus, our non-GAAP measures of core operating expenses, core operating margin and free cash flows should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or in isolation from, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Additionally, in the case of share-based compensation, if we did not pay out a portion of compensation in the form of share-based compensation and related employer payroll tax-related items, the cash salary expense included in costs of revenues and operating expenses would be higher, which would affect our cash position. Further, the non-GAAP measure of core operating expenses has certain limitations because it does not reflect all items of expense that affect our operations and are reflected in the GAAP measure of total operating expenses. We compensate for these limitations by reconciling core operating expenses to the most comparable GAAP financial measure and reviewing these measures in conjunction with GAAP financial information. We encourage investors and others to review our financial information in its entirety, not to rely on any single financial measure and to view our non-GAAP financial measures in conjunction with the most comparable GAAP financial measures. See Results of OperationsCore Operating Expenses for a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measure of core operating expenses to the most comparable GAAP measure, total operating expenses, for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014. See Liquidity and Capital Resources for a reconciliation of free cash flows to the most comparable GAAP measure, Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014. Commitments Our principal commitments primarily consist of obligations under leases for office space and co-location facilities for data center capacity and our development and test data center, as well as computer equipment. As of April 30, 2015 , the future non-cancelable minimum payments under operating leases were $ 188 million. During the remainder of the year ended January 31, 2016 , we anticipate leasing additional office space near our headquarters and in various other locations around the world to support our growth. In addition, our existing lease agreements often provide us with an option to renew. We expect our future operating lease obligations will increase as we expand our operations. In January 2014, we entered into a 95-year lease for a 6.9-acre parcel of vacant land adjacent to our existing Pleasanton, California facilities, under which we paid $2 million for base rent from commencement through December 31, 2020. Annual rent payments of $0.2 million plus increases based on increases in the consumer price index begin on January 1, 2021 and continue through the end of the lease. If construction does not commence by December 31, 2015, we will be required to make additional payments to the lessor, ranging from $0.2 million to $1 million based on the length of the delay. We are not required to make principal payments under the Notes prior to maturity. If the Notes are not converted to Class A common stock prior to their maturity dates, we are required to repay $350 million in principal on July 15, 2018 and $250 million in principal on July 15, 2020. We are also required to make interest payments on a semi-annual basis at the interest rates described in Note 8 of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements. We do not consider outstanding purchase orders to be purchase commitments as they represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Through April 30, 2015 , we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated organizations or financial partnerships, such as structured finance or special purpose entities that would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. 26 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. During the three months ended April 30, 2015 , there were no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as described in financial statements contained in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2015 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on March 25, 2015. 27 Table of Contents