Management's Discussion and Analysis, included in Item 7 of this combined Form 10-K, for additional information. Manufacturing and Supply Our manufacturing and distribution facilities are located around the world. Our largest manufacturing site is in Webster, N.Y., where we produce the Xerox iGen, Nuvera, and Baltoro production printing presses and new 3D printers as well as key components and consumables for our products, such as toner. We have manufacturing operations for materials and components in Dundalk, Ireland; Wilsonville, OR; Venray, Netherlands; Ontario, Canada; and Oklahoma City, OK. We conduct sustainable manufacturing in all of these facilities. In addition, we work with various manufacturing and distribution partners. This diversification of suppliers brings flexibility and cost efficiency to our manufacturing and supply chain, a critical component in our strategic initiative to optimize operations for simplicity. FUJIFILM Business Innovation Corp. (formerly Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd.) is our largest partner with whom we maintain product sourcing agreements for specific products across our entry, mid-range and high-end portfolios. We also acquire products from various third parties to increase the breadth of our product portfolio and meet channel requirements. In addition, we outsource certain specialized manufacturing activities to partners, such as Flex Ltd. and Jabil Inc., which are global contract manufacturers with whom we have long-standing relationships. Our supply chain operations utilize a network of world-class logistics partners who offer warehousing and transportation services. Reverse Logistics is an integral part of our sustainability mission, and we perform these operations at our facility in Cincinnati, OH, and with a network of various partners worldwide. Refer to "Contractual Cash Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments and Contingencies" in the Capital Resources and Liquidity section of Management's Discussion and Analysis, included in Item 7 of this combined Form 10-K for additional information regarding our relationship with FUJIFILM Business Innovation Corp. International Operations The financial measures, by geographical area for 2021, 2020 and 2019, are included in Note 3 - Segment and Geographic Area Reporting in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. See also the risk factor entitled Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted by conditions abroad, including local economic and political environments, fluctuating foreign currencies and shifting regulatory schemes in Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors of this combined report on Form 10-K. Xerox 2021 Annual Report 11 Table of Contents Seasonality Our revenues may be affected by such factors as the introduction of new products, the length of sales cycles and the seasonality of technology purchases and printing volume. These factors have historically resulted in lower revenues, operating profits and operating cash flows in the first and third quarters. However, the COVID-19 pandemic and related business closures, as well as supply chain disruptions that limited our ability to install orders, impacted demand behaviors and installation timing during 2021, and is expected to have an impact on the seasonal fluctuations in revenue during 2022. For discussion regarding the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and supply chain disruptions on our business and financial results, see Management's Discussion and Analysis, included in Item 7 of this combined Form 10-K, as well as in Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors of this combined report on Form 10-K. Backlog In prior years, backlog has not been a meaningful indicator of future business prospects because a significant proportion of our revenue was fulfilled from existing inventories or within a short period of order signing. Accordingly, our level of backlog remained fairly consistent period to period. However, in 2021 we experienced an unprecedented level of supply chain disruption, in part due the ongoing effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. These supply chain disruptions resulted in an increase to our backlog 1 of equipment and IT hardware to nearly $350 million, which is approximately 2.5 times higher than at the end of 2020. In 2022, we expect to continue to have an elevated backlog at least through the first half of the year. _____________ (1) Order backlog is measured as the value of unfulfilled sales orders, shipped and non-shipped, received from our customers waiting to be installed, including orders with future installation dates. It includes printing devices as well as IT hardware associated with our IT services offerings. Other Information Xerox Holdings Corporation Xerox Holdings is a New York corporation, organized in 2019 and our principal executive offices are located at 201 Merritt 7, P.O. Box 4505, Norwalk, Connecticut 06851-1056. Our telephone number is 203-849-5216. Xerox Corporation Xerox is a New York corporation, organized in 1906 and our principal executive offices are located at 201 Merritt 7, P.O. Box 4505, Norwalk, Connecticut 06851-1056. Our telephone number is 203-849-5216. Within the Investor Relations section of Xerox Holdings' website, you will find our combined Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports. We make these documents available timely after we have filed them with, or furnished them to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The SEC's Internet address is www.sec.gov. Our Internet address is www.xerox.com . The content of our website is not incorporated by reference in this combined Form 10-K unless expressly noted. Xerox 2021 Annual Report 12 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors as well as the other information included, and risks described, in other sections of this combined Form 10-K, including under the headings Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements, Legal Proceedings, and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes thereto. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. The selected risks described below, however, are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently view to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Summary of Risk Factors These statements reflect managements current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. Such factors include but are not limited to: The effects of pandemics, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, on our and our customers' businesses and the duration and extent to which a pandemic may impact our future results of operations and overall financial performance; Our ability to address our business challenges in order to reverse revenue declines, reduce costs and increase productivity so that we can invest in and grow our business; Our ability to successfully develop new products, technologies and service offerings and to protect our intellectual property rights; Reliance on third parties, including subcontractors, for manufacturing of products and provision of services and the shared services arrangements entered into by us as part of Project Own It; Our ability to attract and retain key personnel; The risk that confidential and/or individually identifiable information of ours, our customers, clients and employees could be inadvertently disclosed or disclosed as a result of a breach of our security systems due to cyber attacks or other intentional acts or that cyberattacks could result in a shutdown of our systems; The risk that partners, subcontractors and software vendors will not perform in a timely, quality manner; Actions of competitors and our ability to promptly and effectively react to changing technologies and customer expectations; Our ability to obtain adequate pricing for our products and services and to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations, including savings from restructuring and transformation actions; Our ability to manage changes in the printing environment like the decline in the volume of printed pages and extension of equipment placements; Changes in economic and political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements and tax laws in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we do business; The risk that multi-year contracts with governmental entities could be terminated prior to the end of the contract term and that civil or criminal penalties and administrative sanctions could be imposed on us if we fail to comply with the terms of such contracts and applicable law; Interest rates, cost of borrowing and access to credit markets; The imposition of new or incremental trade protection measures such as tariffs and import or export restrictions; Funding requirements associated with our employee pension and retiree health benefit plans; Changes in foreign currency exchange rates; The risk that our operations and products may not comply with applicable worldwide regulatory requirements, particularly environmental regulations and directives and anti-corruption laws; The outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; and Any impacts resulting from the restructuring of our relationship with FUJIFILM Business Innovation Corp. (formerly Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd.). Xerox 2021 Annual Report 13 Table of Contents Company-Specific Risk Factors The effects of pandemics, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, may materially affect how we and our customers operate our businesses, and the duration and extent to which a pandemic may impact our future results of operations and overall financial performance is uncertain. Since March 2020, when the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 a pandemic, the spread of the virus and its variants throughout the U.S. and the world has prompted authorities to implement numerous measures to contain the virus, including travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter-in-place orders, and business limitations and shutdowns. The availability of vaccines introduced in 2021 slowed the spread of the virus in many regions, but because vaccination has not been universal and new variants emerged during 2021, surges have continued to arise, leading to further disruptions and uncertainties throughout the world. The COVID-19 pandemic continues to negatively impact the global economy, disrupt customer spending and global supply chains, and create significant volatility and disruption of financial markets. The extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business and financial performance, including our ability to execute our near-term and long-term business strategies and initiatives within the expected time frames, will depend on future developments, including the duration and severity of the pandemic and the extent and effectiveness of containment actions , which are uncertain and cannot be predicted. Our operations are being negatively affected by a range of external factors related to the COVID-19 pandemic that are not within our control. For example, many countries, states, and localities continue to impose restrictions to limit the spread of COVID-19, which in turn limit our ability, as well as that of our channel partners, to sell, install and service our equipment for our customers negatively impacting our operations and financial performance. Even when governmental restrictions have ended or eased, COVID-19 surges have caused many businesses to continue or resume requiring or encouraging their office employees to work from home for extended periods of time, which is negatively impacting both sales and use of Xerox products, supplies and services. The longer this persists, the greater effect it will have on our print business. If we are unsuccessful at addressing our business challenges, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected and our ability to invest in and grow our business could be limited. One set of challenges relates to dynamic and accelerating market trends, such as the declines in installations and printed pages, fewer devices per location and an increase in electronic documentation. A second set of challenges relates to changes in the competitive landscape. Our primary competitors are exerting increased competitive pressure in targeted areas and are entering new markets; our emerging competitors are introducing new technologies and business models. These market and competitive trends make it difficult to reverse the decline in revenue experienced over the past several years prior to the challenges brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic. A third set of challenges relates to our continued efforts to reduce costs and increase productivity in light of declining revenues. Given the markets in which we compete and the broad range of geographic regions in which we and our customers and partners operate, the COVID-19 pandemic and related supply chain disruptions have overlaid increased risks on our ongoing efforts to address these cost and productivity challenges. Lastly, political and social conditions in the markets in which our products are sold have been and could continue to be difficult to predict, resulting in adverse effects on our business. The results of elections, referendums or other political conditions (including government shutdowns or hostilities between countries) could adversely affect our business. In connection with our standing up of several businesses, including CareAR and FITTLE, we face additional risks regarding whether these businesses will achieve expectations regarding customer adoption and financial performance, including projected revenue for fiscal year 2022. If we do not succeed in these efforts, or if these efforts are more costly or time-consuming than expected, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected, which could limit our ability to invest in and grow our business. If we fail to successfully develop new products, technologies and service offerings and protect our intellectual property rights, we may be unable to retain current customers and gain new customers and our revenues would decline. The process of developing new products and solutions is inherently complex and uncertain. It requires accurate anticipation of customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends. We must work with our supply partners and commit resources before knowing whether these initiatives will result in products that are commercially successful and generate the revenues required to provide desired returns. In developing these new technologies and products, we rely upon patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States and similar laws in other countries, and agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain our intellectual property rights in technology and products used in our operations. It is possible that our Xerox 2021 Annual Report 14 Table of Contents intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, allowing others to use our intellectual property to our competitive detriment. Also, the laws of certain countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States and we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position. In addition, some of our products rely on technologies developed by third parties. We may not be able to obtain or to continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties at all or on reasonable terms, or such third parties may demand cross-licenses to our intellectual property. If we fail to accurately anticipate and meet our customers' needs through the development of new products, technologies and service offerings or if we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, we could lose market share and customers to our competitors and that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our strategy requires us to expand into adjacent markets with new products, services and technology such as Digital Packaging and Print, AI Workflow Assistants for Knowledge Workers, 3D Printing / Digital Manufacturing, IT Services and software. Our ability to develop or acquire new products, services and technologies for these adjacent markets requires the investment of significant resources, which may not lead to the development of new technologies, products or services on a timely basis. We must also attract, develop and retain individuals with the requisite technical expertise and understanding of customers' needs to develop new technologies and introduce new products, particularly as we increase investment in these areas of the business. Similar to above, if we fail to accurately anticipate and meet our customers' needs in these adjacent markets through the development of new products, technologies and service offerings or if we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, we could lose market share and customers to our competitors and that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We need to successfully manage changes in the printing environment and market because our operating results may be negatively impacted by lower equipment placements and usage trends. The printing market and environment are changing as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, development of new technologies, shifts in customer preferences in printing and the expansion of new printing markets as well as ancillary markets. The process of developing new high-technology products, software, services and solutions and enhancing existing hardware and software products, services and solutions is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to accurately anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends could significantly harm our market share, results of operations and financial condition. Examples include mobile printing, color printing, packaging, print on objects, continuous-feed inkjet printing and the expansion of the market for entry products (A4 printers) and high-end products as well as electronic delivery, and cloud-based computing and software. These changing market trends are also opening up new ancillary markets for our products, services and software. A significant part of our strategy and ultimate success in this changing market is our ability to develop and market technology that produces products, services and software that meet these changes. We expect that revenue growth can be improved through improving the software features of our multifunction devices, expanding color printing to include metallic, fluorescent, and clear ink and digital packaging, and leveraging a strong base in managed print services with new digital, analytics, and security features. Our software strategy involves software for integrated solutions and delivery of industry-focused services into an existing customer base. We also expect to extend our presence in the SMB market through organic and inorganic investments as well as further expansion into channels and eCommerce and investments in innovation including digital packaging, AI workflow assistants for knowledge workers, 3D printing and digital manufacturing, sensors and services for IoT and clean tech. Our future success in executing on this strategy depends on our ability to make the investments and commit the necessary resources in this highly competitive market. Despite this investment, the process of developing new products or technologies is inherently complex and uncertain and there are a number of risks that we are subject to including the risk that our products or technologies will not successfully satisfy our customers needs or gain market acceptance. Additionally, the COVID-19 pandemic has negatively impacted our ability to execute our near-term business strategies and initiatives. The long-term impact will depend on future developments, including the duration and severity of the pandemic and the extent and effectiveness of containment actions, which are uncertain and cannot be predicted. If we are unable to develop and market advanced and competitive technologies, it may negatively impact our future revenue growth and market share as well as our planned expansion into new or alternative markets. Additionally, it may negatively impact expansion of our worldwide equipment placements, as well as sales of services and supplies occurring after the initial equipment placement (post sale revenue) in the key growth markets of digital printing, color and multifunction system. If we are unable to maintain a consistent level of revenue, it could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Xerox 2021 Annual Report 15 Table of Contents We face significant competition and our failure to compete successfully could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We operate in an environment of significant competition, driven by rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards, and demands of customers to become more efficient. Our competitors include large international companies some of which have significant financial resources and compete with us globally to provide document processing products and services in each of the markets we serve. We compete primarily on the basis of technology, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, distribution and customer service and support. Our future success is largely dependent upon our ability to compete in the markets we currently serve, to promptly and effectively react to changing technologies and customer expectations and to expand into additional market segments. To remain competitive, we must develop services, applications and new products; periodically enhance our existing offerings; remain cost efficient; and attract and retain key personnel and management. Our ability to remain competitive through developing new products and services and attracting and retaining key personnel may be adversely impacted by the global economic uncertainty caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. If we are unable to compete successfully, we could lose market share and important customers to our competitors and such loss could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our profitability is dependent upon our ability to obtain adequate pricing for our products and services and to improve our cost structure. Our success depends on our ability to obtain adequate pricing for our products and services that will provide a reasonable return to our shareholders. Depending on competitive market factors, including the negative impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic, future prices we obtain for our products and services may decline from current levels. In addition, pricing actions to offset the effect of currency devaluations may not prove sufficient to offset further devaluations or may not hold in the face of customer resistance and/or competition. If we are unable to obtain adequate pricing for our products and services, it could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We continually review our operations with a view towards reducing our cost structure, including reducing our employee base, exiting certain businesses, improving process and system efficiencies and outsourcing some internal functions. Personal protective measures, such as quarantines, restricted access to workplaces, product packaging requirements, and similar requirements put in place by countries, states, municipalities and businesses in response to the COVID-19 pandemic may change the way we interact with our customers and increase our costs of doing business. In addition, substantial supply chain disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic has increased the cost of materials and components required to manufacture our products, transportation of components and products, and labor associated with all steps of the supply chain. The extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our cost structure will depend on future developments, including the duration and severity of the pandemic and the extent and effectiveness of containment actions, which are uncertain and cannot be predicted. If we are unable to continue to maintain our cost base at or below the current level and maintain process and systems changes resulting from prior cost reduction actions, it could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to sustain and improve profit margins is dependent on a number of factors, including our ability to continue to improve the cost efficiency of our operations through such programs as Project Own It, the level of pricing pressures on our products and services, the additional costs imposed by ongoing supply chain disruptions, the proportion of high-end as opposed to entry-level equipment sales (product mix), the trend in our post-sale revenue growth and our ability to successfully complete information technology initiatives. If any of these factors adversely materialize or if we are unable to achieve and maintain productivity improvements through design efficiency, supplier and manufacturing cost improvements and information technology initiatives, our ability to offset labor cost inflation, potential materials cost increases and competitive price pressures would be impaired, all of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have outsourced a significant portion of our manufacturing operations and increasingly rely on third-party manufacturers, subcontractors and suppliers. We have outsourced a significant portion of our manufacturing operations to third parties, such as FUJIFILM Business Innovation Corp. (formerly Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd.) In the normal course of business, we regularly reevaluate our relationships with these third parties and have discussions with other third parties in order to maintain competitive tension and seek more optimal terms. There is no guarantee that such discussions will lead to better arrangements, and our existing suppliers could react negatively to any alternative arrangements we seek to negotiate with other third parties. In addition, we could incur significant costs in order to transition from one third-party manufacturing partner to another. Xerox 2021 Annual Report 16 Table of Contents We face the risk that our third-party manufacturing partners may not be able to develop or manufacture products satisfying all of our requirements, quickly respond to changes in customer demand, and obtain supplies and materials necessary for the manufacturing process. In addition, in the normal course of business and exacerbated by supply chain disruptions resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, our partners may experience labor shortages and/or disruptions, transportation cost increases, materials cost increases, and/or manufacturing cost increases that could lead to higher prices for our products and/or lower reliability of our products. Further, since certain third parties to whom we have outsourced manufacturing are also our competitors in the print market, or may become competitors in the future, we could experience product disruption as a result of competitive pressures that increase the cost of the products supplied. If any of these risks were to be realized, and similar third-party manufacturing relationships could not be established and/or successfully transitioned to, we could experience supply interruptions or increases in costs that might result in our being unable to meet customer demand for our products, damage our relationships with our customers and reduce our market share, all of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, in our services business we may partner with other parties, including software and hardware vendors, to provide the complex solutions required by our customers. Therefore, our ability to deliver the solutions and provide the services required by our customers is dependent on both our and our partners' ability to meet our customers' requirements and schedules. If we or our partners fail to deliver services or products as required and on time, our ability to complete the contract may be adversely affected, which may have an adverse impact on our revenue and profits. We may be unable to attract and retain key personnel while our business model undergoes significant changes. Xerox is undergoing significant changes in our business model and, accordingly, current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future, and may have other opportunities available to them given the current highly competitive labor market. Our success is dependent, among other things, on our ability to attract, develop and retain highly qualified senior management and other key employees. Competition for key personnel is intense, and our ability to attract and retain key personnel is dependent on a number of factors, including prevailing market conditions and compensation packages offered by companies competing for the same talent. Our ability to do so also depends on how well we maintain a strong corporate culture that is attractive to employees. Hiring and training of new employees may be adversely impacted by global economic uncertainty and changes to office environments caused by COVID-19. The departure of existing key employees or the failure of potential key employees to accept employment with Xerox, despite our recruiting efforts, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. We may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of our restructuring and transformation plans and our restructuring may adversely affect our business. We engage in restructuring actions, including Project Own It, as well as other transformation efforts in order to reduce our cost structure, realign it to the changing nature of our business and achieve operating efficiencies. In addition, these actions are expected to simplify our organizational structure, upgrade our IT infrastructure and redesign our business processes. We may not be able to obtain the cost savings and benefits that were initially anticipated in connection with our restructuring actions. Additionally, as a result of our restructuring initiatives, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge and/or inefficiency during transitional periods. Transformation and restructuring may require a significant amount of time and focus from both management and other employees, which may divert attention from operating and growing our business. The wide-ranging nature and number of actions underway at any point in time may become difficult for the organization to satisfactorily manage and implement, as these actions may have impacts across the organization, processes and systems that are not apparent by individual project but may have unintended consequences in the aggregate. Furthermore, the expected savings associated with these initiatives may be offset to some extent by business disruption during the implementation phase as well as investments in new processes and systems until such time as the initiatives are fully implemented and stabilized. If we fail to achieve some or all of the expected benefits of restructuring, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As part of our efforts to streamline operations and reduce costs, we have offshored and outsourced certain of our operations, services and other functions through captive arrangements as well as arrangements with third-parties (e.g., TCS and HCL) and we will continue to evaluate additional offshoring or outsourcing possibilities in the future. If our outsourcing partners or operations fail to perform their obligations in a timely manner or at satisfactory quality levels or if we are unable to attract or retain sufficient personnel with the necessary skill sets to meet our offshoring Xerox 2021 Annual Report 17 Table of Contents or outsourcing needs, the quality of our services, products and operations, as well as our reputation, could suffer. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to manage these potential transitions and issues, which in certain circumstances could be largely outside of our control. In addition, much of our offshoring takes place in developing countries and as a result may also be subject to geopolitical uncertainty. Diminished service quality from offshoring and outsourcing could have an adverse material impact to our operating results due to service interruptions and negative customer reactions. Our government contracts are subject to termination rights, audits and investigations, which, if exercised, could negatively impact our reputation and reduce our ability to compete for new contracts. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from contracts with U.S. federal, state and local governments and their agencies, as well as international governments and their agencies. Government entities typically finance projects through appropriated funds. While these projects are often planned and executed as multi-year projects, government entities usually reserve the right to change the scope of or terminate these projects for lack of approved funding and/or at their convenience. Changes in government or political developments, including budget deficits, shortfalls or uncertainties, government spending reductions (e.g., Congressional sequestration of funds under the Budget Control Act of 2011) or other debt or funding constraints, could result in lower governmental sales and in our projects being reduced in price or scope or terminated altogether, which also could limit our recovery of incurred costs, reimbursable expenses and profits on work completed prior to the termination. Additionally, government agencies routinely audit government contracts. If the government finds that we inappropriately charged costs to a contract, the costs will be non-reimbursable or, to the extent reimbursed, refunded to the government. If the government discovers improper or illegal activities or contractual non-compliance in the course of audits or investigations, we may be subject to various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from doing business with the government. Any resulting penalties or sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, the negative publicity that arises from findings in such audits or, investigations could have an adverse effect on our reputation and reduce our ability to compete for new contracts and could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our ability to fund our customer financing activities at economically competitive levels depends on our ability to borrow and the cost of borrowing in the credit markets. The long-term viability and profitability of our financing business is dependent, in part, on our ability to borrow and the cost of borrowing in the credit markets. This ability and cost, in turn, is dependent on i) our credit rating, which is currently non-investment grade according to credit rating agency assessments that are subject to periodic reviews and can change following a review, and ii) credit market volatility, which has increased as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. We primarily fund our financing business through a combination of cash generated from operations, cash on hand, capital market offerings, and sales and securitizations of finance receivables. In addition, our ability to continue to offer customer financing and be successful in the placement of equipment, software and IT services with customers seeking to finance those transactions, is largely dependent on our ability to obtain funding at a reasonable cost. If we are unable to continue to offer financing, it could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our significant debt could adversely affect our financial health and pose challenges for conducting our business. Our ability to provide customer financing is a significant competitive advantage. We have and will continue to have a significant amount of debt and other obligations, including that arising from our expanded FITTLE business scope, the majority of which continues to be in support our customer financing activities. Our substantial debt and other obligations could have important consequences. For example, it could (i) increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; (ii) limit our ability to obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate requirements; (iii) increase our vulnerability to interest rate fluctuations because a portion of our debt has variable interest rates; (iv) require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to service debt and other obligations, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows from operations for other purposes; (v) limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate; (vi) place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and (vii) become due and payable upon a change in control. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, these related risks could increase. Xerox 2021 Annual Report 18 Table of Contents We need to maintain adequate liquidity in order to meet our operating cash flow requirements, repay maturing debt and meet other financial obligations, such as payment of dividends to the extent declared by our Board of Directors. If we fail to comply with the covenants contained in our various borrowing agreements, it may adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. Our liquidity is a function of our cash on-hand and our ability to successfully generate cash flows from a combination of efficient operations and continuing operating improvements, access to capital markets and funding from third parties, which includes securitization of our finance receivables. We believe our liquidity (including operating and other cash flows that we expect to generate) will be sufficient to meet operating requirements as they occur; however, our ability to maintain sufficient liquidity going forward is subject to the general liquidity of and on-going changes in the credit markets as well as general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other market factors that are beyond our control. Our $1.8 billion credit facility (the Credit Facility) contains financial maintenance covenants, including maximum leverage (debt for borrowed money divided by consolidated EBITDA, as defined) and a minimum interest coverage ratio (consolidated EBITDA divided by consolidated interest expense, as defined). At December 31, 2021, we were in full compliance with the covenants and other provisions of the Credit Facility. Failure to comply with material provisions or covenants in the Credit Facility could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. The Credit Facility, which terminates in August 2022, contains various investment grade covenants at a time when the Company is not investment grade rated. The Company may seek to renegotiate or replace such facility, including reducing the size of such facility, or may determine not to replace such facility at all and may instead pursue other forms of liquidity. Any new credit agreement may result in higher borrowing costs and may contain non-investment grade covenants, such as those that would place greater restrictions on how the Company can run its businesses and/or limit the Company from taking certain actions that might otherwise be beneficial to the Company and/or its shareholders, customers, suppliers, partners and/or lenders. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by employee benefit-related funding requirements. We sponsor several defined benefit pension and retiree-health benefit plans throughout the world. We are required to make contributions to these plans to comply with minimum funding requirements imposed by laws governing these employee benefit plans. Although most of our major defined benefit plans have been amended to freeze current benefits and eliminate benefit accruals for future service, several plans remain unfunded (by design) or are under-funded. The projected benefit obligations for these benefit plans at December 31, 2021 exceeded the value of the assets of those plans by approximately $1.3 billion. The current underfunded status of these plans is a significant factor in determining the ongoing future contributions we will be required to make to these plans. Accordingly, we expect to have additional funding requirements in future years, and we may make additional, voluntary contributions to the plans. Depending on our cash position at the time, any such funding or contributions to our defined benefit plans could impact our operating flexibility and financial position, including adversely affecting our cash flow for the quarter in which such funding or contributions are made. Weak economic conditions, including the negative impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic, and related under-performance of asset markets could also lead to increases in our funding requirements. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted by conditions abroad, including local economic and political environments, fluctuating foreign currencies and shifting regulatory schemes. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from operations outside of the United States, and we manufacture or acquire many of our products and/or their components, outside the United States. The COVID-19 pandemic has negatively impacted the global economy, disrupted customer spending and global supply chains, and created significant volatility in foreign currency exchange rates. Our future revenues, costs and results of operations could be significantly affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates - particularly the Japanese yen, the euro and the British pound - as well as by a number of other factors, including changes in local economic and political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements, local tax regulations and other related legal matters. We use currency derivative contracts to hedge foreign currency-denominated assets, liabilities and anticipated transactions. This practice is intended to mitigate or reduce volatility in the results of our foreign operations, but does not completely eliminate it. We do not hedge the translation effect of international revenues and expenses that are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. If our future revenues, costs and results of operations are significantly affected by economic or political conditions abroad and we are unable to effectively hedge these risks, they could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Xerox 2021 Annual Report 19 Table of Contents Tariffs or other restrictions on foreign imports could negatively impact our financial performance. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted by a potential increase in the cost of our products as a result of new or incremental trade protection measures, such as increased import tariffs; import or export restrictions, including restrictions put in place as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic; and requirements under, or the revocation or material modification of, trade agreements. Changes in U.S. and international trade policy and resultant retaliatory countermeasures, including imposition of increased tariffs, quotas or duties by affected countries and trading partners are difficult to predict and may adversely affect our business. The U.S. government has and could in the future impose trade barriers including tariffs, quotas, duties or other restrictions on foreign imports. The implementation of a border tax, tariff or higher customs duties on our products manufactured abroad or components that we import into the U.S., or any potential corresponding actions by other countries in which we do business, could negatively impact our financial performance. We operate globally and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our results. We operate in the U.S. and globally and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our results. We monitor U.S. and non-U.S. tax law changes that may adversely impact our overall tax costs. From time to time, proposals have been made and/or legislation has been introduced to change tax rates, as well as related tax laws, regulations or interpretations thereof, by various jurisdictions, or to limit tax treaty benefits which, if enacted or implemented could materially increase our tax costs and/or our effective tax rate and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. The international tax environment continues to change as a result of both coordinated actions by governments and unilateral measures designed by individual countries, both intended to tackle concerns over base erosion and profit shifting and perceived international tax avoidance techniques. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) is issuing guidelines that are different, in some respects, than long-standing international tax principles. As countries unilaterally amend their tax laws to adopt certain parts of the OECD guidelines, this may increase tax uncertainty and may adversely impact our income taxes. Taxation at the country, state, provincial or municipal level also may be subject to review and potential override by regional, federal, national or other government authorities. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the United States Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities around the world. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these examinations will not have an adverse effect on our provision for income taxes and cash tax liability. General Risk Factors We are subject to breaches of our security systems, cyber-attacks and service interruptions, which could expose us to liability, litigation, regulatory action and damage our reputation. We have implemented security systems with the intent of maintaining and protecting our own, and our customers', clients' and suppliers' confidential information, including information related to identifiable individuals, against unauthorized access or disclosure. Despite such efforts, we may be subject to breaches of our security systems resulting in unauthorized access to our facilities or information systems and the information we are trying to protect. Moreover, the risk of such attacks includes attempted breaches not only of our systems, but also those of our customers, clients and suppliers. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized access are constantly changing, are becoming increasingly more sophisticated and often are not recognized until after an exploitation of information has occurred. Therefore, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement sufficient preventative measures. Threat actors regularly attempt and, from time to time, have been successful in breaching our security systems, to gain access to our information and infrastructure through various techniques, including phishing, ransomware and other targeted attacks. The Company has retained and, in the future, may retain third-party experts to assist with the containment of and response to security incidents and, in coordination with law enforcement, with the investigation of such incidents. The Company has incurred, and expects to continue to incur, costs, including to retain such third-party experts, in connection with such incidents. We may also find it necessary to make significant further investments to protect this information and our infrastructure. These investments, and costs we incur in connection with security incidents, could be material. While we do not believe cybersecurity incidents have resulted in any material impact on our business, operations or financial results or on our ability to service our customers or run our business, past and future incidents resulting in unauthorized access to our facilities or information systems, or those of our suppliers, or accidental loss or disclosure of proprietary or confidential information about us, our clients or our customers could result in, among other things, a total shutdown of our systems that would disrupt our ability to conduct business or pay vendors and Xerox 2021 Annual Report 20 Table of Contents employees. In addition, cybersecurity risks and data security incidents could lead to unfavorable publicity, governmental inquiry and oversight, litigation by affected parties and possible financial obligations for damages related to the theft or misuse of such information, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and cash flow. While social distancing measures restricting the ability of our employees to work at our offices are in place to combat the COVID-19 pandemic, it may exacerbate certain risks to our business, including an increased demand for information technology resources, increased risk of phishing and other cybersecurity attacks, and increased risk of unauthorized dissemination of sensitive personal information or proprietary or confidential information about us or our customers or other third-parties and we may be more susceptible to security breaches and other security incidents because we have less capability to implement, monitor and enforce our information security and data protection policies. We are subject to laws of the United States and foreign jurisdictions relating to individually identifiable information, and failure to comply with those laws could subject us to legal actions and negatively impact our operations. We receive, process, transmit and store information relating to identifiable individuals, both in our role as a technology provider and as an employer. As a result, we are subject to numerous United States (both federal and state) and foreign jurisdiction laws and regulations designed to protect individually identifiable information. These laws have been subject to frequent changes, and new legislation in this area may be enacted at any time. For example, the General Data Protection Regulation that came into force in the European Union in May 2018. Changes to existing laws, introduction of new laws in this area, or failure to comply with existing laws that are applicable to us may subject us to, among other things, additional costs or changes to our business practices, liability for monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity, restrictions on our ability to obtain and process information and allegations by our customers and clients that we have not performed our contractual obligations, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our profitability and cash flow. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted by legal and regulatory matters. We have various contingent liabilities that are not reflected on our balance sheet, including those arising as a result of being involved in a variety of claims, lawsuits, investigations and proceedings concerning: securities law; tax law; governmental entity contracting, servicing and procurement laws; intellectual property law; environmental law; employment law; the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA); and other laws and regulations, as discussed in Note 21 - Contingencies and Litigation in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Should developments in any of these matters cause a change in our determination as to an unfavorable outcome and result in the need to recognize a material accrual or materially increase an existing accrual, or should any of these matters result in a final adverse judgment or be settled for significant amounts above any existing accruals, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position in the period or periods in which such change in determination, judgment or settlement occurs. Due to the international scope of our operations, we are subject to a complex system of commercial and trade regulations around the world. Recent years have seen an increase in the development and enforcement of laws regarding trade compliance and anti-corruption, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws from other countries. Our numerous foreign subsidiaries, affiliates and joint venture partners are governed by laws, rules and business practices that differ from those of the U.S. The activities of these entities may not comply with U.S. laws or business practices or our Code of Business Conduct. Violations of these laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, could disrupt our business, and result in an adverse effect on our reputation, business and results of operations or financial condition. We cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. Concern over climate change, including global warming, has led to legislative and regulatory initiatives directed at limiting greenhouse gas emissions. For example, proposals that would impose mandatory requirements on greenhouse gas emissions continue to be considered by policy makers in the countries, states and territories in which we operate. Laws and/or regulatory actions to address concerns about climate change and greenhouse gas emissions could impact our business, including the availability of our products or the cost to obtain or sell those products. Xerox also recognizes transitional risks associated with changes in voluntary standards and customer preferences in connection with concerns about climate change. If Xerox is unable to offer products that are as energy efficient as our competitors, there is a risk of reduced demand for our products and reduced market share. Inability, or a perception of inability, to achieve progress toward our environmental goals could adversely impact our Xerox 2021 Annual Report 21 Table of Contents business or damage our reputation. And, like all organizations, we and our partners and suppliers also may be subject to physical risks associated with climate change, such as increased severity and frequency of extreme weather events and more frequent short-term business disruptions as a result of severe weather such as flooding and winter snow storms, which could impair our ability to effectively deliver products and services to our customers or to keep our operating costs aligned with expectations. If any of these risks were realized, we could experience interruptions in supply or increases in costs that might result in our being unable to meet customer demand for our products and services, damage our relationships with our customers and reduce our market share, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations and our products are subject to environmental regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business and sell our products. Various countries and jurisdictions have adopted, or are expected to adopt, restrictions on the types and amounts of chemicals that may be present in electronic equipment or other items that we use or sell. Ongoing research and review of chemicals used in our products could lead to further restriction of common chemicals in office equipment and supplies. In the European Union REACH Regulation (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals), a broad initiative that requires parties throughout the supply chain to register, assess and disclose information regarding many chemicals in their products. Depending on the types, applications, forms and uses of chemical substances in various products, REACH and similar regulatory programs in other jurisdictions could lead to restrictions and/or bans on certain chemical usage. In the United States, the Toxics Substances Control Act (TSCA) was revised in 2016. Xerox continues its efforts toward monitoring and evaluating the applicability of these and numerous other regulatory initiatives in an effort to develop compliance strategies. As these and similar initiatives and programs become regulatory requirements throughout the world and/or are adopted as public or private procurement requirements, we must comply. Failure to comply could result in the company being subject to liability potentially and face market access limitations that could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Other potentially relevant initiatives throughout the world include proposals for more extensive chemical registration requirements and/or possible bans on the use of certain chemicals, various efforts to limit energy use in products and other environmentally-related programs impacting products and operations, such as those associated with climate change accords, agreements and regulations. For example, the European Union's Energy-Related Products Directive (ERP) and has led to the adoption of implementing measures or "voluntary agreements" that require certain classes of products to achieve certain design and/or performance standards, in connection with energy use and potentially other environmental parameters and impacts. A number of our products are already required to comply with ERP requirements and further regulations are being developed by the EU authorities. The EU Circular Economy Action Plan CEAP) introduced legislative and non-legislative measures focusing on how products are designed, promoting circular economy processes, encouraging sustainable consumption, and ensuring waste is prevented. The implementation of the CEAP is expected to impact the materials used, including chemicals and plastics, in products that are placed in the EU market. Environmentally driven procurement requirements also voluntarily adopted by customers in the marketplace (e.g., U.S. EPA EnergyStar, EPEAT, and EU Green Public Procurement) are constantly evolving and becoming more stringent, presenting further market access challenges if our products fail to comply. Various countries and jurisdictions have adopted or are expected to adopt requirements clarifying manufacturer roles and responsibilities related to the recovery products that were placed on the market and remediation of by-products of the manufacturing process. For example, jurisdictions have adopted or are expected to adopt, programs that make producers of electrical goods, including computers and printers, responsible for certain labeling, collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of these recovered products. If we are unable to collect, recycle, treat and dispose of our products in a cost-effective manner and in accordance with applicable requirements, it could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Further, Xerox is party to, or otherwise involved in, proceedings in a limited number of locations brought by U.S. or state environmental agencies under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), known as "Superfund," or state laws. Xerox 2021 Annual Report 22 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None Item 2. Properties We own several manufacturing, engineering and research facilities and lease other facilities. Our principal manufacturing and engineering facilities are located in New York, California, Oklahoma, Oregon, Canada, the U.K., Ireland, and a leased site in the Netherlands. Our principal research facilities are located in California, New York, and Canada. Our Corporate Headquarters is a leased facility located in Norwalk, Connecticut. In 2021, we owned or leased numerous facilities globally, which house general offices, sales offices, service locations, data centers, call centers, warehouses and distribution centers. The size of our property portfolio at December 31, 2021 was approximately 12.9 million square feet, which was comprised of 349 leased facilities and 17 owned properties with 71 facilities (of which 50 are located on our Webster, New York campus). We occupied approximately 9.5 million square feet, 2.4 million square feet were surplus, and approximately 1.0 million square feet are sublet to third parties. It is our opinion that our properties have been well maintained, are in sound operating condition and contain all the necessary equipment and facilities to perform their functions. We believe that our current facilities are suitable and adequate for our current businesses. Refer to Note 11 - Lessee, in the Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding our leased assets. Item 3. Legal Proceedings Refer to the information set forth under Note 21 - Contingencies and Litigation in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. Xerox 2021 Annual Report 23 Table of Contents Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Corporate Information Stock Exchange Information Xerox Holdings Corporation's common stock (XRX) is listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. There is no established public trading market for Xerox Corporation's common stock, as all of the outstanding Xerox common stock is held solely by Xerox Holdings. Common Shareholders of Record As of December 31, 2021, Xerox Holdings Corporation had approximately 21,336 shareholders of record. Dividends For additional information regarding dividends, refer to