Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 4 - Segment and Geographic Area Reporting in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Revenues We have a broad and diverse base of customers by both geography and industry, ranging from small and mid-sized clients to printing production companies, governmental entities, educational institutions and Fortune 1000 corporations. Our business does not depend upon a single customer, or a few customers, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business spans four primary offering areas: Workplace Solutions, Production Solutions, Xerox Services and FITTLE. Workplace Solutions is made up of two strategic product groups, Entry and Mid-Range, much of which share common solutions, apps and ConnectKey software. Workplace Solutions revenues include the sale of products (captured primarily as equipment sales) as well as the supplies and associated technical service and financing of those products through FITTLE (captured as post sale revenue). Entry primarily comprises A4 desktop monochrome and color printers and multifunction printers (MFPs) ranging from small personal devices to office workgroup devices. We offer our ConnectKey system of digital workflow and applications across a large portion of these devices. Mid-Range are primarily A3 devices that have more features and can handle higher print volumes and larger paper sizes than entry devices. We are a leader in this area of the market and offer a wide range of MFPs, digital printing presses and light production devices, as well as solutions that deliver flexibility and advanced features. Xerox 2023 Annual Report 2 Table of Contents Production Solutions (High-End) are designed for customers in the graphic communications, in-plant and production print environments with high-volume printing requirements. Our broad portfolio of presses and solutions provides black-and white and full-color, on-demand printing of a wide range of applications. Our xerographic and ink jet presses provide high-speed, high-volume cut-sheet printing, ideal for publishing, and transactional printing, including variable data for personalized content and one-to-one marketing, to the highest quality of color and embellishment requirements. Our cut-sheet inkjet press enables new applications in true high-definition resolution with high fusion ink, AI Powered image quality and advanced productivity technologies. Our portfolio spans a variety of print speeds, image quality, feeding, finishing and media options. Production Solutions revenues include the sale of products (captured primarily in equipment sales) as well as, software, supplies and the associated technical service and financing of those products (captured as post sale revenue).FreeFlowis a portfolio of software offerings that brings intelligent workflow automation and integration to the processing of high-end print jobs, from file preparation to final production, helping customers of all sizes address a wide range of business opportunities including automation, personalization, and even electronic publishing. Xerox Services includes a continuum of solutions and services that help our customers optimize their print and communications infrastructure, apply automation and simplification to maximize productivity, and ensure the highest levels of security. Xerox has the capability to support integration and document security on a global scale, which are critical factors for large enterprises. Our primary offerings in this area are Xerox Managed Print Services (MPS), Xerox Capture & Content Services (CCS) and Xerox Customer Engagement Services (CES) as well as IT Services. CCS and CES encompass a range of Digital Services that leverage our software capabilities in Workflow Automation, Personalization and Communication Software, Content Management Solutions, and Digitization Services.The pandemic shifted our customers focus toward secure, efficient, and flexible solutions to operate in a hybrid work environment. As a result, we enhanced our focus on the development and promotion of offerings to help our customers accelerate their digital transformations. Managed Print Solutions (MPS) utilizes our portfolio of security, analytics, cloud, digitization, and ConnectKey technologies to help companies optimize their print infrastructure, secure their print environment, and automate related business processes. We provide the most comprehensive portfolio of MPS services in the industry and are recognized as an industry leader by major analyst firms including IDC and Quocirca. Our MPS offering targets clients ranging from global enterprises to governmental entities and small and mid-sized businesses, including those served via our channel partners. This portfolio includes a suite of services to help clients manage hybrid workforces, including cost effective and secure printing devices along with apps and software tools that enable work from anywhere, cloud server-enabled fleet management, security and automation software and remote customer support. XeroxWorkflow Central extends the document workflow solutions available through our ConnectKey technologies to all devices, including PCs and smartphones, for easier access to workflow solutions in hybrid workplace environments. Capture & Content Services (CCS) enables content digitization, management, workflow automation, and intelligent document processing and includes offerings such as Xerox Digital Mailroom, where we use scanning and capture technology combined with AI to extract printed and digital information into usable data that is routed into business workflows (such as accounts payable) or into archives, integrating with cloud-based content management systems such as our DocuShare software. Customer Engagement Services (CES) enable the integration of Xerox technology, software, and services to securely design and manage our clients personalization and customization of targeted communications. These services include Xerox Digital Hub and Cloud Printservices, a one-stop shop where customers can submit print jobs from anywhere and leverage our Web2Print portal with on and off-site printing networks to meet their printing or marketing collateral needs on demand. Our Customer Communications Management and Campaigns on Demand solutions, such as those provided through our acquisition of Go Inspire, help drive personalized and meaningful communications and touchpoints. IT Services provides small and mid-sized clients with cost efficient and secure solutions, including end user computing devices, network infrastructure, communications technology, and a range of managed IT solutions, such as technology product support, professional engineering, and commercial RPA. FITTLE is a global financing solutions business and currently offers lease financing for direct channel customer purchases of Xerox equipment and solutions through bundled lease agreements and lease financing to end-user customers who purchase Xerox equipment and solutions through our indirect channels. In addition to our four primary offering areas described above, a small portion of our revenues comes from non-core streams including paper sales in our developing market countries, and standalone software such as CareAR, DocuShare, and XMPie. Xerox 2023 Annual Report 3 Table of Contents Geographic Information Overall, approximately 45% of our revenue is generated by customers outside the U.S. Additional details can be found in Note 4 - Segment and Geographic Area Reporting in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Patents, Trademarks and Licenses In 2023, Xerox and its subsidiaries were awarded 300 U.S. utility and design patents. Our patent portfolio evolves as new patents are awarded to us and older patents expire. As of December 31, 2023, Xerox held 6,471 U.S. utility and design patents. These patents expire at various dates up to 20 years or more from their original filing dates. While we believe that our portfolio of patents and applications has value, in general no single patent is essential to our business. In addition, any of our proprietary rights could be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, or may not provide significant competitive advantages. In 2023, we were party to multiple patent-related agreements in which we licensed or assigned our patents to others in return for revenue and/or access to their patents or to further our business goals. Most patent licenses expire concurrently with the expiration of the last patent identified in the license or after a specified term of years. We were also party to a number of cross-licensing agreements with companies that also hold substantial patent portfolios. These agreements vary in subject matter, scope, compensation, significance, and duration. In the U.S., we own 155 trademarks, either registered or applied for. Outside of the U.S., we own 3,740 trademarks, either registered or applied for. These trademarks have a perpetual life, subject to periodic renewal requirements. We vigorously enforce and protect our trademarks. Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) At our core, is a deep and long-lasting commitment to ESG, a pledge to inspire and support our people, conduct business ethically across the value chain and preserve our planet. This commitment stems from our corporate values established over sixty years ago, which include: succeeding through satisfied clients; delivering quality and excellence in all we do; requiring a premium return on assets; using technology to develop market leadership; valuing and empowering our employees; and behaving responsibly as a corporate citizen. We continue this legacy by creating products and services that help our customers be more productive, profitable, and sustainable. We deliver solutions that drive customer success and enable a new, better world. We do this in our own operations, as well as in workplaces, communities, and cities around the world. We recognize the worlds challenges such as climate change and human rights and understand the role we play. Our pledge to inspire and support our people, conduct business ethically, and protect our planet remains at the core of everything we do. At Xerox, we believe in continuously improving, and we apply this mentality to ensuring we are finding ways to improve the sustainability of our operations. From our earliest days as a company, Xerox has demonstrated a steadfast commitment to corporate social responsibility. Our greatest goal is to facilitate employee-driven philanthropy, with a focus on strengthening our communities, sustainability, diversity, inclusion and belonging, education, and disaster relief. Together, Xerox and our employees are creating real impact and sustainable change for the greater good. In 2023, Xerox employees volunteered for approximately 42,300 hours, an increase of nearly 75% as compared to 2022, and donated approximately $1.1 million, which includes the amount matched by Xerox. TheXerox 2023 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report describes our management approach related to ESG. Our work aligns with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which provide a framework to end poverty, protect the planet and improve the lives and prospects of everyone, everywhere. To ensure we are responsive to all stakeholders, Xerox has also been reporting in accordance with the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and the Task Force on Climate Change Related Disclosures (TCFD). (The 2023 CSR Report, SASB report, and TCFD report are accessible at www.xerox.com/CSR. The content of our website is not incorporated by reference in this combined Form 10-K unless expressly noted.) Environment With climate change being one of the defining issues of our time, we fast-tracked our net zero goal by 10 years to 2040 and integrated climate change-related risks and opportunities into our Enterprise Risk Management. We share our roadmap to reach net zero in our 2023 CSR Report. Our roadmap covers our full value chain and focuses on improving processes and energy efficiency as well as designing environmentally responsible products. Our interim goal is to reduce our Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions at least 60% by 2030, against the Companys 2016 baseline. Xerox's Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions decreased approximately 6.9% in 2022 (the latest year we reported GHG emissions in our CSR report), bringing our total reduction to approximately 46% from our 2016 Xerox 2023 Annual Report 4 Table of Contents baseline. This is in line with the ambitious science-based global warming target, validated and approved by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). Our GHG emissions are third-party assured in accordance with the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14064-3:2019 and are updated in our progress summary as new data becomes available. In 2023, Xerox was named to CDPs Annual "A List for climate change transparency and performance. CDP is a nonprofit organization that runs the global disclosure system for investors, companies, and regions to manage their environmental impacts. Circular economy initiatives remain a part of our business strategy. We have developed several collection and waste reduction programs, while also designing technology to align with the circular economys key elements. Based on data from 2022 (the latest full year data is available), approximately 93% of spent toner cartridges and other consumables, returned through Green World Alliance (Xerox's customer recycling program), are recycled, reused or remanufactured. We continue to make progress towards increasing the post-consumer recycled content in our eco-label eligible devices. Human Capital Our Employees As of December 31, 2023, we had approximately 20,100 employees; a reduction of approximately 400 employees, or 2.0%, since December 31, 2022. The reduction in headcount resulted from net attrition (attrition net of gross hires) and restructuring. On a geographic basis, approximately 10,200 employees were located in the U.S. and approximately 9,900 employees were located outside the U.S. We had approximately 10,400 employees or approximately 50% of our employees engaged in providing services to customers (direct service and managed services) and approximately 2,400 employees engaged in direct sales. Approximately 20% of our employees are represented by unions or similar organizations, such as workers councils with approximately 87% located outside the U.S. As of December 31, 2023, approximately 25% of our employees were women and approximately 30% of our U.S. employees self-identified as diverse. As a result of Xeroxs Reinvention and the implementation of our new operating model, in January 2024 the Company announced a 15 percent targeted workforce reduction. The actions to be taken are expected to be across all levels and areas of the organization. Proposed reductions will be subject to formal consultation with local works councils and employee representative bodies, where applicable, and we will fully comply with all required notifications, including U.S. state WARN laws, at the appropriate time. The decision to reduce our workforce was a difficult but necessary step toward establishing the long-term viability for the Company, and we are committed to providing transition support for affected employees. Refer to the Recent Changes and Developments section above for additional information regarding Reinvention. Employee Safety At Xerox, we are committed to maintaining a safe workplace environment for our people. We have an incident reporting process, workplace safety inspections and hazard analysis that allows improvements in areas where we can reduce or prevent incidents. Several methods are also used to raise employee safety awareness including site-specific hazard management, off-the-job safety information and communications regarding safety concerns. In 2023, we created and launched a safety training module to raise safety awareness globally, which was completed by approximately 99% of employees. During 2023 the total number Day Away from Work Injury cases, which relies on employees to self-report, was 102 cases, as compared to 77 cases in 2022. Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging Our commitment to diversity began more than half a century ago with our first CEO, Joseph Wilson. His call for social responsibility, diversity and inclusiveness is a Xerox core value and part of our company DNA. Joseph Wilsons vision is still reflected today in our diversity, inclusion and belonging (DIB) roadmap through the development and execution of ESG targets. In 2023, we continued to make progress to our commitment to DIB by focusing on the areas where we can make the most significant impact. Advancing our DIB roadmap enables us to have an inclusive approach that addresses client needs, create diverse work teams, facilitate diversity of thought, increase our talent pool, and foster accountability that supports our progress against our ESG metrics. In 2021, we outlined a 5-year DIB roadmap comprising approximately 140 initiatives. Through 2023, we have progressed or completed approximately 70% of those initiatives. Xerox 2023 Annual Report 5 Table of Contents Engagement and Talent Development Xerox is committed to continuously revitalizing our employee experience and is focused on listening to the organization and taking distinct action based on feedback. Beginning in 2022 and continuing into 2023, approximately 45% of Xerox employees were invited to participate in a variety of feedback processes, from digital focus groups to engagement and inclusion surveys, to ensure that we understand the sentiments of our employees. The main areas of focus for Xerox based on employee feedback included areas such as employee well-being, leadership and belonging, and flexibility and remote work. This initiative included a review of our total rewards package, how we support the development of our employees and our people leaders, and identifying how we leverage both our physical and virtual working environments to ensure maximum collaboration across the enterprise. Our employee communications system is multi-channeled, including town halls, digital campaigns, and pod casts, to keep our employees linked to Xeroxs vision, mission, and values. We evaluate our leaders against leadership attributes aligned to our corporate strategy. We support a structured semi-annual performance management evaluation process, which enables focused goal setting, clarification of employee and career development needs, and performance evaluation. In addition, Xerox sponsors numerous corporate development initiatives for targeted populations (i.e., high potentials, women in leadership, senior leaders identified for future executive roles, etc.), and corporate processes such as succession planning to ensure that we have a clear leadership pipeline for critical organizational roles. Total Rewards Our success depends on attracting, retaining, and motivating a highly productive, global workforce. To achieve this, we take pride in offering our employees a comprehensive Total Rewards program that includes various compensation, benefits, and work-life programs. Our programs are designed to achieve the following objectives: Drive shareholder value: support our business strategy and culture. Align with performance: incentivize the right behaviors when the Company wins, our employees win. Support our talent strategy: attract, retain, and motivate a productive workforce. As with most global companies, our compensation and benefits vary based on employee eligibility, and local practices and regulations. We benchmark our programs to ensure we remain competitive with our peers and the markets we serve, and to maintain alignment with our short-term and long-term business goals. Our compensation offerings include base pay, and short-term and long-term incentive programs. Our short-term programs include: a management incentive plan (MIP), designed to drive Xeroxs annual pay for performance culture and incentivize our leaders to help Xerox achieve sustainable growth and profitability; and a sales compensation program that tightly aligns our sales force with business goals. A Long-Term Incentive (LTI) equity-based program reinforces alignment of our leaders and key talent with shareholders. In 2023, approximately 35% of Xerox's employees were eligible to participate in our LTI program. Our benefit offerings provide our employees with choice and flexibility to help them reach their health and financial goals. Our offerings include the following core programs: health, wellness, retirement, paid time off, life and disability insurance, and access to voluntary benefits. Employee Training All employees are required to complete annual training in ethics, privacy, DIB, and security. Certain employees are required to complete additional specialized training pertaining to their role within the organization. Additionally, numerous training programs are available for employees to take on their own initiative. We adopt a blended technology-led learning model to drive the Xerox business and talent strategies. The Xerox workforce has access to learning in various modalities that support professional development and build capabilities across the Company, on time, and in a cost-effective manner. Our Learning and Development (L&D) function is focused on business agility and driving digital transformation across our workforce. Our employees have access to a global learning platform that includes an extensive portfolio of online courses, virtual classroom events, simulations, job aids, and other learning and development resources. As our business evolves, we continue to leverage technology to identify new skills and capabilities required to ensure we remain competitive in the global market. Our L&D function partners with Xerox business leaders to design capability-building programs and Xerox's senior leadership champions a long-term vision to continually develop the skills of our employees. During 2023, approximately 95% of Xerox employees completed at least one or more formal learning offering, which includes both required and voluntary training. Using Xeroxs global learning platform, Xerox employees completed approximately 257,000 courses, over approximately 203,000 hours. Xerox 2023 Annual Report 6 Table of Contents Material Government Regulations Our business activities are worldwide and are subject to various federal, state, local, and foreign laws and our products and services are governed by a number of rules and regulations. Currently, costs incurred to comply with these governmental regulations are not material to our capital expenditures, results of operations and competitive position. Although there is no assurance that existing or future government laws and regulations applicable to our operations, services or products will not have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, results of operations and competitive position, we do not currently anticipate material expenditures for government regulations. However, as a result of increased government focus in the U.S. and globally, we believe that environmental and global trade regulations could potentially materially impact our business in the future. For a discussion of the risks associated with government regulations that may materially impact us, please see Risk Factors included in Item 1A of this combined Form 10-K. Marketing and Distribution We go to market with a client-centric, market-informed, and services-led approach, selling workplace products and services that support the new hybrid workplace and distributed workforce. We service our clients through our direct sales force or indirectly through distributors, independent agents, dealers, value-added resellers, systems integrators, and e-commerce marketplaces. In addition, we continue to focus on broadening our footprint to sell offerings to the small and mid-sized markets primarily in the U.S., U.K., and Canada through Xerox Business Solutions (XBS) which is comprised of regional core companies that provide office technology and services, including Managed IT Services, to small and mid-sized markets clients, and through the acquisitions of dealers and IT Services providers internationally. We are structured to serve our clients globally through our business-unit led operating model and organizational structure which covers direct and indirect routes to market in the Americas (comprised of the U.S. and Canada along with Mexico, Brazil, Central and South America) and EMEA (comprised of Europe, the Middle East, Africa and India). We have an industry leading and common global delivery model that provides a consistent client experience worldwide. We believe that this structure creates a leaner and more effective go-to-market model that streamlines our supply chain and provides our client with best-in-class services. Competition Although we encounter competition in all areas of our business, we are the leader - or among the leaders - in our core mid-range and high-end product groups. We compete on the basis of technology, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand reputation, distribution, service and support. The larger competitors in our print business include Canon, FUJIFILM Business Innovations Corp., HP Inc., Konica Minolta, and Ricoh. Our brand recognition, reputation for document management expertise, innovative technology and service delivery excellence are our competitive advantages. These advantages, combined with our breadth of product offerings, global distribution channels and client relationships, position us as a strong competitor going forward. As we continue our strategy to diversify and grow other businesses, there may be additional non-print competitors. With respect to our financing business, our main competitors vary considerably from equipment manufacturers with a captive leasing group to third-party independent leasing entities and financial institutions. We generally compete based on relationships with customers, dealers and partners and by offering a better integrated service experience. Customer Financing (FITTLE) We finance a large portion of our direct channel customer purchases of Xerox equipment through bundled lease agreements. We also provide lease financing to end-user customers who purchase Xerox equipment and solutions through our indirect channels. We compete with other third-party leasing companies and financial institutions with respect to the lease financing provided to these end-user customers. In both instances, financing facilitates customer acquisition of Xerox technology and enhances our value proposition, while providing Xerox a reasonable return on our investment in this business. Because our lease contracts allow customers to pay for equipment over time rather than upfront upon installation, we maintain a certain level of debt to support our investment in these lease contracts. We fund our customer financing activity through a combination of cash generated from operations, cash on hand and proceeds from capital market offerings as well as secured borrowing arrangements and sales of receivables. At December 31, 2023, we had approximately $2.5 billion of finance receivables and $265 million of Equipment on operating leases, net, or Total Finance assets of approximately $2.8 billion. We maintain an assumed 7:1 leverage ratio of debt to equity as Xerox 2023 Annual Report 7 Table of Contents compared to our Finance assets, which results in approximately $2.4 billion of our $3.3 billion of debt being allocated to our financing business. In December 2022, the Company entered into a finance receivables funding agreement with an affiliate of HPS Investment Partners (HPS) pursuant to which the Company agreed to offer for sale, and HPS agreed to purchase, certain eligible pools of finance receivables on a monthly basis in transactions structured as "true sales at law" and bankruptcy remote transfers. Accordingly, the receivables sold were derecognized from our financial statements and HPS does not have recourse back to the Company for uncollectible receivables. During the second quarter 2023, the finance receivables funding agreement with HPS was amended to expand the pools of finance receivables eligible for sale to include the sale of the underlying leased equipment to HPS. The effect of these transactions has accordingly reduced financing debt as funding for certain new finance receivable originations is through the direct sale to HPS. Refer to "Debt and Customer Financing Activities" and "Finance Assets and Related Debt" in the Capital Resources and Liquidity section of Management's Discussion and Analysis, included in Item 7 of this combined Form 10-K, for additional information. Manufacturing and Supply Our manufacturing and distribution facilities are located around the world. Our largest manufacturing site is in Webster, N.Y., where we produce the Xerox iGen, Xerox Nuvera, and Xerox Baltoro production printing presses as well as key components and consumables for our products, such as toner. We have manufacturing operations for materials and components in Dundalk, Ireland; Wilsonville, OR; Venray, Netherlands; Ontario, Canada; and Oklahoma City, OK. We conduct sustainable manufacturing in all of these facilities. In addition, we work with various manufacturing and distribution partners. This diversification of suppliers brings flexibility and cost efficiency to our manufacturing and supply chain, a critical component in our strategic initiative to optimize operations for simplicity. FUJIFILM Business Innovation Corp. (formerly Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd.) is our largest partner with whom we maintain product sourcing agreements for specific products primarily across our mid-range and high-end portfolios. We also acquire products from various third parties to increase the breadth of our product portfolio and meet channel requirements. In addition, we outsource certain specialized manufacturing activities to partners, such as Flex Ltd. and Jabil Inc., which are global contract manufacturers with whom we have long-standing relationships. Our supply chain operations utilize a network of world-class logistics partners who offer warehousing and transportation services. Reverse Logistics is an integral part of our sustainability mission, and in the U.S. we perform these operations at our facility in Cincinnati, OH, and globally with a network of various partners. FUJIFILM Business Innovation Corp. continues to be one of our strategic suppliers, and in 2023 we renewed our multi-year contract with them. This agreement secures our ongoing access to the latest advancements in print engine technology and related supplies, reinforcing Xeroxs commitment to delivering differentiated solutions to our clients and partners. Refer to the Capital Resources and Liquidity section of Management's Discussion and Analysis, included in Item 7 of this combined Form 10-K for additional information regarding our relationship with FUJIFILM Business Innovation Corp. International Operations The financial measures, by geographical area for 2023, 2022 and 2021, are included in Note 4 - Segment and Geographic Area Reporting in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. See also the risk factor entitled The international nature of our business subjects us to a number of risks, including foreign exchange and interest rate risk and unfavorable political, regulatory, and tax conditions in foreign countries. in Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors of this combined report on Form 10-K. Seasonality Our revenues may be affected by such factors as the introduction of new products, the length of sales cycles and the seasonality of technology purchases and printing volume. These factors have historically resulted in lower revenues, operating profits, and operating cash flows in the first and third quarters. Xerox 2023 Annual Report 8 Table of Contents Other Information Xerox Holdings Corporation Xerox Holdings is a New York corporation, organized in 2019 and our principal executive offices are located at 201 Merritt 7, P.O. Box 4505, Norwalk, Connecticut 06851-1056. Our telephone number is 203-849-5216. Xerox Corporation Xerox is a New York corporation, organized in 1906 and our principal executive offices are located at 201 Merritt 7, P.O. Box 4505, Norwalk, Connecticut 06851-1056. Our telephone number is 203-849-5216. Within the Investor Relations section of Xerox Holdings' website, you will find our combined Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports. We make these documents available timely after we have filed them with, or furnished them to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The SEC's Internet address is www.sec.gov. Our Internet address is www.xerox.com. The content of our website is not incorporated by reference in this combined Form 10-K unless expressly noted. 2022 Xerox Corporation. All rights reserved. Xerox, ConnectKey, FreeFlow, Gen3, Xerox Nuvera, Baltoro and any other trademarks that are used here are trademarks of Xerox Corporation in the United States and/or other countries. Xerox 2023 Annual Report 9 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors as well as the other information included, and risks described, in other sections of this combined Form 10-K, including under the headings Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements, Legal Proceedings, and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes thereto. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. The selected risks described below, however, are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently view to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Company-Specific Risk Factors Our business, results of operations, cash flow, and financial condition are affected by global macroeconomic conditions. Global macroeconomic developments, including conflicts throughout the world, may adversely affect our business and financial results. Our business and financial performance depend on worldwide economic conditions, which affect the demand for our products and services in the markets we serve as well as the cost and availability of inputs to our business. Prolonged or more severe economic weakness and uncertainty, including economic slowdowns or recessions, global market volatility, rising inflation and interest rates, employment, and other adverse economic conditions, may result in decreased demand for our products and services, logistical and supply-related challenges, and increased difficulty with financial forecasting. Moreover, the global macroeconomy has a significant impact on interest rates, borrowing costs, and availability and cost of capital, all of which could have an adverse impact on our business. In addition, inflation may adversely affect customers financing costs, cash flows, and profitability, which could adversely impact their operations and our ability to collect receivables. Rising interest rates could have a dampening effect on overall economic activity and/or the financial condition of our customers, either or both of which could negatively affect customer demand for our products and our customers ability to repay obligations to us. These conditions may result in reduced consumer and business confidence and spending in many countries, a tightening in the credit markets, a reduced level of liquidity in many financial markets, high volatility in credit, fixed income and equity markets, currency exchange rate fluctuations, and global economic uncertainty. In addition, longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business. If financial institutions that have extended credit commitments to us are adversely affected by the conditions of the U.S. and international capital markets, they may become unable to fund borrowings under their credit commitments to us, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and our ability to borrow additional funds, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development and other corporate purposes. The global supply chain has experienced and may continue to experience pronounced disruptions impacting service providers, logistics, and the flow, cost, and availability of supplies and products. Our business depends on its timely supply of equipment, services, and related products to meet the technical and volume requirements of our customers. Shortages of parts, materials, and services needed to manufacture and service our products, as well as delays and unpredictability of shipments due to transportation interruptions, have adversely impacted, and may continue to adversely impact, our suppliers ability to meet our requirements, and in turn our ability to meet our customers needs. Moreover, supply chain constraints may continue to increase costs of logistics and parts for our products, which costs we may not be able to pass on to our customers. We may experience further disruptions to our manufacturing operations, supply chain, and/or distribution channels in the future, and these disruptions may be prolonged. We are subject to foreign currency exchange and interest rate volatility in our business. Our future revenues, costs and results of operations could be significantly affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates - particularly the euro, the British pound, and the Japanese yen. We use currency derivative contracts to hedge foreign currency-denominated assets, liabilities, and anticipated transactions. This practice is intended to mitigate or reduce volatility in the results of our foreign operations but does not completely eliminate such volatility. We do not hedge the translation effect of international revenues and expenses that are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Although the use of hedging transactions limits our downside risk, their use may also limit future revenues. Xerox 2023 Annual Report 10 Table of Contents If we fail to successfully develop new and existing products, technologies, and service offerings, we may be unable to retain current customers and gain new customers and our revenues would decline. We operate in an environment of significant competition, driven by rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards, and demands of customers to become more efficient. Our primary competitors are exerting increased competitive pressure in targeted areas and are entering new markets, and our emerging competitors are introducing new technologies and business models. Our competitors include large international companies, some of which have significant financial resources and compete with us globally to provide document processing products and services in each of the markets we serve. We compete primarily on the basis of technology, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, distribution, and customer service and support. Our future success is largely dependent upon our ability to compete in the markets we currently serve, to promptly and effectively react to changing technologies and customer expectations, and to expand into additional market segments. To remain competitive, we must develop or acquire new services, applications and products and periodically enhance our existing offerings. If we are unable to compete successfully through existing new sales channels, including new partnerships, we could lose market share and important customers to our competitors, and such loss could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The process of developing new high-technology products, software, services, and solutions and enhancing existing hardware and software products, services, and solutions is complex, costly, and uncertain, and any failure by us to accurately anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends could significantly harm our market share, results of operations, and financial condition. These changing market trends are also opening up new, adjacent, and ancillary markets for our products, services, and software, which requires us to accurately anticipate our customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends. Our business model requires us to commit resources before knowing whether our initiatives will result in products that are commercially successful and generate the revenues required to provide desired returns. In addition, our sales strategy requires us to simplify our coverage model and expand into adjacent markets with new products, services, and technology such as Intelligent Document Processing, managed IT Services, and other workplace productivity solutions. Our ability to develop or acquire new products, services, and technologies for these adjacent markets through new or existing partners may require the investment of significant resources but may not lead to the successful development of new technologies, products, or services. Our digital services strategy involves developing and deploying essential products and services that address the productivity challenges of a hybrid workplace and distributed workforce. We also expect to extend our IT and digital services presence in the mid- market through organic and inorganic investments. Our future success depends on our ability to make the investments and commit the necessary resources to execute on our business strategy in this highly competitive market. Despite this investment, the process of developing new products, services, and technologies is inherently complex and uncertain, and there are a number of risks to which we are subject, including the risk that our products, services, or technologies will not successfully satisfy our customers needs, conform to evolving preferences or technologies, or gain market acceptance, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. As part of our Reinvention, we also implemented a new business-unit led organizational structure to closely align our product development and sales teams with the economic buyers of our products. Our business and financial performance could suffer if we do not manage the risks associated with our services businesses properly. The success of our services business (such as our managed print services, digital services, and other workforce and IT Services solutions) depends to a significant degree on attracting, retaining, and maintaining or increasing the level of revenues from our customers. Our standard services agreements are generally renewable at a customers option and/or subject to cancellation rights, with or without penalties for early termination. We may not be able to retain or renew services contracts with our customers, or our customers may reduce the scope of the services they contract for. Factors that may influence contract termination, non-renewal, or reduction include business downturns, dissatisfaction with our services or products, our retirement or lack of support for our products and services, our customers selecting alternative technologies, and the cost of our services as compared to our competitors. We may not be able to replace the revenue and earnings from lost customers or reductions in services. Although our services agreements may include penalties for early termination, these penalties may not fully cover our investments in these businesses. In addition, the pricing and other terms of certain services agreements require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts that could differ from actual results. Any increased or Xerox 2023 Annual Report 11 Table of Contents unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of these contracts, which may increase as services become more customized, could make these agreements less profitable or unprofitable. As a result, we may not generate the revenues, profits or cash flows we may have anticipated from our services business within the expected timelines, if at all. Our profitability is dependent upon our ability to obtain adequate pricing for our products and services and to improve our cost structure. Our success depends on our ability to obtain adequate pricing for our products and services that will provide a reasonable return to our shareholders. Changes in the market, including inflation, interest rates, foreign currency exchange movements, and global supply chain disruptions, may exert pressure on the margins we obtain for our products and services. Cost-reduction and pricing actions we undertake may not prove sufficient to offset the adverse impacts of such market conditions. Our ability to sustain and improve profit margins is dependent on a number of factors, including geography mix, our ability to continue to improve the cost efficiency of our operations, our ability to sustain pricing increases across our portfolio of products and services in a competitive and inflationary environment, our success in diversifying our suite of products and services, the additional costs imposed by supply chain disruptions, the proportion of high-end, mid and entry-level equipment sales, and IT services equipment (product and services mix), the trend in our post-sale revenue growth and our ability to successfully complete information technology initiatives. If any of these factors adversely materialize or if we are unable to achieve and maintain productivity or efficiency improvements, our ability to offset labor cost inflation, potential materials cost increases and competitive price pressures would be impaired, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We continually review our operations with a view towards reducing our cost structure, including reducing our employee base, exiting certain businesses and/or geographies, seeking more favorable terms in our current and future supply contracts, improving process and system efficiencies, and outsourcing some internal functions. In addition, supply chain disruptions and interest rate increases have increased the cost of materials and components required to manufacture our products, transportation of components and products, and labor associated with all steps of the supply chain. If we are unable to control the cost of and obtain adequate pricing for our products and services or if our cost-cutting efforts negatively impact our business, it could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have outsourced a significant portion of our manufacturing operations and increasingly rely on third-party manufacturers, subcontractors, and suppliers. We have outsourced a significant portion of our manufacturing operations to third parties, such as FUJIFILM Business Innovation Corp. (formerly Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd.) In the normal course of business, we regularly reevaluate our relationships with these third parties and have discussions with other third parties in order to maintain competitive tension and seek more optimal terms. There is no guarantee that such discussions will lead to better arrangements, and our existing suppliers could react negatively to any alternative arrangements we seek to negotiate with other third parties. In addition, we could incur significant costs in order to transition from one third-party manufacturing partner to another. We face the risk that our third-party manufacturing partners may not be able to develop or manufacture products satisfying all of our requirements, quickly respond to changes in customer demand, and obtain supplies and materials necessary for the manufacturing process. In addition, in the normal course of business and exacerbated by supply chain disruptions, our partners may experience labor shortages and/or disruptions, transportation cost increases, materials cost increases, and/or manufacturing cost increases that could lead to higher prices for our products and/or lower reliability of our products. Further, since certain third parties to whom we have outsourced manufacturing are also our competitors in the print market, or may become competitors in the future, we could experience product disruption as a result of competitive pressures that increase the cost of the products supplied. If any of these risks were to be realized, and similar third-party manufacturing relationships could not be established and/or successfully transitioned to, we could experience supply interruptions or increases in costs that might result in our being unable to meet customer demand for our products, damage our relationships with our customers and reduce our market share, all of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, in our services business, we may partner with other parties, including software and hardware vendors, to provide the complex solutions required by our customers. Therefore, our ability to deliver the solutions and Xerox 2023 Annual Report 12 Table of Contents provide the services required by our customers is dependent on both our and our partners' ability to meet our customers' requirements and schedules. If we or our partners fail to deliver services or products as required and on time, our ability to complete the contract may be adversely affected, which may have an adverse impact on our revenue and profits. We may be unable to attract and retain key personnel while our business model undergoes significant changes. Xerox is undergoing significant changes in our business model and, accordingly, current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future and may have other opportunities available to them given the competitive labor market. That uncertainty was further increased by Xerox's recently announced a 15 percent targeted workforce reduction. Our success is dependent, among other things, on our ability to attract, develop and retain highly qualified senior management and other key employees. Competition for key personnel is intense, and our ability to attract and retain key personnel is dependent on a number of factors, including prevailing market conditions and compensation packages offered by companies competing for the same talent. Our ability to do so also depends on how well we maintain a strong corporate culture and corporate brand that is attractive to employees. Hiring and training of new employees has been adversely impacted by global economic uncertainty, the tight labor market caused by low unemployment, and changes to office environments and workplace trends precipitated by COVID-19. The departure of existing key employees or the failure of potential key employees to accept employment with Xerox, despite our recruiting efforts, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and operating results. We may not achieve the expected benefits of our restructuring and transformation plans, including Reinvention, and may adversely affect our business. We engage in restructuring actions, as well as other transformation efforts, in order to reduce our cost structure, manage cash flow, achieve operating efficiencies, and align our business to fit with our operating plan. In addition, these actions are expected to simplify our organizational structure, upgrade our IT infrastructure and redesign our business processes. As a result of our restructuring initiatives, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge and/or inefficiency during transitional periods. Transformation and restructuring may require a significant amount of time and focus from both management and other employees, which may divert attention from operating and growing our business. The wide-ranging nature and number of actions underway at any point in time may become difficult for the organization to satisfactorily manage and implement, as these actions may have impacts across the organization, processes and systems that are not apparent by individual project but may have unintended consequences in the aggregate. Furthermore, the expected savings associated with these initiatives may be offset to some extent by business disruption during the implementation phase as well as investments in new processes and systems until such time as the initiatives are fully implemented and stabilized. If we fail to achieve some or all of the expected benefits of our restructuring and transformation plans, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our Reinvention entails the implementation of a new business-unit led operating model and the central coordination of internal processes through a new Global Business Services organization. As part of our efforts to streamline operations and reduce costs, we have offshored and outsourced certain of our operations, services and other functions through arrangements with third parties (e.g., TCS and HCL) and we will continue to evaluate additional offshoring or outsourcing possibilities in the future. If our outsourcing partners fail to perform their obligations in a timely manner or at satisfactory quality levels or if we are unable to attract or retain sufficient personnel with the necessary skill sets to meet our offshoring or outsourcing needs, the quality of our services, products, and operations, as well as our reputation, could suffer. In addition, much of our offshoring takes place in developing countries and as a result may also be subject to geopolitical uncertainty. Diminished service quality from offshoring and outsourcing could have an adverse material impact to our operating results due to service interruptions and negative customer reactions. Our government contracts are subject to termination rights, audits, and investigations, which, if exercised, could negatively impact our reputation and reduce our ability to compete for new contracts. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from contracts with U.S. federal, state and local governments and their agencies, as well as international governments and their agencies. Government entities typically finance projects through appropriated funds. While these projects are often planned and executed as multi-year projects, government entities usually reserve the right to change the scope of or terminate these projects for lack of approved funding and/or at their convenience. Changes in government or political developments, including budget deficits, Xerox 2023 Annual Report 13 Table of Contents shortfalls or uncertainties, government spending reductions (e.g., Congressional sequestration of funds under the Budget Control Act of 2011), government shutdowns, or other debt or funding constraints, could result in lower governmental sales and in our projects being reduced in price or scope or terminated altogether, which also could limit our recovery of incurred costs, reimbursable expenses and profits on work completed prior to the termination. Additionally, government agencies routinely audit government contracts. If the government finds that we charged them inappropriate pricing, we could be required to refund or reimburse the government, and there is the possibility of paying fines and penalties. If the government discovers improper or illegal activities or contractual non-compliance in the course of audits or investigations, we may be subject to various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from doing business with the government. Any resulting penalties or sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, the negative publicity that arises from findings in such audits or investigations could have an adverse effect on our reputation and reduce our ability to compete for new contracts and could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Additionally, our business with the U.S. government, direct or indirect, is subject to specific laws and regulations with numerous and unique compliance requirements relating to formation, administration and performance of U.S. federal or federally funded contracts. These requirements, which may increase or change over time, may increase our performance and compliance costs thereby reducing our margins, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Violations or other failures to comply with these laws, regulations or other compliance requirements could lead to terminations for default, suspension or debarment from U.S. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time or other adverse actions. Such laws, regulations or other compliance requirements include those related to procurement integrity, export control, U.S. government security and information security regulations, supply chain and sourcing requirements and restrictions, employment practices, protection of criminal justice data, protection of the environment, accuracy of records, proper recording of costs, foreign corruption, Trade Agreements Act, Buy America Act, other domestic content requirements, and the False Claims Act. Our ability to fund our customer financing activities at economically competitive levels depends on our ability to borrow and the cost of borrowing in the credit markets. The long-term viability and profitability of our financing business is dependent, in part, on our ability to borrow against or sell leases and the cost of borrowing in the credit markets. This ability and cost, in turn, is dependent on (i) our credit rating, which is currently non-investment grade according to credit rating agency assessments that are subject to periodic reviews and can change following a review and (ii) credit market volatility, the war in Ukraine, conflicts in the Middle East, and other global macroeconomic developments. Enhanced credit market volatility has, among other things, increased the cost of borrowing and reduced access to debt and equity markets. We primarily fund our financing business through a combination of cash generated from operations, cash on hand, capital market offerings, and sales and securitizations of finance receivables. Our ability to continue to offer customer financing and be successful in the placement of equipment, software, and IT services with customers seeking to finance those transactions through Xerox is largely dependent on our ability to obtain funding at a reasonable cost. If our credit rating changes, the credit market becomes more volatile, or other events occur that reduce the demand for, or our ability to provide at attractive rates on, customer financing, it may adversely impact our finance business and results of operations, however, there are alternative sources of funding available to the majority of our customers, which could reduce the overall impact to the broader Xerox business. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and reduce our financial flexibility. As of December 31, 2023, our total debt was $3.3 billion, which primarily consisted of $2.4 billion of Senior and Unsecured Debt and approximately $900 million of Secured Borrowings. In the future, we may incur additional indebtedness for organic or inorganic growth or otherwise. Our level of indebtedness could affect our flexibility and operations in several ways, including the following: a significant portion of our cash flows could be used to service our indebtedness; the covenants contained in the agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness may limit our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets, pay dividends, and make certain investments; our debt covenants may also affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in the economy and in our industry; a high level of debt would increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; Xerox 2023 Annual Report 14 Table of Contents a high level of debt may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may be less leveraged and therefore may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our indebtedness would prevent us from pursuing; and a high level of debt may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions, or general corporate or other purposes. In addition, revolving borrowings under our ABL (as defined below) and the term loans under our TLB (as defined below), and potentially other credit facilities we or our subsidiaries may enter into in the future, will bear interest at variable rates. Increases in market interest rates could lead to higher debt service requirements associated with our variablerate borrowings, if any. The effect of inflation on interest rates could increase our financing costs over time, either through near-term borrowings on our ABL and TLB, refinancing of our existing borrowings, or the issuance of new debt In addition to our debt service obligations, our operations require substantial expenditures on a continuing basis. Our ability to make scheduled debt payments, to refinance our obligations with respect to our indebtedness and to fund capital and noncapital expenditures necessary to maintain the condition of our operating assets and properties, as well as to provide capacity for the growth of our business, depend on our financial and operating performance. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to pay the interest on our debt, and future working capital borrowings or debt or equity financing may not be available to pay or refinance such debt at attractive rates or at all. We need to maintain adequate liquidity in order to meet our operating cash flow requirements, repay maturing debt and meet other financial obligations, such as payment of dividends to the extent declared by our Board of Directors. If we fail to comply with the covenants contained in our various debt agreements, it may adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition. Our liquidity is a function of our cash on-hand and our ability to successfully generate cash flows from a combination of efficient operations and continuing operating improvements, access to capital markets and funding from third parties, which includes securitizations and sales of our finance receivables. We believe our liquidity (including operating and other cash flows that we expect to generate) will be sufficient to meet operating requirements as they arise; however, our ability to maintain sufficient liquidity going forward will be subject to the general liquidity of and on-going changes in the credit markets as well as general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other market factors that are beyond our control. Our $300 million asset-based revolving credit agreement (the ABL), dated as of May 22, 2023, with Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent and collateral agent, and the lenders and issuing banks party thereto, contains a fixed charge coverage ratio of 1x, as defined in the ABL, measured as of the last day of each fiscal quarter during which excess availability is less than an amount equal to the greater of (A) $22.5 million and (B) 10% of the Line Cap (the lesser of the aggregate amount of Revolving Commitments and the then-applicable Borrowing Base). Both the ABL and our $550 million term loan B credit agreement, dated as of November 17, 2023, with Jefferies Finance LLC as administrative agent and collateral agent, and the lenders party thereto (the TLB), are supported by guarantees from us and certain US, Canadian and English subsidiaries (and, within a specified period following the closing date of the TLB, certain German and Belgian subsidiaries), and by security interests in substantially all of our and such US, Canadian and English subsidiaries assets, subject to certain exceptions (and, within a specified period following the closing date of the TLB, the finance lease receivables of such German and Belgian subsidiaries). The ABL and the TLB also impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our best interest, including restrictions on our ability to: pay dividends, make other distributions in respect of, or repurchase or redeem capital stock; incur additional indebtedness and guarantee indebtedness; prepay, redeem, or repurchase certain debt; make loans, investments, and other restricted payments; sell or otherwise dispose of assets; incur liens; enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries ability to pay dividends; consolidate, merge, or sell all or substantially all of our assets; make strategic acquisitions or investments; or enter into joint ventures. Failure to comply with material provisions or covenants in the ABL and the TLB or our other debt agreements, including our secured financing agreements in connection with our securitization transactions and the indentures governing our outstanding notes, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition. A default under certain of our debt agreements may allow our creditors to accelerate the applicable obligations and result in the acceleration of other obligations to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, an event of default under the ABL and the TLB would permit the lenders thereunder to terminate all commitments to extend credit. Furthermore, if we were unable to repay the amounts due Xerox 2023 Annual Report 15 Table of Contents and payable under the ABL and the TLB, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the obligations under the ABL and the TLB. If any of our creditors accelerate the repayment of applicable indebtedness, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. Our credit rating or macroeconomic conditions, including the interest rate environment, could impact our ability to continue to enter into receivables financing transactions at attractive prices or at all. Any new indebtedness, if available to us at all, may result in higher borrowing costs and may contain covenants that would place greater restrictions on how we can run our businesses and/or limit our ability to take certain actions that might otherwise be beneficial to the Company and/or its shareholders, customers, suppliers, partners, and/or lenders. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by employee benefit-related funding requirements. We sponsor several defined benefit pension and retiree-health benefit plans throughout the world. We are required to make contributions to these plans to comply with minimum funding requirements imposed by laws governing these employee benefit plans. Although most of our major defined benefit plans have been amended to freeze current benefits and eliminate benefit accruals for future service, several plans remain unfunded (by design) or are under-funded. The projected benefit obligations for these benefit plans at December 31, 2023 exceeded the value of the assets of those plans by approximately $1.2 billion. The current unfunded or underfunded status of these plans is a significant factor in determining the ongoing future contributions we will be required to make to these plans. Accordingly, we expect to have additional funding requirements in future years, and we may make additional, voluntary contributions to the plans. Depending on our cash position at the time, any such funding or contributions to our defined benefit plans could impact our operating flexibility and financial position, including adversely affecting our cash flow for the quarter in which such funding or contributions are made. Weak macroeconomic conditions and related under-performance of asset markets could also lead to increases in our funding requirements. Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services, and brand. In developing new technologies and products and maintaining our product portfolio, we rely upon patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws in the United States and similar laws in other countries, and a combination of confidentiality, license, assignment and other agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain our intellectual property rights in technology and products used in our operations. However, various events outside of our control may pose a threat to our intellectual property rights, as well as to our products and services. Monitoring and detecting any unauthorized access, use or disclosure of our intellectual property is difficult and costly and we cannot be certain that the protective measures we have implemented will completely prevent misuse. Our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights is subject to litigation risks and uncertainty as to the protection and enforceability of those rights in some countries. If we seek to enforce our intellectual property rights, we may be subject to claims that those rights are invalid or unenforceable, and others may seek counterclaims against us, which could have a negative impact on our business. Effective protection of intellectual property rights is expensive and difficult to maintain, both in terms of application and maintenance costs, as well as the costs of defending and enforcing those rights. Any action against our Company relating to our intellectual property rights, regardless of the outcome, could generate substantial costs and require significant involvement from our management team, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to enforce and protect intellectual property rights, or if they are circumvented, rendered obsolete, invalidated by the rapid pace of technological change, or stolen or misappropriated by employees or third parties, it could have an adverse impact on our competitive position and business. Changes in intellectual property laws or their interpretation may impact our ability to protect and assert our intellectual property rights, increase costs and uncertainties in the prosecution of patent applications or related enforcement actions, and diminish the value and competitive advantage conferred by our intellectual property assets. Negative publicity generated from intellectual property disputes could also harm our reputation and brand image. The efforts we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights may not be sufficient or effective, or existing agreements may be breached. It is possible that our intellectual property rights could be infringed, misappropriated, challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, which could allow others to use our intellectual property to our competitive detriment. Further, we routinely apply for patents to protect innovative ideas in our technology, but we may not always be successful in obtaining patent grants from these applications. We also pursue registration of copyrights, trademarks, and domain names in numerous jurisdictions, but doing so may not always be successful or cost-effective. The laws of certain countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States and we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position. In addition, some of our products rely on Xerox 2023 Annual Report 16 Table of Contents technologies developed by third parties. We may not be able to obtain or to continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties at all or on reasonable terms, or such third parties may demand cross-licenses to our intellectual property. If we fail to accurately anticipate and meet our customers' needs through the development of new products, technologies, and service offerings or if we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, we could lose market share and customers to our competitors, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Failure to meet ESG expectations or standards or achieve our ESG goals could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, or stock price. There has been an increased focus from regulators and stakeholders on environmental, social, and governance (ESG) matters, including greenhouse gas emissions and climate-related risks; diversity, equity, and inclusion; responsible sourcing and supply chain; human rights and social responsibility; and corporate governance and oversight. In the European Union, the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) expands the scope of companies required to publicly report ESG-related information and defines the ESG-related information that companies are required to report in accordance with European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS). Additionally, on March 21, 2022, the SEC released its Proposed Rules to Enhance and Standardize Climate-Related Disclosures for Investors, which, if adopted as a final rule, would require companies to include certain climate-related disclosures in their registration statements and periodic reports, including disclosure of their direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions. Other mandatory ESG-related disclosures include the Conflict Minerals Reporting in the U.S., Transparency in Supply Chain Act in California, the Modern Slavery Act in the UK and Canada, and the Law on Child Labour Due Diligence in The Netherlands. There are also a number of voluntary reporting schemes that provide a framework to report ESG-related information. In 2021 Xerox voluntarily announced its 2040 net zero goal to meet growing expectations of companies to reduce GHG emissions. Xerox recognizes these goals are subject to risks and uncertainties depending on global climate change, economic conditions, and other factors outside of our control. Xerox also recognizes transitional risks associated with changes in voluntary standards and customer preferences in connection with concerns about climate change. If Xerox is unable to offer products that are as energy efficient as our competitors, there is a risk of reduced demand for our products and reduced market share. Inability, or a perception of inability, to achieve progress toward our environmental goals could adversely impact our business or damage our reputation. Damage to our reputation may reduce demand for our products and services and thus have an adverse effect on our future financial results and our stock price, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation. Given our commitment to ESG, we actively engage external and internal stakeholders to manage these issues and have established and publicly announced certain goals, commitments, and targets which we may refine or even expand further in the future. These goals, commitments, and targets reflect our current plans and aspirations and are not guarantees that we will be able to achieve them. Evolving stakeholder expectations and our efforts and ability to manage these issues, provide updates on them, and accomplish our goals, commitments, and targets present numerous operational, regulatory, reputational, financial, legal, and other risks, any of which may be outside of our control or could have a material adverse impact on our business, including on our reputation and stock price. Further, there is uncertainty around the accounting standards, corporate social responsibility, and climate-related disclosures associated with emerging laws and reporting requirements and the related costs to comply with the emerging regulations. Our failure or perceived failure to achieve our ESG goals, maintain ESG practices, or comply with emerging ESG regulations that meet evolving regulatory or stakeholder expectations could harm our reputation, adversely impact our ability to attract and retain customers and talent, and expose us to increased scrutiny from the investment community and enforcement authorities. Increased focus and activism on ESG topics may hinder our access to capital, as investors may reconsider their capital investment as a result of their assessment of our ESG practices. Our reputation also may be harmed by the perceptions that our stakeholders have about our action or inaction with regards to ESG-related issues. Damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity may cause customers to choose to stop purchasing our products and services, purchase products and services from another company or a competitor, or refuse to renew existing contracts, ultimately reducing demand for our products and services and thus have an adverse effect on our future financial results and stock price, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation. Xerox 2023 Annual Report 17 Table of Contents Regulatory Risk Factors The international nature of our business subjects us to a number of risks, including foreign exchange and interest rate risk and unfavorable political, regulatory, and tax conditions in foreign countries. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from operations outside of the United States, and we manufacture or acquire many of our products and/or their components outside the United States. As a result of the global nature of our operations, our business performance and results of operations may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: uncertain global economic and political developments that may impact business conditions and demands; global trade issues including changes in, and uncertainties with respect to, trade and export regulatory requirements, trade policies and sanctions restrictions, tariffs, and international trade disputes; evolving positions taken by governmental agencies regarding possible national economic and/or security issues posed by the development, sale, or export of certain products and technologies; political instability, natural disasters, regional or global health epidemics, social unrest, terrorism, acts of war or other geopolitical turmoil; variations among, and weakness and/or changes in, local, regional, national or international laws and regulations, including contract, intellectual property, data privacy, data protection and cybersecurity, labor, tax, and import/export laws, and the interpretation and application of such laws and regulations; challenges to effective management of a diverse workforce with different experience levels, languages, cultures, customs, business practices and worker expectations, and differing employment practices and labor issues across multiple countries around the world; impacts of climate change on our operations and those of our customers and suppliers; challenges in hiring, retention, and integration of workers in multiple countries around the world; and the increasing need for a mobile workforce to work in or travel to different regions. If our future revenues, costs, and results of operations are significantly affected by economic or political conditions abroad and we are unable to effectively hedge these risks, they could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We operate globally and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our results. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required to determine and estimate worldwide tax liabilities. Our provision for income taxes and effective tax rates could be affected by numerous factors, including changes in applicable tax laws, interpretations of applicable tax laws, amount and composition of pre-tax income in jurisdictions with differing tax rates, and valuation of deferred tax assets. We monitor U.S. and non-U.S. tax law changes that may adversely impact our overall tax costs. From time to time, proposals have been made and/or legislation has been introduced to change tax rates, as well as related tax laws, regulations or interpretations thereof, by various jurisdictions, or to limit tax treaty benefits which, if enacted or implemented could materially increase our tax costs and/or our effective tax rate and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. The international tax environment continues to change as a result of both coordinated actions by governments and unilateral measures designed by individual countries, both intended to tackle concerns over base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) and perceived international tax avoidance techniques. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) is issuing guidelines that are different, in some respects, than long-standing international tax principles. This includes the development of an inclusive framework that is based on a two-pillar approach. In December 2022, the EU Member States formally adopted the EUs Pillar Two Directive, which generally provides for a global minimum tax rate of at least 15%. Various countries in which we operate in have implemented legislation, effective January 1, 2024. Based on the currently enacted legislation, the Company does not expect Pillar Two to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. However, we will continue to monitor any impact to Xerox as countries continue to amend their tax law to adopt certain parts of the OECD guidelines. Taxation at the country, state, provincial or municipal level also may be subject to review and potential override by regional, federal, national, or other government authorities. In addition, we continue to be subject to examination of our income tax returns by the United States Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities around the world. We currently are, and expect to Xerox 2023 Annual Report 18 Table of Contents continue to be, subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign taxes relating to income, sales & use, value-added (VAT), and other tax liabilities. While we have established reserves based on assumptions and estimates that we believe are reasonably sufficient to cover such liabilities, any adverse outcome of a review or audit, or changes in tax laws, could have an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations if the reserves prove to be insufficient. We are subject to breaches of our security systems, cyber-attacks, and service interruptions, which could expose us to liability, litigation, regulatory action and damage our reputation. We have implemented and maintain security systems measures and safeguards, which we believe to be reasonable, to protect our information systems and confidential information, including personal information, and that of our customers, clients and suppliers that is held or processed by us, against unauthorized access or disclosure and to prevent, detect, contain, respond to, and mitigate security-related threats and potential incidents. We undertake ongoing improvements to the security of our systems, connected devices, and information-sharing products in order to minimize potential vulnerabilities, in accordance with industry and regulatory standards. Despite such efforts, our safeguards may fail or we may be subject to breaches of our security resulting in unauthorized access to our facilities or information systems and the information we are trying to protect. Moreover, our business or operations may be affected in the event our customers, clients and suppliers experience data security incidents, cyber-attacks or extended interruptions of their services or systems. Our operations depend on the use of various information systems, including those that may have reached their end-of-life, and may contain unpatched vulnerabilities. Unpatched vulnerabilities in our systems and the utilization of end-of-life systems may expose us to increased cybersecurity risks, including unauthorized access, data breaches, and operational disruptions. The absence of vendor support for end-of-life systems may impede our ability to promptly address and remediate security issues, potentially leading to extended downtime, data breaches, and financial losses. Additionally, the third-party software, or applications we utilize may possess inherent vulnerabilities or design, manufacturing, or operational defects when implemented intentionally or unintentionally in a manner that could compromise security of our information systems. Increased adoption of remote work has also increased possible attack surfaces on our information systems. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized access are constantly changing, are becoming increasingly sophisticated and often are not recognized until after an exploitation of information has occurred. Therefore, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement sufficient preventative measures. Threat actors regularly attempt and, from time to time, have been successful in breaching our security controls, to gain access to our information and infrastructure through various techniques, including phishing, ransomware, account compromise, and other targeted attacks. The Company has retained and, in the future, may retain third-party experts to assist with the containment of and response to security incidents and, in coordination with law enforcement, with the investigation of such incidents. The Company has incurred, and expects to continue to incur, costs, including to retain such third-party experts, in connection with such incidents. We may also find it necessary to make significant further investments to protect this information and our infrastructure. These investments, and costs we incur in connection with security incidents, could be material. While we do not believe cybersecurity incidents have resulted in any material impact on our business, operations or financial results or our ability to service our customers or run our business, past and future incidents resulting in unauthorized access to our facilities or information systems, or those of our suppliers, or accidental loss or disclosure of proprietary or confidential information about us, our clients or our customers could result in, among other things, a total shutdown of our systems that would disrupt our ability to conduct business or pay vendors and employees, violations of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, and a loss of investor confidence in our security measures. Additional impacts from cybersecurity incidents could include remediation costs to our customers or business partners, such as liability for stolen assets or information, repairs of system damage, and incentives for continued business; increased cybersecurity protection costs, which may include the costs of making organizational changes, deploying additional personnel, resources and security technologies, training employees, and engaging third-party experts and consultants; lost revenue resulting from the unauthorized use of proprietary information or the failure to retain or attract business partners following an incident; increased insurance premiums; and damage to the Companys competitiveness, stock price, and long-term shareholder value. In addition, cybersecurity risks and data security incidents could lead to unfavorable publicity, governmental inquiry and oversight, regulatory actions by federal, state and non-U.S. governmental authorities, litigation by affected parties and possible financial obligations for damages related to the theft or misuse of such information, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and cash flow. Xerox 2023 Annual Report 19 Table of Contents We are subject to laws of the United States and foreign jurisdictions relating to the privacy and protection of personal information, and failure to comply with those laws could subject us to legal actions and negatively impact our operations. We receive, process, transmit and store information relating to identifiable individuals, both in our role as a technology provider and as an employer. As a result, we are subject to numerous privacy and data protection laws and regulations in the United States (both federal and state) and foreign jurisdictions. The global regulatory landscape regarding the protection of personal information is evolving, and U.S. (federal and state) and foreign governments have enacted, and are considering further enacting, legislation and regulations related to privacy and data protection, we expect to see an increase in, or changes to, legislation and regulation in this area. For example, the California Consumer Privacy Act of 20-18 (CCPA), regulates businesses processing of personal information, which is defined broadly enough to include online identifiers provided by individuals devices, applications, and protocols (such as IP addresses, mobile application identifiers and unique cookie identifiers) and individuals location data. The CCPA, which went into effect on January 1, 2020, instituted a new privacy framework for covered businesses by, among other requirements, establishing certain rights for consumers in California to protect their personal information (including rights of deletion of and access to personal information), imposing special rules on the collection of consumer data from minors, creating new notice obligations and new limits on the sale of personal information, and creating a new and potentially severe statutory damages framework for violations of the CCPA and for businesses that fail to implement reasonable security procedures and practices to prevent data breaches. The CCPA also offers the possibility for a consumer to recover statutory damages for certain violations and could expose our company to additional risks of individual and class-action lawsuits even though the statutes private right of action is limited in scope. The California Privacy Rights Act of 2020 (CPRA), which took effect on January 1, 2023, amended and expanded upon the CCPA to impose additional notice, access, objection, limitation of use, nondiscrimination, and other obligations and restrictions with regards to the processing of sensitive data and the disclosure of data to third parties, which does not constitute a sale. Several other U.S. states have enacted their own data privacy laws similar to the CCPA. These laws generally grant individuals a range of new privacy rights and protections relating to their personal data, and impose obligations on businesses processing such data. Each of these new laws may create additional compliance costs for us and our industry partners, though efforts taken toward compliance with other privacy laws will likely be applicable to many elements of the newly enacted state statutes. Although we have attempted to mitigate certain risks posed by these laws, we cannot predict with certainty the effect of these laws and their implementing regulations on our business. Laws governing personal data in Europe may have a similar effect on our Company. For example, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) enhances data protection obligations for controllers of such data and for service providers processing the data. It also provides certain rights, such as access and deletion, to the individuals about whom the personal data relates. Non-compliance with the GDPR can trigger steep fines of up to the greater of EUR 20 million or 4% of total worldwide annual revenue. Continuing to maintain compliance with the requirements of the GDPR and other similar foreign laws, including monitoring and adjusting to rulings and interpretations by supervisory authorities and/or courts of competent jurisdiction, may affect our approach to compliance and requires significant ongoing time, resources and expense, as will the effort to monitor whether additional changes to our business practices and our backend configuration are needed, all of which may increase operating costs, or limit our ability to operate or expand our business. Furthermore, we are also subject to similar laws related to data protection in other jurisdictions, such as the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act (PIPEDA) in Canada, and the General Data Protection Law (LGDP) in Brazil. These laws and other obligations may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our existing data management practices or features of our systems and services. If so, we could be required to fundamentally change our business activities and practices or modify our products, which could have an adverse effect on our business. We may be unable to make such changes and modifications in a commercially reasonable manner or at all, and our ability to develop new products and features could be limited. Changes to existing laws, introduction of new laws in this area, or failure to comply with existing laws that are applicable to us may subject us to, among other things, additional costs or changes to our business practices, liability for monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity or other reputational harm, restrictions on our ability to obtain and process information and allegations by our customers and clients that we have not performed our contractual obligations, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our profitability and cash flow. Xerox 2023 Annual Report 20 Table of Contents Tariffs or other restrictions on foreign imports could negatively impact our financial performance. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted by a potential increase in the cost of our products as a result of new or incremental trade protection measures, such as increased import tariffs or import or export restrictions; or, the revocation or material modification of trade agreements. Changes in U.S. and international trade policy and resultant retaliatory countermeasures, including imposition of increased tariffs, quotas, or duties by affected countries and trading partners are difficult to predict and may adversely affect our business. The U.S. government has and could in the future impose trade barriers including tariffs, quotas, duties, or other restrictions on foreign imports, or restrictions on U.S. exports. The implementation of a border tax, tariff or higher customs duties on our products manufactured abroad or components that we import into the U.S., or any potential corresponding actions by other countries in which we do business, could negatively impact our financial performance. We are subject to numerous environmental laws, regulations, and procurement initiatives and failure to comply could result in substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines, civil or criminal sanctions, third-party damage or personal injury claims, or limited market access. Continuing political and social attention to the issue of climate change has led to existing and proposed international agreements as well as national, state, local, and foreign legislative, regulatory and procurement initiatives directed at requiring companies to disclose and limit greenhouse gas emissions in the countries, states, and territories in which we operate. Laws, regulatory actions, international agreements, such as the Paris Agreement, and other initiatives to address concerns about climate change and greenhouse gas emissions could negatively impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition, including, among other things, by limiting the availability of our products, increasing the cost to obtain or sell those products, and increasing our reporting and disclosure expenses, or imposing taxes on us or our customers. Though the ultimate impact of these and similar initiatives is not yet fully known, compliance with such proposed or newly adopted disclosure initiatives may incur significant costs. Our operations and our products are subject to environmental regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business and sell our products. Various countries and jurisdictions have adopted, or are expected to adopt, restrictions on the types and amounts of chemicals that may be present in electronic equipment or other items that we use or sell. Ongoing research and review of chemicals used in our products could lead to further restriction of common chemicals in office equipment and supplies. In the European Union, we are subject to REACH Regulation (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals), a broad initiative that requires parties throughout the supply chain to register, assess and disclose information regarding many chemicals in their products. Depending on the types, applications, forms and uses of chemical substances in various products, REACH and similar regulatory programs in other jurisdictions could lead to restrictions and/or bans on certain chemical usage. In the United States, the Toxics Substances Control Act (TSCA) authorizes the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to regulate and screen all chemicals produced or imported into the United States. Xerox continues its efforts toward monitoring and evaluating the applicability of these and numerous other regulatory initiatives in a continuous effort to develop and enable compliance strategies. As these and similar initiatives and programs become regulatory requirements throughout the world and/or are adopted as public or private procurement requirements, we must comply. Failure to comply could result in the company being subject to potential liability and facing market access limitations that could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Other potentially relevant regulatory initiatives throughout the world include various efforts to limit energy use in product manufacturing and other environment-related programs impacting products and operations, such as those associated with climate change accords, agreements and regulations. For example, the European Union's Energy-Related Products Directive (ERP) has led to the adoption of implementing measures or "voluntary agreements" that require certain classes of products to achieve certain design and/or performance standards, in connection with energy use and potentially other environmental parameters and impacts. A number of our products are already required to comply with ERP requirements and further regulations are being developed by the EU authorities. The EU Circular Economy Action Plan (CEAP) introduced legislative and non-legislative measures focusing on how products are designed, promoting circular economy processes, encouraging sustainable consumption, and ensuring waste is prevented. The implementation of the CEAP is expected to impact how companies prove environmental claims and the materials used, including chemicals and plastics, in products that are placed in the EU market. Environmentally driven procurement requirements also voluntarily adopted by customers in the marketplace (e.g., U.S. EPA EnergyStar, EPEAT, and EU Green Public Procurement) are constantly evolving and becoming more stringent, presenting further market access challenges if our products fail to comply. Xerox 2023 Annual Report 21 Table of Contents Various countries and jurisdictions have adopted or are expected to adopt requirements clarifying manufacturer roles and responsibilities related to the recovery of products that were placed on the market and remediation of by-products of the manufacturing process. For example, jurisdictions have adopted or are expected to adopt, programs that make producers of electrical goods, including computers and printers, responsible for certain labeling, collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of these recovered products. If we are unable to collect, recycle, treat and dispose of our products in a cost-effective manner and in accordance with applicable requirements, it could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Further, Xerox is party to, or otherwise involved in, proceedings in a limited number of locations brought by U.S. or state environmental agencies under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), known as "Superfund," or state laws, in which the primary relief sought is the cost of past and/or future remediation. The nature of financial exposure depends on a variety of factors including changes in laws, known contamination, and discovered contamination that was previously unknown. General Risk Factors Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted by legal and regulatory matters. We have various contingent liabilities that are not reflected on our balance sheet, including those arising as a result of being involved in a variety of claims, lawsuits, investigations, and proceedings including as discussed in Note 20 - Contingencies and Litigation in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Should developments in any of these matters cause a change in our determination as to an unfavorable outcome and result in the need to recognize a material accrual or materially increase an existing accrual, or should any of these matters result in a final adverse judgment or be settled for significant amounts above any existing accruals, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position in the period or periods in which such change in determination, judgment or settlement occurs. Due to the international scope of our operations, we are subject to a complex system of commercial and trade regulations around the world. With respect to the war in Ukraine, in the first quarter 2022, we halted shipments to Russia and Belarus when sanctions were imposed, and we completed the sale of all Russian operations in 2023. Recent years have seen an increase in the development and enforcement of laws regarding trade compliance and anti-corruption, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws from other countries. Our numerous foreign subsidiaries, affiliates and joint venture partners are governed by laws, rules and business practices that differ from those of the U.S. The activities of these entities may not comply with U.S. or foreign laws or business practices or our Code of Business Conduct. Violations of these laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, could disrupt our business, and result in an adverse effect on our reputation, business and results of operations or financial condition. We cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our operations might be subject, our compliance with such requirements, or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. Our failure to maintain an adequate system of internal control over financial reporting, could adversely affect our ability to accurately report our results. Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in our internal control over financial reporting that results in a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and deter and detect any material fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent material fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. We maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2023, as further described in Part II Item 9AControls and Procedures. Our efforts to develop and maintain our internal controls and to remediate any material weaknesses in our controls may not be successful, and we may be unable to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, including future compliance with the obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any failure to develop or maintain effective controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, including those related to acquired businesses, or other effective improvement of our internal controls could harm our operating results. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. Xerox 2023 Annual Report 22 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None Item 1C. Cybersecurity Risk Management Strategy Xerox Holdings maintains a cyber risk management program designed to identify, assess, manage, mitigate, and respond to cybersecurity threats. This program is integrated within the Companys enterprise risk management system and addresses both the corporate information technology environment and customer-facing products and services. The underlying controls of the cyber risk management program are based on recognized leading practices and standards for cybersecurity and information technology, including the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) and the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 27001 Information Security Management System Requirements. The risk management program is primarily focused on safeguarding the organization's digital assets, ensuring continuous business operations, and minimizing the potential impact of cyber threats. The structured risk management process is designed to comprehensively identify and assess risks, implement effective mitigation and remediation strategies, enhance overall cybersecurity resilience, and provide transparent reporting. Continuous risk assessments are conducted through internal evaluations and routine engagements with independent third-party security services organizations to systematically identify, prioritize and manage information security risks. Subsequently, risk mitigation strategies are developed and executed to address and remediate identified risks effectively through new cybersecurity initiatives and ongoing enhancements to the cybersecurity program. Regular audits and assessments, including penetration tests and attack simulations, are performed both internally and through independent third-party consultants, and internal auditors evaluate the operational effectiveness of cybersecurity controls and risk management measures. These inputs form the basis of a risk register that is integrated into the overall enterprise risk management program to further inform the Company's strategy assessing the likelihood, impact, and velocity of these risks on a forward-looking, multi-year mitigated basis. A formal process exists, grounded in the enterprise risk management program where material risks, interdependencies, and the associated remediation plans that are tracked to completion at a minimum on a monthly basis are presented and discussed cross-functionally. In addition to the normal discourse on emerging risks, a focused drill down into cybersecurity risk is presented annually at the enterprise risk steering committee meeting. The outcomes of these discussions are submitted quarterly to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. All employees and contractors play an important role in protecting the organization from cyber threats. We have implemented a formal cybersecurity training and awareness program that includes mandatory annual information security training and continuous education through various enterprise collaboration platforms. Our Cyber Defense team plays an important role in implementing our protection, detection, and response capabilities. Security incidents are evaluated, ranked by severity and prioritized for response and remediation. Our incident response process outlines actions required to triage, analyze, contain, remediate, and safely recover from cybersecurity incidents. Security incidents are evaluated to determine materiality as well as operational and business impacts, and are reviewed for privacy impacts. Xerox Holdings has established a structured third-party risk management program, with a primary focus on assessing and mitigating potential cyber risks linked to external vendors and partners who have access to the organization's digital assets or play a role in storing and processing data. This also extends to the software supply chain supporting our products and services. A thorough due diligence process is conducted on all prospective third parties to evaluate their overall security posture and alignment with Xerox Holdings' organizational standards. Additionally, ongoing assessments are regularly conducted on selected existing vendors and partners to confirm their continuous compliance with Xerox Holdings' cybersecurity standards and policies. Where applicable, we also include security and data privacy addendums in our third-party contracts. Xerox Holdings also engages with external managed security service providers to support certain day-to-day operational activities in addition to in-house cybersecurity staff as part of the cybersecurity program. To date, no cybersecurity incident has resulted in any material impact on our business, operations or financial results or our ability to service our customers or run our business. Refer to Item 1A Risk Factors for additional discussion of risks associated with cybersecurity threats to the Company. Xerox 2023 Annual Report 23 Table of Contents Governance Xerox Holdings' Cybersecurity organization is a global organization and is dedicated to protecting its infrastructure, information, and digital assets. It is responsible for establishing appropriate security policies, safeguards and controls to prevent, detect and respond to cyber threats, meet regulatory and compliance requirements, securing Xerox Holdings' intellectual property, products and services, and supply chain in collaboration with business, product, and IT partners. The information security organization is led by the Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) who reports to the Chief Transformation and Administrative Officer. In his over 18-year career as a Cybersecurity professional, the CISO has served in various roles with Fortune 500 companies, including as Deputy CISO, Head of Cyber Defense & Security Architecture, Distinguished Technologist Security, and Specialist Master. The CISO holds a bachelors degree in Electrical and Electronics Engineering, is a Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP), and has extensive experience in multiple security domains, including security operations, security architecture, identity and access management, cloud security, vulnerability management, and application/product security, policy, and compliance. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors provides governance and oversight of the cybersecurity program and approves the information security program annually. Regular updates are presented to the Audit Committee by the CISO on the current state of the cybersecurity program, providing transparency including progress on initiatives, operational and compliance metrics, risks, cybersecurity and data privacy incidents (if any), and appropriate remediation actions. The Board of Directors also considers cybersecurity topics on an ad hoc basis where appropriate, including for purposes of receiving briefings on developments in cybersecurity or cybersecurity incidents and assessing and managing potentially material risks arising from cybersecurity threats. There are two committees comprised of Company leadership, including the enterprise risk management steering committee, which meets monthly, and the Xerox Holdings management audit committee, which meets at least quarterly, to discuss the current operational and security compliance metrics, cybersecurity incidents, and risks. Item 2. Properties We own or lease several manufacturing, engineering and research facilities. Our principal owned manufacturing and engineering facilities are located in New York, Oklahoma, Oregon and Ireland, and our principal owned research facility is located in New York. We also lease manufacturing facilities in the Netherlands and Ontario, Canada. Our Corporate Headquarters is a leased facility located in Norwalk, Connecticut. In 2023, we owned or leased facilities globally which include general offices, sales offices, service locations, data centers, call centers, manufacturing facilities, warehouses and distribution centers. The size of our property portfolio at December 31, 2023 was approximately 10.3 million square feet, which was comprised of 273 leased facilities and 11 owned properties with 59 buildings (of which 45 are located on our Webster, New York campus). We occupied approximately 8.6 million square feet, 1.6 million square feet were surplus, and approximately 91 thousand square feet was sublet to third parties. It is our opinion that our properties have been well maintained, are in sound operating condition and contain all the necessary equipment and facilities to perform their functions. Our properties are primarily managed by, and are in support of, the Print and Other segment. The FITTLE segment does share in the use of certain facilities for which they are allocated occupancy costs. We believe that our current facilities are suitable and adequate for our current businesses. Refer to Note 11 - Lessee in the Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding our leased assets. Item 3. Legal Proceedings Refer to the information set forth under Note 20 - Contingencies and Litigation in the Consolidated Financial Statements - Litigation Matters. We are also engaged in numerous other legal actions arising in the ordinary course of our business (for example, proceedings relating to employment matters or the initiation or defense of proceedings relating to intellectual property rights), and while there can be no assurance, we believe that the ultimate outcome of these other legal actions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. Xerox 2023 Annual Report 24 Table of Contents Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Corporate Information Stock Exchange Information Xerox Holdings Corporation's common stock (XRX) is listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. There is no established public trading market for Xerox Corporation's common stock, as all of the outstanding Xerox common stock is held solely by Xerox Holdings. Common Shareholders of Record As of December 31, 2023, Xerox Holdings Corporation had approximately 18,741 shareholders of record. Dividends For additional information regarding dividends, refer to