Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the attached unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto, and with our audited financial statements and notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2019 found in the Form 10-K. This Quarterly Report contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to the safe harbor provisions created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as expects, anticipates, plans, believes, seeks, estimates, could, would, may, intends, targets and similar expressions or variations of such words are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report. The identification of certain statements as forward-looking is not intended to mean that other statements not specifically identified are not forward-looking. All statements other than statements about historical facts are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, statements that relate to our future revenue, product development, demand, acceptance and market share, growth rate, competitiveness, gross margins, levels of research, development and other related costs, expenditures, the outcome or effects of and expenses related to litigation and administrative proceedings related to our patents, our intent to enforce our intellectual property, our ability to license our intellectual property, tax expenses, cash flows, our ability to liquidate and recover the carrying value of our investments, our management's plans and objectives for our current and future operations, our plans for quarterly dividends and stock repurchases, the levels of customer spending or research and development activities, general economic conditions, and the sufficiency of financial resources to support future operations and capital expenditures. Although forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report reflect the good faith judgment of our management, such statements can only be based on facts and factors currently known by us. Consequently, forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks, uncertainties, and changes in condition, significance, value and effect, including those discussed below under the heading Risk Factors within Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report and other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), such as our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our current reports on Form 8-K. Such risks, uncertainties and changes in condition, significance, value and effect could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed herein and in ways not readily foreseeable. Readers are urged not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report and are based on information currently and reasonably known to us. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements in order to reflect any event or circumstance that may arise after the date of this Quarterly Report. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this Quarterly Report, which attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Corporate Information Our principal executive offices are located at 3025 Orchard Parkway, San Jose, California 95134. Our telephone number is (408) 321-6000. We maintain a website at www.xperi.com. The reference to our website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on this website. Xperi, the Xperi logo, Tessera, the Tessera logo, DTS, the DTS logo, FotoNation, Invensas, the Invensas logo, BVA, ZiBond, DBI, DBI Ultra, DTS HD , DTS Audio Processing, DTS:X Ultra, DTS Virtual:X, DTS Headphone:X, DTS PlayFi, DTS:X, Perceive, Ergo, and HD Radio are trademarks or registered trademarks of Xperi Corporation or its affiliated companies in the U.S. and other countries. All other company, brand and product names may be trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective companies. In this Quarterly Report, the Company, we, us and our refer to Xperi Corporation, which operates its business through its subsidiaries. Unless specified otherwise, the financial results in this Quarterly Report are those of the Company and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. Business Overview Xperi is a publicly-traded technology company with headquarters in Silicon Valley and operations around the world. Through its operating subsidiaries, Xperi creates, develops and licenses innovative audio, imaging, semiconductor packaging and interconnect technologies. We have approximately 700 employees and 30 years of operating experience. We license our innovative products, technologies and inventions to global electronics companies which, in turn, integrate the technologies into their own consumer electronics and semiconductor products. Our technologies and inventions are widely adopted and used every day by millions of people. Our audio technologies have shipped in billions of devices for the home, 26 mobile and automotive markets. Our imaging technologies have been embedded in billions of smartphones and other mobile devices . Our semiconductor packaging and interconnect technologies have been licensed to more than 100 customers and have shipped in over 100 billion semiconductor chips. On December 18, 2019, we entered into a definitive agreement with TiVo to combine in an all-stock merger of equals transaction. The transaction will create a leading consumer and entertainment technology licensing business and one of the industrys largest intellectual property (IP) licensing platforms with a diverse portfolio of entertainment and semiconductor intellectual property. The transaction is expected to close and become effective during the second quarter of 2020, subject to regulatory approvals, the approval by the shareholders of each company, and other customary closing conditions. For further discussion on the planned Mergers, refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors , and Note 1 The Company and Basis of Presentation in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. The planned Mergers will result in material changes to the combined companies balance sheet, results of operations and cash flows. Xperi and TiVo intend to refinance their existing indebtedness on a combined basis. We have obtained a debt commitment letter for an aggregate principal amount of $1,100 million in debt financing in order to pay transaction expenses in connection with the planned merger and to refinance the existing indebtedness of the Company and TiVo. As a result, the combined companys debt balance will increase substantially following the planned merger. Additionally, our combined revenue, operating expenses, and cash from operations should all increase, resulting in the trends noted below in our Results of Operations to be altered going forward. COVID-19 Impact In December 2019, a novel strain of coronavirus was reported to have surfaced in Wuhan, China, and has since spread to a number of other countries, including the United States. In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared coronavirus disease (COVID-19) a pandemic. In an effort to protect the health and safety of our employees, we took proactive, aggressive action from the earliest signs of the outbreak to adopt social distancing policies at our locations around the world, including working from home, limiting the number of employees attending meetings, and suspending employee travel. In an effort to contain COVID -19 or slow its spread, governments around the world have also enacted various measures, including orders to close all business locations not deemed essential, isolate people to their places of residence, and practice social distancing when engaging in essential activities. We anticipate that these actions and the resulting global economic impacts will negatively impact our consolidated financial results in the second quarter and in later periods of 2020. The impact to date has included significant volatility and a decline in demand in various markets and industries, particularly the automotive market, which will adversely impact our revenue and billings. In addition, we recorded an incremental provision for credit losses of approximately $2.0 million due to heightened risk of nonpayment on existing accounts receivable as a result of the impaired financial condition and liquidity positions of certain of our customers. We have been closely monitoring the COVID-19 pandemic and its impacts on our business, including legislation to mitigate the impact of COVID-19 such as the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act which was enacted on March 27, 2020. More than half of our anticipated billings for 2020 are derived from fixed-fee and minimum-guarantee arrangements, primarily from large, well-capitalized customers which we believe somewhat mitigates the risks to our business. Although at present time we are unable to predict the full impact and duration of COVID-19 on our business, we are actively managing our financial expenditures in response to the current uncertainty. Further discussion of the potential impacts on our business from the COVID-19 pandemic is provided under Part II, Item 1A Risk Factors . Results of Operations We adopted the new accounting standard, ASU No. 2014-09 (Topic 606) " Revenue from Contracts with Customers " effective January 1, 2018, which had a material impact on the financial reporting of our operating results. The adoption of Topic 606 does not, however, impact billings or the cash flow from our contracts with customers. We expect to experience greater variability in quarterly revenue as a result of Topic 606 being applied to minimum guarantee and fixed fee licensing contracts. We place greater emphasis on billings and operating cash flows rather than revenue and net operating results to internally evaluate our financial performance. Revenue Our revenue is generated primarily from royalty and license fees. Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products, services or intellectual property and technologies (IP) rights to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that we expect to receive in exchange for those products, services or licensing of the IP rights. 27 Certain licensees have entered into fixed fee or minimum guarantee arrangements, whereby licensees pay a fixed fee for the right to incorporate our technology in the licensee's products over the license term. In arrangements with a minimum guarantee, the fixed fee component corresponds to a minimum number of units or dollars that the customer must produce or pay, with additional per-unit fees for any units or dollars exceeding the minimum. For these agreements, we recognize the full fixed fee as revenue at the beginning of the license term, when the licensee has the right to use the IP and begins to benefit from the license. If the contract term of a fixed fee or minimum guarantee arrangement is longer than one year, we also consider the scheduled payment arrangements to determine whether a financing component exists. In general, if the payment arrangements extend beyond the initial twelve months of the contract, we treat a portion of the payments as a financing component. The discount rate used for each arrangement reflects the rate that would be used in a separate financing transaction between us and the licensee at contract inception, and takes into account the credit characteristics of the licensee and market interest rates as of the date of the agreement. As such, the amount of fixed fee revenue recognized at the beginning of the license term will be reduced by the calculated financing component. As payments are received from the licensee, we recognize a portion of the financing component through interest income. For certain licensees, royalty revenue is generated based on a licensee's production or shipment of licensed products incorporating our IP, technologies or software. Licensees with a per-unit arrangement pay a per-unit royalty for each product manufactured or sold, as set forth in its license agreement. Licensees generally report manufacturing or sales information in the quarter subsequent to when such activity takes place. Under Topic 606, we estimate the royalties earned each quarter based on our forecast of manufacturing and sales activity incurred by our licensees in that quarter. Any differences between actual royalties owed by a licensee and our quarterly estimates are recognized in the following quarter, when the licensees royalty report is received. Estimating licensees quarterly royalties prior to receiving the royalty reports requires us to make significant assumptions and judgments related to forecasted trends and growth rates used to estimate quantities shipped by customers, which could have a material impact on the amount of revenue we report on a quarterly basis. The timing of revenue recognition and the amount of revenue actually recognized for each type of revenue depends upon a variety of factors, including the specific terms of each arrangement, our ability to determine and allocate the transaction price to each separate performance obligation and the nature of our deliverables and obligations. In addition, our royalty revenue will fluctuate based on a number of factors such as: (a) the rate of adoption and incorporation of our technology by licensees; (b) the demand for products incorporating semiconductors that use our licensed technology; (c) the cyclicality of supply and demand for products using our licensed technology; (d) volume incentive pricing terms in licensing agreements that may result in significant variability in quarterly revenue recognition from customers and (e) the impact of economic downturns. From time to time we enter into license agreements that have fixed expiration dates. Upon expiration of such agreements, we need to renew or replace these agreements in order to maintain our revenue base. We may not be able to continue licensing customers on terms favorable to us, under the existing terms or at all, which would in turn harm our results of operations. In the past, we have engaged in litigation and arbitration proceedings to directly or indirectly enforce our intellectual property rights and the terms of our license agreements, including proceedings to ensure proper and full payment of royalties by our current licensees and by third parties whose products incorporate our intellectual property rights. 28 The following table presents our historical operating results for the periods indicated as a percentage of revenue: Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 March 31, 2019 Revenue: Royalty and license fees 100 % 100 % Total revenue 100 100 Operating expenses: Cost of revenue 1 4 Research, development and other related costs 25 48 Selling, general and administrative 32 54 Amortization expense 19 45 Litigation expense 2 2 Total operating expenses 79 153 Operating income (loss) 21 (53 ) Interest expense 4 12 Other income and expense, net (1 ) (4 ) Income (loss) before taxes 18 (61 ) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 2 (16 ) Net income (loss) 16 % (45 )% Our royalty and license fees were as follows (in thousands, except for percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 March 31, 2019 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change Royalty and license fees $ 117,665 $ 56,567 $ 61,098 108 % The $61.1 million or 108% increase in revenue was driven primarily by a litigation settlement reached in March 2020, and secondarily by higher minimum guarantee (MG) revenue due to the timing and duration of MG contracts up for renewal and executed during the quarter. Our billings were as follows (in thousands, except for percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 March 31, 2019 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change Total billings $ 112,793 $ 104,302 $ 8,491 8 % The $8.5 million or 8% increase in billings was due primarily to the payments from the aforementioned litigation settlement, partially offset by lower billings in other Semiconductor and IP Licensing agreements expiring at the end of 2019, and by lower Product Licensing billings. With changes in revenue recognition due to the adoption of Topic 606 in 2018, we anticipate our revenue for 2020 will continue to be impacted due principally to our inability to record future billings as revenue in 2020 and later periods, where such revenue arises from minimum guarantee and fixed fee licensing contracts in place prior to adoption of Topic 606 on January 1, 2018. This accounting change will not impact billings or the cash flow from these contracts. Furthermore, we may experience greater variability in quarterly and annual revenue in future periods as a result of the revenue accounting treatment applied to future minimum guarantee and fixed fee licensing contracts. Management places greater emphasis on billings and cash flows rather than revenue and net operating results to internally evaluate our financial performance. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue consists of royalties paid to third parties and direct compensation and related expenses to provide non-recurring engineering (NRE) services. 29 Cost of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was $1.6 million, as compared to $2.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 201 9 . The decrease was primarily due to lower NRE-related costs resulting from less NRE activity in the first quarter of 2020 . Research, Development and Other Related Costs Research and development (R&D) is conducted primarily in-house and targets development of audio and image enhancement technologies, chip-scale, multi-chip and wafer level packaging, circuitry, 3D-IC architectures, wafer and die bonding technologies and machine learning. Research, development and other related costs include expenses associated with applications engineering necessary to port and integrate our technologies and products on third party silicon and into end devices. These costs consist primarily of compensation and related costs for personnel, engineering consulting expenses associated with new product and technology development, product commercialization, quality assurance and testing costs, as well as costs related to patent applications and examinations, product "tear downs" and reverse engineering, materials, supplies and equipment depreciation. All research, development and other related costs are expensed as incurred. Research, development and other related costs for the three months ended March 31, 2020 were $29.1 million, as compared to $27.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, an increase of $2.1 million or 8%. The increase was primarily driven by increased headcount and personnel costs in Perceive Corporation (Perceive), an Xperi subsidiary focused on neural network edge inference solutions to deliver smarter products that understand their environment and respond intelligently. We believe that a significant level of research and development expenses will be required for us to remain competitive in the future. Selling, General and Administrative Selling expenses consist primarily of compensation and related costs for sales and marketing personnel engaged in sales and licensee support, reverse engineering personnel and services, marketing programs, public relations, promotional materials, travel, trade show expenses, and stock-based compensation expense. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and related costs for general management, information technology, finance personnel, legal fees and expenses, facilities costs, stock-based compensation expense, and professional services. Our general and administrative expenses, other than facilities related expenses, are not allocated to other expense line items. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2020 were $37.8 million, as compared to $30.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, an increase of $7.2 million or 24%. The increase was primarily driven by $3.1 million of costs related to the planned Mergers, an increase of $2.1 million in provision for credit loss expense due primarily to the COVID-19 impact, and an increase of $1.3 million in sales/marketing promotion expense. Amortization Expense Amortization expense for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was $22.5 million, as compared to $25.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, a decrease of $3.0 million. The decrease was primarily attributable to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized over the past twelve months. With the acquisition of DTS in 2016, we anticipate that amortization expense will continue to be a significant expense since we acquired approximately $479 million in intangible assets which will be amortized over the next several years. See Note 7 Acquisition , Goodwill and Identified Intangible Assets" in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Litigation Expense Litigation expense for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was $2.1 million, as compared to $1.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, an increase of $0.8 million. The increase was due principally to increased case activity during the quarter. We expect that litigation expense may continue to be a material portion of our operating expenses in future periods, and may fluctuate between periods, because of planned or ongoing litigation, as described in Part II, Item 1 Legal Proceeding s, and because of litigation planned for or initiated from time to time in the future in order to enforce and protect our intellectual property and contract rights. We currently expect litigation expense to increase in 2020 as compared to 2019 based on expected case activity on matters currently outstanding. 30 Upon expiration of our customers licenses, if those licenses are not renewed, litigation may become necessary to secure payment of reasonable royalties for the use of our patented technology. If we plan for or initiate such litigation, our future litigation expenses may increase. Stock-based Compensation Expense The following table sets forth our stock-based compensation expense for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 March 31, 2019 Research, development and other related costs $ 3,036 $ 3,603 Selling, general and administrative 4,951 4,020 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 7,987 $ 7,623 Stock-based compensation awards include employee stock options, restricted stock awards and units, and employee stock plan purchases. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, stock-based compensation expense was $7.3 million, of which $6.6 million related to restricted stock awards and units and $0.7 million related to employee stock plan purchases. For the three months ended March 31, 2019, stock-based compensation expense was $7.6 million, of which $0.1 million related to employee stock options, $6.9 million related to restricted stock awards and units and $0.6 million related to employee stock plan purchases . The increase in stock-based compensation for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was due primarily to vesting of performance awards and units . Interest Expense Interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 was $4.3 million and $6.7 million, respectively. The decrease in interest expense in the three months ended March 31, 2020 was primarily a result of a lower average debt balance as compared to the comparable period in 2019, coupled with lower interest rates on our debt in the current quarter. Interest expense may increase in future periods if interest rates increase. Other Income and Expense, Net Other income and expense, net, for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was $0.6 million, as compared to $2.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019. Other income and expense, net, was lower in the first quarter of 2020 due principally to a decrease in interest income from financing components under Topic 606 . Provision for Income Taxes For the three months ended March 31, 2020, we recorded an income tax expense of $2.1 million on pretax income of $20.8 million, which resulted in an effective tax rate of 9.9%. The income tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was primarily related to tax expense from operating income, increase in certain non-deductible expenses, shortfalls from stock-based compensation, increase in valuation allowance on certain deferred tax assets, and unrealized foreign exchange losses from the prior year Korea refund claim, offset by a deduction from foreign-derived intangible income and the release of unrecognized tax benefits due to lapse in statute of limitation. For the three months ended March 31, 2019, we recorded an income tax benefit of $9.0 million on a pre-tax loss of $34.4 million, which resulted in an effective tax rate of 26.0%. The effective tax rate was primarily related to tax benefit from operational losses and the realization of certain tax credits, offset by foreign withholding taxes, certain non-deductible expenses, and shortfalls from stock-based compensation. Our provision for income taxes is based on our worldwide estimated annualized effective tax rate, except for jurisdictions for which a loss is expected for the year and no benefit can be realized for those losses, and the tax effect of discrete items occurring during the period. The tax for jurisdictions for which a loss is expected and no benefit can be realized for the year is based on actual taxes and tax reserves for the quarter. The change from income tax benefit to income tax expense for the period ended March 31, 2020 as compared to the prior year is largely attributable to operating income, increase in certain non-deductible expenses and unrealized foreign exchange loss from the Korean refund claim, partially offset by tax benefits from the release of unrecognized tax benefits due to lapse in statute of limitation. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, we filed a refund claim for foreign taxes previously withheld from licensees in Korea based on recent court rulings in Korea and other business factors. These previously withheld foreign taxes were claimed as a 31 foreign tax credit in the U.S. As a result of our refund claim, we recorded a non-current income tax receivable of $65.2 million in income tax receivable, an unrecognized tax benefit of $48.2 million in other long-term liabilities, and a reduction in deferred tax assets of $17.0 million. We anticipate filing a refund claim for the 2020 year-to-date Korean withholding taxes. During the first quarter of 2020, an additional non-current income tax receivable of $4.8 million, an unrecognized tax benefit of $2.4 million in other long-term liabilities, and a reduction in deferred tax assets of $2.3 million were recorded. At March 31, 2020, we had recorded a cumulative unrealized foreign exchange loss of approximately $3.9 million as a reduction in non-current income tax receivable . The need for a valuation allowance requires an assessment of both positive and negative evidence when determining whether it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets are recoverable. Such assessment is required on a jurisdiction-by-jurisdiction basis. In making such assessment, significant weight is given to evidence that can be objectively verified. After considering both positive and negative evidence to assess the recoverability of our net deferred tax assets, we determined that it was more likely than not that we would not realize certain federal, state and foreign deferred tax assets given the substantial amount of tax attributes that will remain unutilized to offset forecasted future tax liabilities. In the future, we may release valuation allowance and recognize certain deferred federal tax assets, deferred state tax assets or deferred tax assets of other foreign subsidiaries depending on achievement of future profitability in relevant jurisdictions, or implementing tax planning strategies that enable us to utilize deferred tax assets that would otherwise be unused. Any release of valuation allowance could have the effect of decreasing the income tax provision in the period the valuation allowance is released. We continue to monitor the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets, including those for which a valuation allowance is recorded. There can be no assurance that we will generate profits or implement tax strategies in future periods enabling us to fully realize our deferred tax assets. The timing of recording a valuation allowance or the reversal of such valuation allowance is subject to objective and subjective factors that cannot be readily predicted in advance. Adjustments could be required in the future if we conclude that it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets are not recoverable. A provision for a valuation allowance could have the effect of increasing the income tax provision in the period the valuation allowance is provided. Segment Operating Results We operate in two reportable segments: (1) Product Licensing and (2) Semiconductor and IP Licensing. There are certain corporate overhead costs that are not allocated to these reportable segments because these operating amounts are not considered in evaluating the operating performance of our business segments. The Chief Executive Officer is also the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) as defined by the authoritative guidance on segment reporting. The Product Licensing segment is comprised of our Audio and Imaging businesses, which we license through the DTS, HD Radio, and IMAX Enhanced brands. These licenses typically include the delivery of software and/or hardware-based solutions to our customers or to their suppliers. Product Licensing revenue is derived primarily from sales into the home, automotive and mobile markets. The Semiconductor and IP Licensing segment includes our Tessera, Invensas and Invensas Bonding Technologies subsidiaries, which license semiconductor packaging and interconnect technologies and associated intellectual property. Semiconductor and IP Licensing revenue is derived from technology and IP licenses to semiconductor companies, foundries and packaging companies. We have a long history of developing and monetizing next-generation technologies, including chip-scale and multi-chip packaging solutions as well as low-temperature wafer and die bonding solutions. Today, we are actively developing and licensing 3D semiconductor packaging, interconnect and bonding solutions for semiconductors that are used in every day products such as smartphones, tablets, and laptops as well as servers used in datacenters. We also provide engineering services to our customers to assist them in their evaluation and adoption of our technologies including the transition into high volume production. We do not identify or allocate assets by reportable segment, nor does the CODM evaluate reportable segments using discrete asset information. Reportable segments do not record inter-segment revenue and accordingly there are none to report. Although the CODM uses operating income to evaluate reportable segments, operating costs included in one segment may benefit other segments. 32 The following table sets forth our segments revenue, operating expenses and operating income (loss) (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 March 31, 2019 Revenue: Product Licensing segment $ 55,942 $ 44,567 Semiconductor and IP Licensing segment 61,723 12,000 Total revenue 117,665 56,567 Operating expenses: Product Licensing segment 45,166 45,757 Semiconductor and IP Licensing segment 10,169 10,238 Unallocated operating expenses (1) 37,803 30,569 Total operating expenses 93,138 86,564 Operating income (loss): Product Licensing segment 10,776 (1,190 ) Semiconductor and IP Licensing segment 51,554 1,762 Unallocated operating expenses (1) (37,803 ) (30,569 ) Total operating loss $ 24,527 $ (29,997 ) (1) Unallocated operating expenses consist primarily of selling, general and administrative expenses, such as administration, human resources, finance, information technology, corporate development and procurement. These expenses are not allocated because these amounts are not considered in evaluating the operating performance of the Companys business segments. The revenue and operating income amounts in this section have been presented on a basis consistent with GAAP applied at the segment level. Of our $385.8 million in goodwill at March 31, 2020, approximately $378.1 million is allocated to our Product Licensing reporting segment and approximately $7.7 million is allocated to our Semiconductor and IP Licensing reporting segment. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, the unallocated expenses were $37.8 million compared to $30.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019. The increase of $7.2 million was primarily attributable to $3.1 million of costs related to the planned Mergers, an increase of $2.1 million in provision for credit loss expense due primarily to the COVID-19 impact, and an increase of $1.3 million in sales/marketing promotion expense. Product Licensing Segment Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 March 31, 2019 Revenue: Royalty and license fees $ 55,942 $ 44,567 Total revenue 55,942 44,567 Operating expenses: Cost of revenue 1,584 2,207 Research, development and other related costs 23,149 21,123 Litigation 210 245 Amortization 20,223 22,182 Total operating expenses 45,166 45,757 Total operating income $ 10,776 $ (1,190 ) Product Licensing revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was $55.9 million as compared to $44.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, an increase of $11.3 million or 25%. The increase in revenue was driven by higher MG revenue due to the timing and duration of MG contracts up for renewal and executed during the quarter, partially offset by a decrease in royalty revenue from existing arrangements. Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 March 31, 2019 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change Product Licensing billings $ 56,590 $ 60,888 $ (4,298 ) (7 )% 33 The decreases in billings were primarily driven by a decline in billings in the home market, due principally to an expected shift in product cycles in certain game consoles. Due to adoption of Topic 606, we continue to expect greater variability in quarterly and annual revenue in our Product Licensing segment in future periods as a result of the revenue accounting treatment applied to minimum guarantee and fixed fee licensing contracts. Operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2020 were $45.2 million and consisted of cost of revenue of $1.6 million, research, development and other related costs of $23.1 million, litigation costs of $0.2 million and amortization costs of $20.2 million. The decrease of $0.6 million in total operating expenses as compared to $45.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2029 was primarily driven by lower cost of revenue due to less NRE activity and lower amortization expense, partially offset by an increase in R&D cost due to increased headcount and personnel cost in the Perceive subsidiary. The lower amortization was attributable to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized over the past twelve months. Operating income for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was $10.8 million compared to operating loss of $1.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, with the variance due to the reasons stated above. Semiconductor and IP Licensing Segment Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 March 31, 2019 Revenue: Royalty and license fees $ 61,723 $ 12,000 Total revenue 61,723 12,000 Operating expenses: Research, development and other related costs 5,990 5,916 Litigation 1,893 1,045 Amortization 2,286 3,277 Total operating expenses 10,169 10,238 Total operating income (loss) $ 51,554 $ 1,762 Semiconductor and IP Licensing segment revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was $61.7 million as compared to $12.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, an increase of $49.7 million or 414%. The increase in revenue was driven primarily by a litigation settlement reached in March 2020. Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 March 31, 2019 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change Semiconductor and IP Licensing billings $ 56,203 $ 43,414 $ 12,789 29 % The increase in billings was due primarily to the payments from the aforementioned litigation settlement, partially offset by lower billings in other Semiconductor and IP Licensing agreements expiring at the end of 2019. Due to adoption of Topic 606, we anticipate Semiconductor and IP Licensing revenue for 2020 will continue to be significantly impacted due principally to our inability to record further billings as revenue in 2020 and later periods from minimum guarantee and fixed fee licensing contracts in place prior to the start of 2018. Further, we expect greater variability in quarterly and annual revenue in our Semiconductor and IP Licensing segment in future periods as a result of the revenue accounting treatment applied to minimum guarantee and fixed fee licensing contracts, which will necessitate recognizing revenue in the quarter a contract first becomes effective. Operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2020 were $10.2 million and consisted of research, development and other related costs of $6.0 million, litigation costs of $1.9 million and amortization costs of $2.3 million. Operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2020 remained relatively constant as compared to the same period in 2019 as higher litigation costs during the first quarter of 2020 were offset by lower amortization. The lower amortization was attributable to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized over the past twelve months. We expect that litigation expense will continue to be a material portion of the Semiconductor and IP Licensing segments operating expenses in future periods, and may fluctuate significantly in some periods, because of our ongoing legal actions, as 34 described in Part II, Item 1 - Legal Proceedings , and because we may become involved in other litigation from time to time in the future in order to enforce and protect our intellectual property and contract rights. Operating income for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was $51.6 million compared to operating income of $1.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, with the variance due to the reasons stated above. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of (in thousands, except for percentages) March 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 Cash and cash equivalents $ 108,405 $ 74,551 Short-term investments 34,067 46,926 Total cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments $ 142,472 $ 121,477 Percentage of total assets 14 % 12 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 March 31, 2019 Net cash from operating activities $ 32,644 $ 13,821 Net cash from investing activities $ 11,157 $ 8,632 Net cash from financing activities $ (9,947 ) $ (59,589 ) Our primary sources of liquidity and capital resources are our operating cash flows and our investment portfolio. Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $142.5 million at March 31, 2020, an increase of $21.0 million from $121.5 million at December 31, 2019. This increase resulted primarily from $32.6 million in cash generated from operations, which was partially offset by $10.0 million in dividends paid. Cash and cash equivalents were $108.4 million at March 31, 2020, an increase of $33.8 million from $74.6 million at December 31, 2019. Cash flows provided by operations were $32.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020, primarily due to our net income of $18.8 million being further adjusted for non-cash items of depreciation of $1.7 million, amortization of intangible assets of $22.5 million, stock-based compensation expense of $8.0 million and provision for credit loss expense of $2.0 million. These increases were partially offset by a reduction of $2.1 million in deferred income taxes and $19.6 million in changes in operating assets and liabilities. Cash flows provided by operations were $13.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, primarily due to our net loss of $25.4 million being adjusted for non-cash items of depreciation of $1.7 million, amortization of intangible assets of $25.5 million, stock-based compensation expense of $7.6 million and $18.3 million in changes in operating assets and liabilities. These increases were partially offset by a reduction of $14.7 million in deferred income taxes. Net cash provided by investing activities was $11.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020, primarily related to maturities and sales of securities of $11.8 million, partially offset by $0.7 million in capital expenditures. Net cash provided by investing activities was $8.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, primarily related to maturities and sales of securities of $9.5 million, partially offset by $0.9 million in capital expenditures. Net cash used in financing activities was $9.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 principally due to $10.0 million in dividends paid and $3.1 million in repurchases of common stock, partially offset by $3.2 million in proceeds due to the issuance of common stock under our employee stock option programs and employee stock purchase plans. Net cash used in financing activities was $59.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 principally due to $50.0 million in a partial pay-down of debt principal, $9.8 million in dividends paid and $3.1 million in repurchases of common stock, partially offset by $3.4 million in proceeds due to the issuance of common stock under our employee stock option programs and employee stock purchase plans. The primary objectives of our investment activities are to preserve principal and to maintain liquidity while at the same time capturing a market rate of return. To achieve these objectives, we maintain a diversified portfolio of securities including money market funds and debt securities including corporate bonds and notes, municipal bonds and notes, commercial paper, treasury and agency notes and bills and certificates of deposit. We invest excess cash predominantly in high-quality investment grade debt securities with less than three years to maturity. Our marketable debt securities are classified as available-for-sale with credit losses recognized as a credit loss expense and non-credit related unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, recorded in 35 accumulated other comprehensive income or loss. The fair values for our securities are determined based on quoted market prices as of the valuation date and observable prices for similar assets. In the third quarter of 2018, we initiated an equity position in Onkyo Corporation (Onkyo) , a publicly traded company listed on the JAS D AQ market of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Under Topic 321, we measure equity securities with readily determinable market value at fair value and recognize any changes in fair value in net income (loss). We recorded an unrealized loss of approximately $ 0.7 million on this investment in the first quarter of 20 20 , and we have recorded cumulative unrealized losses of $ 3.0 million since we made this investmen t. On July 5, 2019, we sold approximately 2.8 million shares of Onkyo stock (out of a total holding of 7.0 million shares) , and we intend to sell the remaining shares over time depending on market conditions . For available-for-sale debt securities in an unrealized loss position, we first assess whether we intend to sell, or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis. If either of the criteria regarding intent or requirement to sell is met, the security's amortized cost basis is written down to fair value through income. For debt securities available-for-sale that do not meet the aforementioned criteria, we evaluate whether the decline in fair value has resulted from credit losses or other factors. In making this assessment, we consider the extent to which fair value is less than amortized cost, any changes to the rating of the security by a rating agency, and adverse conditions specifically related to the security, among other factors. If this assessment indicates that a credit loss exists, the present value of cash flows expected to be collected from the security are compared to the amortized cost basis of the security. If the present value of cash flows expected to be collected is less than the amortized cost basis, a credit loss exists and an allowance for credit losses is recorded for the credit loss, limited by the amount that the fair value is less than the amortized cost basis. Any impairment that has not been recorded through an allowance for credit losses is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, we did not recognize a provision for credit loss expense related to our AFS debt securities. For the three months ended March 31, 2019, we did not record any impairment charges related to our AFS debt securities. On December 1, 2016, we entered into a Credit Agreement which provided for a $600.0 million seven-year term B loan facility. The Term B Loan Facility matures on November 30, 2023. Upon the closing of the Credit Agreement, we borrowed $600.0 million under the Term B Loan facility. These proceeds were used on December 1, 2016, together with cash and cash equivalents, to finance the acquisition of DTS. The obligations under the Credit Agreement are guaranteed by substantially all of our assets pursuant to the Security Agreement, dated December 1, 2016, among us, Royal Bank of Canada, as collateral agent, and the other pledgors party thereto. On January 23, 2018, we completed a repricing of our debt, reducing the borrowing rate by 75 basis points, and paid down $100.0 million in principal balance. During 2019, we made three voluntary principal payments totaling $150.0 million. At March 31, 2020, $ 344.0 million was outstanding under this loan facility with an interest rate, including amortization of debt issuance costs, of 4.9%. Interest is payable monthly. As the cumulative $250.0 million prepayments of debt principal we made during 2018 and 2019 exceeded the minimum principal payment requirements, we expect to have no further principal payment requirements until maturity of the loan, subject to our expected achievement of a net leverage ratio, as defined in the loan agreement, below 2.0 at the end of each fiscal year end. Because the interest rate on the loan facility is variable, we are subject to variations in our cash flows based on changes in market interest rates. In connection with the planned Mergers, Xperi and TiVo intend to refinance each companys debt on a combined basis upon closing of the transaction, which is currently expected in the second quarter of 2020. To meet this objective, we have secured $1.1 billion of committed debt financing pursuant to a debt commitment letter (the Commitment Letter) dated December 18, 2019, from Bank of America, N.A. and Royal Bank of Canada. On January 3, 2020, Barclays Bank PLC was added as an additional initial lender and an additional joint lead arranger and joint bookrunner and was reallocated a portion of the debt commitments of Bank of America, N.A. and Royal Bank of Canada under the Commitment Letter. In August 2007, our Board of Directors (the Board) authorized a plan to repurchase our outstanding shares of common stock dependent on market conditions, share price and other factors. As of March 31, 2020, the total amount available for repurchase under the plan was $101.4 million. No expiration has been specified for this plan. Since the inception of the plan, and through March 31, 2020, we have repurchased approximately 13.3 million shares of common stock at a total cost of $348.6 million at an average price of $26.25. During the three months ended March 31, 2020, we made no stock repurchases. Since March 2015, we have paid a quarterly dividend of $0.20 per share. We anticipate that all quarterly dividends will be paid out of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. From 2017 through the first quarter of 2020, we generated approximately $484 million of cash flows from operating activities. While we expect to continue to generate cash flows from operating activities for the remainder of 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic presents significant uncertainties to the level of such cash flows as compared to prior years and as compared to our previous forecasts. Currently more than half of our anticipated billings for 2020 are derived from fixed-fee and minimum-guarantee arrangements, primarily from large, well-capitalized customers which we believe somewhat mitigates the risks to our 36 business . We are also taking actions to manage cash flows by reducing discretionary spending and other variable costs, delaying employee hiring, and closely monitoring receivables and payables . We believe that based on current levels of operations and anticipated growth, our cash from operations, together with cash, cash equivalents and investments currently available, will be sufficient to fund our operations, debt service, dividends and stock repurchases and acquisition needs for at least the next twelve months. Poor financial results, unanticipated expenses, unanticipated acquisitions of technologies or businesses or unanticipated strategic investments could give rise to additional financing requirements sooner than we expect. There can be no assurance that equity or debt financing will be available when needed or, if available, that such financing will be on terms satisfactory to us and not dilutive to our then-current stockholders. Contractual Cash Obligations Our operating lease obligations represent aggregate future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable facility and equipment operating leases. For our facilities leases, rent expense charged to operations differs from rent paid because of scheduled rent increases. Rent expense is calculated by amortizing total rental payments on a straight-line basis over the lease term. See Note 13 Leases of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. As of March 31, 2020, we had accrued $74.9 million of unrecognized tax benefits in long-term income taxes payable related to uncertain tax positions, which includes $1.1 million of accrued interest. At this time, we are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of the long-term payments or the amount by which the liability will increase or decrease over time. If we are successful in receiving our Korean withholding tax refund of $66.1 million, net of foreign exchange loss, then $51.0 million of unrecognized tax benefit would be payable to the U.S. tax authorities. See Note 14 - Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2020, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates During the three months ended March 31, 2020, there were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies. See Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail. For a discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates, see Part II, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Form 10-K. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements including the respective expected dates of adoption.