Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the attached unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto, and with our audited financial statements and notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2020 found in the Form 10-K filed by Xperi Holding Corporation on February 26, 2021 (the Form 10-K). This Quarterly Report contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to the safe harbor provisions created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as expects, anticipates, plans, believes, seeks, estimates, could, would, may, intends, targets and similar expressions or variations of such words are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report. The identification of certain statements as forward-looking is not intended to mean that other statements not specifically identified are not forward-looking. All statements other than statements about historical facts are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, statements that relate to our future revenue, product development, demand, acceptance and market share, growth rate, competitiveness, gross margins, levels of research, development and other related costs, expenditures, the outcome or effects of and expenses related to litigation and administrative proceedings related to our patents, our intent to enforce our intellectual property rights, our ability to license our intellectual property, tax expenses, cash flows, our ability to liquidate and recover the carrying value of our investments, our management's plans and objectives for our current and future operations, our plans for quarterly dividends and stock repurchases, our ability to achieve cost savings through the integration of the legacy businesses, the levels of customer spending or research and development activities, general economic conditions, the impact of the COVID-19 (as defined below) pandemic and related events, the impact of the Mergers (as defined below) on our financial condition and results of operations, our plans to separate the combined product and IP licensing businesses, and the sufficiency of financial resources to support future operations and capital expenditures. Although forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report reflect the good faith judgment of our management, such statements can only be based on facts and factors currently known by us. Consequently, forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks, uncertainties, and changes in condition, significance, value and effect, including those discussed under the heading Risk Factors in our annual report on Form 10-K and other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), such as our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our current reports on Form 8-K. Such risks, uncertainties and changes in condition, significance, value and effect could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed herein and in ways not readily foreseeable. Readers are urged not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report and are based on information currently and reasonably known to us. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements in order to reflect any event or circumstance that may arise after the date of this Quarterly Report, other than as required by law. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this Quarterly Report, which attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. As used herein, the Company, we, us and our refer to Xperi when referring to periods prior to June 1, 2020 and Xperi Holding Corporation when referring to periods subsequent to June 1, 2020. Unless specified otherwise, the financial results in this Quarterly Report are those of the Company and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. Business Overview Following consummation of the mergers between Xperi Corporation (Xperi) and TiVo Corporation (TiVo) on June 1, 2020 (the Mergers), Xperi Holding Corporation became the parent company of both Xperi and TiVo. The common stock of both Xperi and TiVo were de-registered after completion of the Mergers. On June 2, 2020, Xperi Holding Corporations common stock, par value $0.001 per share, commenced trading on the Nasdaq Global Select Market (Nasdaq) under the ticker symbol XPER. Xperi was determined to be the accounting acquirer in the Mergers. As a result, the historical financial statements of Xperi for periods prior to the Mergers are considered to be the historical financial statements of Xperi Holding Corporation. Our results of operations include the operations of TiVo after June 1, 2020. We are a leading consumer and entertainment product/solutions licensing company and one of the industrys largest intellectual property (IP) licensing platforms, with a diverse portfolio of media and semiconductor intellectual property and more than 11,000 patents and patent applications worldwide. We invent, develop, and deliver technologies that enable extraordinary experiences. Xperi technologies, delivered via our brands (DTS, HD Radio, IMAX Enhanced, Invensas, TiVo), and by our subsidiary, Perceive Corporation (Perceive), make entertainment more entertaining, and smart devices smarter. Our technologies are integrated into billions of consumer devices, media platforms, and semiconductors worldwide, driving increased value for partners, customers and consumers. We shape how millions of consumers access and experience entertainment content, and our innovations are found in billions of devices and hundreds of millions of interfaces around the 34 globe. Headquartered in Silicon Valley with operations around the world, we have approximately 1,8 0 0 employees and over 30 years of operating experience . We are currently contemplating and may pursue, subject to any required regulatory approvals, a separation of our Product business and IP Licensing business through a tax-efficient transaction, resulting in two independent, publicly traded companies. We are evaluating the optimal timing of the contemplated business separation and currently anticipate that such separation will not be completed earlier than the first half of 2022. COVID-19 Impact Our business and results of operations have been adversely affected by the global COVID-19 pandemic and related events and we expect its impact to continue. Given the ongoing and dynamic nature of the circumstances, it is difficult to predict the full impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our businesses, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to address its adverse impacts fully or effectively. The impact to date has included periods of significant volatility in various markets and industries. The volatility has had, and we anticipate it will continue to have, an adverse effect on our customers and on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and may result in an impairment of our long-lived assets, including goodwill, increased credit losses and impairments of investments in other companies. In particular, the automotive market, as well as the broad consumer electronics industries, have been and may continue to be impacted by the pandemic and/or other events beyond our control, and further volatility could have an additional negative impact on these industries, customers, and our business. In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic and to a lesser extent, U.S. restrictions on trade with certain Chinese customers have and may continue to impact the financial conditions of our customers, who may not be able to satisfy their obligations under our agreements timely or at all. In addition, actions by United States federal, state and foreign governments to address the COVID-19 pandemic, including travel bans, stay-at-home orders and school, business and entertainment venue closures, also had a significant adverse effect on the markets in which we conduct our businesses. COVID-19 poses the risk that our workforce, suppliers, and other partners may be prevented from conducting normal business activities for an indefinite period of time, including due to shutdowns or stay-at-home orders that may be requested or mandated by governmental authorities. We also implemented policies to allow our employees to work remotely as a result of the pandemic as we reviewed processes related to workplace safety, including social distancing and sanitation practices recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic could also cause delays in obtaining new customers and executing renewals and could also impact our business as consumer behavior changes in response to the slowed economic conditions. Furthermore, our ongoing integration efforts following the Mergers have been and may continue to be delayed or interrupted due to the operational challenges and various restrictions and limitations imposed on us as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, which may adversely affect the timing and success of the integration and anticipated benefits of the Mergers. We have been closely monitoring the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on our business, including legislation to mitigate the impact of COVID-19 such as the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act which was enacted in March 2020, and the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 which was enacted in March 2021. Although a significant portion of our anticipated revenue for 2021 is derived from fixed-fee and minimum-guarantee arrangements, primarily from large, well-capitalized customers which we believe somewhat mitigates the risks to our business, our per-unit and variable fees based revenue will continue to be susceptible to the volatility, supply chain disruptions and potential market downturns induced by the COVID-19 pandemic. Although we are unable to predict the full impact and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, we are actively managing our financial expenditures in response to continued uncertainty. Further discussion of the potential impacts on our business from the COVID-19 pandemic is provided under Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors of the Form 10-K. Results of Operations Revenue We generate revenue from the following principal activities. License Agreements We operate in two business segments. In our Product segment, we license our audio, digital radio, imaging, edge-based machine learning and multi-channel video user experience (UX) solutions. In our IP Licensing segment, we license (i) our media patent portfolios (Media IP licensing) to multichannel video programming distributors (MVPDs), OTT video service providers, consumer electronics manufacturers, social media, and other new media companies and (ii) our semiconductor technologies and associated patent portfolios (Semiconductor IP licensing) to memory, sensors, RF component, and foundry 35 companies. We license our technologies and portfolios under three revenue models: ( i ) fixed-fee Media IP licensing, (ii) fixed-fee or minimum guarantee Semiconductor IP or Product licensing, and (iii) per-unit or per-subscriber royalty licenses . Fixed-fee Media IP licensing Our long-term fixed-fee Media IP licensing agreements provide our customers with the rights to future patented technologies over the term of the agreement that are highly interdependent or highly interrelated to the patented technologies provided at the inception of the agreement. We treat these rights as a single performance obligation with revenue recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the fixed-fee license agreement. At times, we enter into license agreements in which a licensee is released from past patent infringement claims and is granted a license to ship an unlimited number of units or for an unlimited number of subscribers over a future period for a fixed fee. In these arrangements, we allocate the transaction price between the release for past patent infringement claims and the future license. As the release from past patent infringement claims is generally satisfied at execution of the agreement, the transaction price allocated to the release from past patent infringement claims is generally recognized in the period the agreement is executed and the amount of transaction price allocated to the future license is recognized ratably over the future license term. Fixed-fee or minimum guarantee Semiconductor IP or Product licensing We enter into Product or Semiconductor IP licenses that have fixed fee or minimum guarantee arrangements, whereby licensees pay a fixed fee for the right to incorporate our technology in the licensee's products over the license term. In arrangements with a minimum guarantee, the fixed fee component corresponds to a minimum number of units or dollars that the customer must produce or pay, with additional per-unit fees for any units or dollars exceeding the minimum. In most cases, the customer pays the fixed license fee in specified installments over the license term. For both fixed fee and minimum guarantee agreements for Semiconductor IP or Product licensing, we recognize the full fixed fee as revenue at the beginning of the license term, when the licensee has the right to use the IP and begins to benefit from the license. If the contract term of a fixed fee or minimum guarantee arrangement is longer than one year, we also consider the scheduled payment arrangements to determine whether a significant financing component exists. In general, if the payment arrangements extend beyond the initial twelve months of the contract, we treat a portion of the payments as a significant financing component. The discount rate used for each arrangement reflects the rate that would be used in a separate financing transaction between us and the licensee at contract inception and takes into account the credit characteristics of the licensee and market interest rates as of the date of the agreement. As such, the amount of fixed fee revenue recognized at the beginning of the license term will be reduced by the calculated financing component. We actively monitor and enforce our IP, including seeking appropriate compensation from customers that have under-reported royalties owed under a license agreement and from third parties that utilize our intellectual property without a license. As a result of these activities, we may, from time to time, recognize revenue from payments resulting from periodic compliance audits of licensees for underreporting royalties incurred in prior periods, as part of a settlement of a patent infringement dispute, or from legal judgments in a license dispute. These recoveries and settlements may cause revenue to be higher than expected during a particular reporting period and such recoveries may not occur in subsequent periods. We recognize revenue from recoveries when a binding agreement has been executed and we conclude collection under that agreement is likely. Per-unit or per-subscriber royalty licenses We recognize revenue from per-unit or per-subscriber royalty licenses in the period in which the licensee's sales or production are estimated to have occurred, which results in an adjustment to revenue when actual sales or production are subsequently reported by the licensee, which is generally in the month or quarter following usage or shipment. We generally recognize revenue from royalty licenses on a per-subscriber per-month model for licenses with service providers and a per-unit shipped or manufactured model for licenses with CE manufacturers and memory, sensors, RF component, and foundry companies. Estimating licensees quarterly royalties prior to receiving the royalty reports requires us to make significant assumptions and judgments related to forecasted trends and growth rates used to estimate quantities shipped by customers, which could have a material impact on the amount of revenue we report on a quarterly basis. Arrangements with Multiple System Operators for the TiVo Service Our arrangements with multiple system operators (MSOs) typically include software customization and set-up services, associated maintenance and support, limited training, post-contract support, TiVo-enabled DVRs, non-DVR STBs and the TiVo service. 36 We have two types of arrangements with MSOs that include technology deployment and engineering services. In instances where we host the TiVo service, non-refundable payments received for customization and set-up services are deferred and recognized as revenue ratably over the hosting term. The related cost of such services is capitalized to the extent it is deemed recoverable and amortized to cost of revenue over the same period as the related TiVo service revenue is recognized. We estimate the stand-alone selling prices for training, DVRs, non-DVR STBs and maintenance and support based on the price charged in stand-alone sales of the promised good or service. The stand-alone selling price for the TiVo service is determined considering the size of the MSO and expected volume of deployment, market conditions, competitive landscape, internal costs and total gross margin objectives. For a term license to the TiVo service, we receive license fees for the hosted TiVo service on either a per-subscriber per-month basis or a fixed fee. We recognize revenue from per-subscriber per-month licenses during the month the TiVo service is provided to the customer and recognize revenue from fixed fee licenses ratably over the license period. In arrangements where we do not host the TiVo service and that include engineering services that are essential to the functionality of the licensed technology or involve significant customization or modification of the software, we recognize revenue as progress toward completion is made using an input method based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to total estimated costs of the project. Estimating project costs requires forecasting costs, tracking progress toward completion and projecting the remaining effort to complete the project. These estimates are reassessed throughout the term of the arrangement, and revisions to estimates are recognized on a cumulative catch-up basis when the changed conditions become known. We generally recognize revenue from license fees for the TiVo service that the Company does not host on a per-subscriber per-month basis due to the recognition constraint on intellectual property usage-based royalties. Subscription Services Subscription services revenue primarily consists of fees to provide customers with access to one or more of our hosted products such as the iGuide IPG, advanced search and recommendations, metadata and analytics products, including routine customer support. We generally receive per-subscriber per-month fees for the iGuide IPG and search and recommendations service and revenue is recorded in the month the customer uses the service. We generally receive a monthly or quarterly fee from our metadata or analytics licenses for the right to use the metadata or access our analytics platform and to receive regular updates. Revenue from our metadata and analytics service is recognized ratably over the subscription period. TiVo-enabled DVRs and non-DVRs and related TiVo Service We sell TiVo-enabled DVRs and non-DVRs and the related service directly to customers through sales programs via the TiVo.com website and license the sale of TiVo-enabled DVRs and non-DVRs through a limited number of retailers. After the initial subscription period, all customers have various pricing options when they renew their subscription. The transaction price allocated to the DVR is recognized as revenue upon shipment to the customer and the transaction price allocated to the TiVo service is recognized as revenue ratably over the service period. Subscription revenue from lifetime subscriptions is recognized ratably over the estimated useful life of the DVR associated with the subscription. The estimated useful life for a DVR depends on a number of assumptions, including but not limited to, customer retention rates, the timing of new product introductions and historical experience. We periodically reassess the estimated useful life of a DVR. When the actual useful life of the DVR materially differs from our estimates, the estimated useful life of the DVR is adjusted, which could result in the recognition of revenue over a longer or shorter period of time. 37 The following table presents our historical operating results for the periods indicated as a percentage of revenue: Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 Revenue: Licensing, services and software 99 % 100 % Hardware 1 Total revenue 100 100 Operating expenses: Cost of licensing, services and software revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization of intangible assets 10 1 Cost of hardware revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization of intangible assets 3 Research, development and other related costs 25 24 Selling, general and administrative 30 31 Depreciation expense 2 2 Amortization expense 24 19 Litigation expense 1 2 Total operating expenses 95 79 Operating income 5 21 Interest expense 5 4 Other income and expense, net (1 ) Income before taxes 18 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes (2 ) 2 Net income 2 % 16 % Total Revenue (in thousands, except for percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change Total revenue $ 221,596 $ 117,665 $ 103,931 88 % The $103.9 million, or 88% increase in total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the same period in the prior year, was primarily due to inclusion of revenue from the results of TiVo operations following the Mergers. Excluding TiVo revenue, legacy Xperi revenue would have decreased due primarily to a decline in revenue from the Semiconductor IP licensing business. Cost of Licensing, Services and Software Revenue, E xcluding Depreciation and Amortization of Intangible Assets Cost of licensing, services and software revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization of intangible assets, consists primarily of employee-related costs, royalties paid to third parties, maintenance costs and an allocation of facilities costs, as well as service center and other expenses related to providing the TiVo Service, non-recurring engineering (NRE) services and our metadata offering. Cost of licensing, services and software revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization of intangible assets, for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was $21.4 million, as compared to $1.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020, an increase of $19.9 million. The increase was due to the inclusion of post-merger TiVo expenses in the first quarter of 2021. We anticipate cost of licensing, services and software revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization of intangible assets, will continue to increase in 2021 when compared to 2020 due to the inclusion of a full year of TiVo operations in our consolidated results. Cost of Hardware Revenue, E xcluding Depreciation and Amortization of Intangible Assets Cost of hardware revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization of intangible assets, includes all product-related costs associated primarily with TiVo-enabled devices, including employee-related costs, warranty costs, order fulfillment costs, certain licensing costs, and an allocation of facilities costs. 38 Cost of hardware revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization of intangible assets, for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was $6.7 million, as compared to $0.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020, an increase of $6.6 million. The increase was due to the inclusion post-merger TiVo expenses in the first quarter of 2021. We anticipate cost of hardware revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization of intangible assets, will continue to increase in 2021 when compared to 2020 primarily due to the inclusion of a full year of TiVo operations in our consolidated results as well as expected growth in sales of hardware products. Research, Development and Other Related Costs Research, development and other related costs (R&D expense) are comprised primarily of employee-related costs, stock-based compensation expense, engineering consulting expenses associated with new product and technology development, product commercialization, quality assurance and testing costs, as well as costs related to patent applications and examinations, reverse engineering, materials, supplies, equipment depreciation and an allocation of facilities costs. All research, development and other related costs are expensed as incurred. R&D expense for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was $55.2 million, as compared to $28.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020, an increase of $26.6 million. The increase was due to the inclusion of post-merger TiVo R&D expenses in the first quarter of 2021. Excluding TiVo expenses, R&D expense would have decreased by approximately $2.5 million, due principally to reduced headcount and personnel costs as a result of cost synergies realized, lower travel related costs as well as reduced spending in materials, supplies, facilities and insurance in the first quarter of 2021. We believe that a significant level of R&D expense will be required for us to remain competitive in the future. We also anticipate that R&D expense will increase in 2021 when compared to 2020 due primarily to due to the inclusion of a full year of TiVo operations in our consolidated results. Selling, General and Administrative Selling expenses consist primarily of compensation and related costs for sales and marketing personnel engaged in sales and licensee support, reverse engineering personnel and services, marketing programs, public relations, promotional materials, travel, trade show expenses, and stock-based compensation expense. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and related costs for general management, information technology, finance personnel, legal fees and expenses, facilities costs, stock-based compensation expense, and professional services. Our general and administrative expenses, other than facilities-related expenses, are not allocated to other expense line items. Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2021 were $67.4 million, as compared to $36.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020, an increase of $30.8 million. The increase was due principally to the inclusion of TiVo expenses in the first quarter of 2021. Excluding TiVo expenses, SG&A expenses would have decreased by approximately $1.6 million, driven by a decrease in provision for credit losses, lower sales/marketing promotion expenses and travel and entertainment costs, partially offset by post-merger severance and retention costs recorded in the first quarter of 2021. We anticipate SG&A expenses will increase in 2021 when compared to 2020 due principally to the inclusion of a full year of TiVo operations in our consolidated results. Depreciation Expense Depreciation expense for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was $5.7 million, as compared to $1.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020, an increase of $4.0 million. The increase was primarily attributable to depreciation expense on TiVo fixed assets added through the Mergers in June 2020. We anticipate depreciation expense will continue to increase in 2021 as compared to 2020 as a result of the inclusion of the full year effect of TiVos assets after the Mergers. Amortization Expense Amortization expense for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was $52.2 million, as compared to $22.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020, an increase of $29.7 million. The increase was primarily attributable to amortization of intangible assets recorded in connection with the Mergers in June 2020, and secondarily due to intangible assets acquired in the fourth quarter of 2020. 39 With the Mergers, we anticipate that amortization expense will continue to be a significant expense since we acquired approximately $878 million in intangible assets which will be amortized over the next several years. See Note 8 Goodwill and Identified Intangible Assets in the N otes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information . Litigation Expense Litigation expense for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was $2.5 million, as compared to $2.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020, an increase of $0.4 million. The increase was primarily due to inclusion of post-merger TiVo litigation expenses, partially offset by reduced case activity. In 2019 and in 2020 prior to the Mergers, TiVos litigation expenses were significantly higher than Xperis litigation expenses in the same periods. We expect that litigation expense will continue to be a material portion of our operating expenses and, as a result of the Mergers, will increase significantly in future periods. Litigation expense may fluctuate between periods because of planned or ongoing litigation, as described in Part II, Item 1 Legal Proceedings , and because of litigation planned for or initiated from time to time in the future in order to enforce and protect our intellectual property and contract rights. Upon expiration of our customers licenses, if those licenses are not renewed, litigation may become necessary to secure payment of reasonable royalties for the use of our patented technology. If we plan for or initiate such litigation, our future litigation expenses may increase. Stock-based Compensation Expense The following table sets forth our stock-based compensation (SBC) expense for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020 (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 Cost of licensing, services and software revenue $ 323 $ Research, development and other related costs 4,347 3,036 Selling, general and administrative 8,549 4,951 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 13,219 $ 7,987 Stock-based compensation awards include employee stock options, restricted stock awards and units, and employee stock plan purchases. The increase in SBC expense for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the corresponding period in 2020, was primarily a result of including incremental expense from assumed TiVo stock awards from the Mergers and increases in stock award grants as a result of the Mergers. Interest Expense Interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was $11.3 million, as compared to $4.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020. The increase in interest expense was primarily a result of a higher average debt balance as compared to the first quarter of 2020 as we entered into a new term loan of $1,050 million on June 1, 2020 to refinance the indebtedness of the combined companies in connection with the Mergers. We anticipate interest expense will increase in 2021 when compared to 2020 as a result of a full year of the higher debt balance and amortization of debt discount and issuance costs. Other Income and expense, Net Other income and expense, net, for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was $1.4 million, as compared to $0.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020. Other income and expense, net, in the first quarter of 2021 was higher than the corresponding period in 2020 due principally to recognition of an unrealized loss of $0.7 million on our equity investment in Onkyo Corporation common stock in the first quarter of 2020 . Provision for Income Taxes With certain exceptions, our provision for income taxes is based on our worldwide estimated annualized effective tax rate. For jurisdictions in which a loss is forecast but no benefit can be realized for those losses, the tax is estimated separately. Additionally, we record certain taxes measured when required. Due to our significant net operating loss carryforwards and a 40 valuation allowance applied against a significant portion of our deferred tax assets, foreign withholding taxes are generally the primary driver of income tax expense and the primary reason for cash tax payments of income taxes . For the three months ended March 31, 2021, our negative effective tax rate is based on the projected 2021 GAAP U.S. pretax loss and is significantly less than the 21% U.S. federal tax rate . The low effective tax rate is the result of the most significant components of income tax expense, primarily driven by foreign withholding taxes and BEAT. The computed negative effective tax rate is applied to the year-to-date U.S. profit resulting in an income tax benefit for the quarter ended March 31, 2021 . For the three months ended March 31, 2021, we recorded an income tax benefit of $4.0 million on pretax income of $0.5 million, which resulted in an effective tax rate of (786.4)%. The income tax benefit for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was primarily related to foreign withholding taxes, U.S. federal base erosion and anti-abuse tax, and unrealized foreign exchange loss from prior year South Korea refund claims. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, we recorded an income tax expense of $2.1 million on pretax income of $20.8 million, which resulted in an effective tax rate of 9.9%. The income tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was primarily related to tax expense from operating income, increase in certain non-deductible expenses, shortfalls from stock-based compensation, increase in valuation allowance on certain deferred tax assets, and unrealized foreign exchange losses from the prior year South Korea refund claim, offset by a deduction from foreign-derived intangible income and the release of unrecognized tax benefits due to a lapse in the statute of limitations. The year-over-year decrease in income tax expense for the quarter ended March 31, 2021 is largely attributable to the application of a negative effective tax rate to year-to-date U.S. pre-tax income. The need for a valuation allowance requires an assessment of both positive and negative evidence when determining whether it is more-likely-than-not that deferred tax assets are recoverable. Such assessment is required on a jurisdiction-by-jurisdiction basis. In making such assessment, significant weight is given to evidence that can be objectively verified. After considering both positive and negative evidence to assess the recoverability of our net deferred tax assets, we determined that it was not more-likely-than-not that we would realize our federal, certain state and certain foreign deferred tax assets given the substantial amount of tax attributes that will remain unutilized to offset forecasted future tax liabilities. In the future, we may release our deferred tax asset valuation allowance associated with our federal, state or foreign deferred tax assets depending on achievement of future profitability in relevant jurisdictions, or implementing tax planning strategies that enable us to utilize deferred tax assets. There can be no assurance that we will generate profits or implement tax strategies in future periods enabling us to fully realize our deferred tax assets. The timing of recording a deferred tax asset valuation allowance or the reversal of such valuation allowance is subject to objective and subjective factors that cannot be known in advance. We intend to continue maintaining a full valuation allowance on our federal deferred tax assets until there is sufficient evidence to support the reversal of all or some of a portion of these allowances. However, given our current earning and anticipated future earnings, we believe that there is a reasonable possibility that within the next 12 months, sufficient positive evidence may become available to allow us to reach a conclusion that a significant portion of our federal valuation allowance will no longer be needed. Release of the valuation allowance would result in the recognition of certain federal deferred tax assets and a decrease to income tax expense for the period the release is recorded. Segment Operating Results We operate in two reportable segments: (1) Product and (2) IP Licensing. There are certain corporate overhead costs that are not allocated to these reportable segments because these operating amounts are not considered in evaluating the operating performance of our business segments. Our Chief Executive Officer has been determined to be the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) in consideration with the authoritative guidance on segment reporting. The Product segment consists primarily of licensing our internally-developed audio, digital radio, imaging, edge-based machine learning and multi-channel video user experience (UX) solutions. Audio, digital radio, imaging solutions and edge-based machine learning include the delivery of software and/or hardware-based solutions to our consumer electronics (CE) customers, automotive manufacturers or their supply chain partners. UX products and services revenue is primarily derived from multi-channel video service providers and CE manufacturers, licensing the TiVo service and selling TiVo-enabled devices like the Stream 4K, Personalized Content Discovery, enriched Metadata, viewership data and advertising. The IP Licensing segment consists primarily of licensing our innovations to leading companies in the media and semiconductor industries. Licensing arrangements include access to one or more of our foundational patent portfolios and may also include access to some of our industry-leading technologies and proven know-how. In media, our licensees include multichannel video programming distributors, OTT video service providers, consumer electronics manufacturers, social media and other new media companies. In semiconductor, our licensees include memory, sensors, RF component, and foundry companies. 41 We do not identify or allocate assets by reportable segment, nor does the CODM evaluate reportable segments using discrete asset information. Reportable segments do not record inter-segment revenue and accordingly there are none to report. Although the CODM uses operating income to evaluate reportable segments, operating costs included in one segment may benefit other segments. The following table sets forth our segments revenue, operating expenses and operating income (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 Revenue: Product segment $ 123,582 $ 55,942 IP Licensing segment 98,014 61,723 Total revenue 221,596 117,665 Operating expenses: Product segment 108,563 46,236 IP Licensing segment 33,567 10,295 Unallocated operating expenses (1) 69,067 36,607 Total operating expenses 211,197 93,138 Operating income: Product segment 15,019 9,706 IP Licensing segment 64,447 51,428 Unallocated operating expenses (1) (69,067 ) (36,607 ) Total operating income $ 10,399 $ 24,527 (1) Unallocated operating expenses consist primarily of selling, marketing, general and administrative expenses, including administration, human resources, finance, information technology, corporate development and procurement. These expenses are not allocated because these amounts are not considered in evaluating the operating performance of the Companys business segments. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, the unallocated operating expenses were $69.1 million, compared to $36.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020. The increase of $32.5 million was due principally to the inclusion of TiVo expenses and post-merger severance and retention costs recorded in the first quarter of 2021, partially offset by a decrease in provision for credit losses, lower sales/marketing promotion expenses and travel and entertainment costs. The revenue and operating income amounts in this section have been presented on a basis consistent with GAAP applied at the segment level. Of our $847.0 million in goodwill at March 31, 2021, approximately $523.8 million was allocated to our Product segment and approximately $323.2 million was allocated to our IP Licensing segment. Product Segment Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 Total revenue $ 123,582 $ 55,942 Operating expenses: Total cost of revenue 27,986 1,584 Research, development and other related costs 47,998 22,847 Litigation 1,090 210 Depreciation 3,794 1,372 Amortization 27,695 20,223 Total operating expenses 108,563 46,236 Total operating income $ 15,019 $ 9,706 42 Product revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was $123.6 million as compared to $55.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020, an increase of $67.6 million. The increase was primarily attributable to the inclusion of TiVo product revenue, partially offset by a decrease in revenue from minimum guarantee (MG) contracts executed during the first quarter of 2021 as compared to first quarter of 2020. Operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2021 were $108.6 million, as compared to $46.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020, an increase of $62.4 million. The increase was primarily due to the inclusion of TiVo Product expenses, partially offset by merger-related cost synergies. Operating income in the three months ended March 31, 2021 was $15.0 million compared to operating income of $9.7 million in the three months ended March 31, 2020, with the variance due to the reasons stated above. IP Licensing Segment Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 Total revenue $ 98,014 $ 61,723 Operating expenses: Total cost of revenue 146 Research, development and other related costs 7,225 5,759 Litigation 1,443 1,893 Depreciation 253 357 Amortization 24,500 2,286 Total operating expenses 33,567 10,295 Total operating income $ 64,447 $ 51,428 IP Licensing revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was $98.0 million as compared to $61.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020, an increase of $36.3 million. The increase was primarily attributable to the inclusion of TiVo IP Licensing revenue, partially offset by a decline in revenue from the Semiconductor IP licensing business. Operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2021 were $33.6 million, as compared to $10.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020, an increase of $23.3 million. The increase was primarily due to the inclusion of TiVo IP Licensing expenses, partially offset by merger-related cost synergies. In 2019 and in 2020, prior to the Mergers, TiVos litigation expenses were significantly higher than Xperis litigation expenses in the same periods. We expect that litigation expense will continue to be a material portion of our operating expenses and may fluctuate between periods because of planned or ongoing litigation, as described in Part II, Item 1 Legal Proceedings , in this report, and because of litigation planned for or initiated from time to time in the future in order to enforce and protect our intellectual property and contract rights. Operating income for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was $64.4 million compared to operating income of $51.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020, with the variance due to the reasons stated above. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of (in thousands, except for percentages) March 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 Cash and cash equivalents $ 134,759 $ 170,188 Short-term investments 102,145 86,947 Total cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments $ 236,904 $ 257,135 Percentage of total assets 9 % 10 % 43 Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 Net cash from operating activities $ 26,729 $ 32,644 Net cash from investing activities $ (17,387 ) $ 11,157 Net cash from financing activities $ (44,033 ) $ (9,947 ) Our primary sources of liquidity and capital resources are our operating cash flows and our short-term investments. Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $236.9 million at March 31, 2021, a decrease of $20.2 million from $257.1 million at December 31, 2020. This decrease resulted primarily from $5.3 million in dividends paid, $32.4 million in repurchases of common stock and $13.1 million in repayment of the 2020 Term B Loan Facility, which was partially offset by $26.7 million in cash generated from operations and $6.7 million in proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our employee stock grant programs and employee stock purchase plans. Cash and cash equivalents totaled $134.8 million at March 31, 2021, a decrease of $35.4 million from $170.2 million at December 31, 2020. Cash flows provided by operations were $26.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, primarily due to our net income of $4.5 million being further adjusted for non-cash items of depreciation of $5.7 million, amortization of intangible assets of $52.2 million and stock-based compensation expense of $13.2 million. These increases were partially offset by $52.8 million in changes in operating assets and liabilities including payment during the quarter of employee bonuses earned in 2020. Cash flows provided by operations were $32.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020, primarily due to our net income of $18.8 million being further adjusted for non-cash items of depreciation of $1.7 million, amortization of intangible assets of $22.5 million, stock-based compensation expense of $8.0 million and provision for credit loss expense of $2.0 million. These increases were partially offset by a reduction of $2.1 million in deferred income taxes and $19.6 million in changes in operating assets and liabilities. Net cash used in investing activities was $17.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, primarily related to purchases of short-term investments of $42.5 million and capital expenditures of $1.8 million, partially offset by maturities and sales of securities of $26.9 million. Net cash provided by investing activities was $11.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020, primarily related to maturities and sales of securities of $11.8 million, partially offset by $0.7 million in capital expenditures. Net cash used in financing activities was $44.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 principally due to $13.1 million in repayment of indebtedness, $5.3 million in dividends paid, and $32.4 million in repurchases of common stock, partially offset by $6.7 million in proceeds due to the issuance of common stock under our employee stock grant programs and employee stock purchase plans. Net cash used in financing activities was $9.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 principally due to $10.0 million in dividends paid and $3.1 million in repurchases of common stock, partially offset by $3.2 million in proceeds due to the issuance of common stock under our employee stock grant programs and employee stock purchase plans. The primary objectives of our investment activities are to preserve principal and to maintain liquidity while at the same time capturing a market rate of return. To achieve these objectives, we maintain a diversified portfolio of securities including money market funds and debt securities including corporate bonds and notes, municipal bonds and notes, commercial paper, treasury and agency notes and bills and certificates of deposit. We invest excess cash predominantly in high-quality investment grade debt securities with less than three years to maturity. Our marketable debt securities are classified as available-for-sale (AFS) with credit losses recognized as a credit loss expense and non-credit related unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss. The fair values for our securities are determined based on quoted market prices as of the valuation date or observable prices for similar assets. For AFS debt securities in an unrealized loss position, we first assess whether we intend to sell, or it is more-likely-than-not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis. If either of the criteria regarding intent or requirement to sell is met, the security's amortized cost basis is written down to fair value through income. For AFS debt securities that do not meet the aforementioned criteria, we evaluate whether the decline in fair value has resulted from credit losses or other factors. In making this assessment, we consider the extent to which fair value is less than amortized cost, any changes to the credit rating of the security by a rating agency, and adverse conditions specifically related to the security, among other factors. If this assessment indicates that a credit loss exists, the present value of cash flows expected to be collected from the security are compared to the amortized cost basis of the security. If the present value of cash flows expected to be collected 44 is less than the amortized cost basis, a credit loss exists and an allowance for credit losses is recorded for the credit loss, limited by the amount that the fair value is less than the amortized cost basis. Any impairment that has not been recorded through an allowance for credit losses is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss. W e did not recognize a provision for credit loss es related to our AFS debt securities in the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively . On December 1, 2016, we entered into a Credit Agreement with Royal Bank of Canada (RBC) which provided for a $600.0 million seven-year term B loan facility. The Term B Loan Facility was scheduled to mature on November 30, 2023. During 2019 we made three voluntary principal payments totaling $150.0 million, and upon consummation of the Mergers on June 1, 2020, we repaid the full remaining balance of $344.0 million under the Credit Agreement. In addition, upon consummation of the Mergers on June 1, 2020, we repaid $734.6 million of assumed TiVo debt with the proceeds from a new borrowing of $1,050 million discussed below. On June 1, 2020, in connection with the consummation of the Mergers, we entered into a Credit Agreement (the 2020 Credit Agreement) by and among us, the lenders party thereto and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent and collateral agent. The 2020 Credit Agreement provides for a five-year senior secured term loan B facility in an aggregate principal amount of $1,050 million (the 2020 Term B Loan Facility). The interest rate applicable to loans outstanding under the 2020 Term B Loan Facility is equal to, at our option, either (i) a base rate plus a margin of 3.00% per annum or (ii) LIBOR plus a margin of 4.00% per annum. Commencing on September 30, 2020, the 2020 Term B Loan Facility will amortize in quarterly installments equal to (i) with respect to repayments occurring on or prior to June 1, 2023, 1.25% of the original principal amount of the 2020 Term B Loan Facility and (ii) with respect to repayments occurring after June 1, 2023 and prior to June 1, 2025, 1.875% of the original principal amount of the 2020 Term B Loan Facility, with the balance payable on the maturity date of the 2020 Term B Loan Facility (in each case subject to adjustment for prepayments). The 2020 Term B Loan Facility will mature on June 1, 2025. Upon the closing of the 2020 Credit Agreement, we borrowed $1,050 million under the 2020 Term B Loan Facility. Net proceeds were used on June 1, 2020, together with cash and cash equivalents, to repay existing indebtedness of the combined Company, including the aforementioned Term B Loan Facility with RBC. We commenced repaying quarterly installments under the 2020 Term B Loan Facility in the third quarter of 2020. The agreement permits prepayment of principal without penalty and on December 31, 2020, we elected to make a voluntary principal payment of $150.0 million. At March 31, 2021, $828.5 million was outstanding under the 2020 Term B Loan Facility with an interest rate, including amortization of debt discount and issuance costs, of 5.2%. Interest is payable monthly. Under the existing loan agreements, we have future minimum principal payments for our debt of $39.4 million for the remainder of 2021, $52.5 million, $72.2 million and $78.8 million in 2022, 2023 and 2024, respectively, with the remaining principal balance due in 2025. We are obligated to pay a portion of excess cash flow on an annual basis beginning March 31, 2022 based on certain ratios and our excess cash flow generated for the immediately preceding calendar year as well as for any litigation settlements subsequent to the Mergers. The voluntary principal payment described above may be offset against any obligated payments due as of March 31, 2022. The 2020 Term B Loan Facility contains customary covenants, and as of March 31, 2021, we were in full compliance with such covenants. In August 2007, Xperis Board of Directors authorized a plan to repurchase Xperis outstanding shares of common stock dependent on market conditions, share price and other factors. This authorization was terminated upon closing of the Mergers. On June 12, 2020, our Board of Directors authorized a new stock repurchase program (the new plan) providing for the repurchase of up to $150.0 million of our common stock dependent on market conditions, share price and other factors. Since the inception of the plan, and through March 31, 2021, we have repurchased approximately 6.0 million shares of common stock at a total cost of $95.1 million at an average price of $15.87. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, our repurchases totaled $25.0 million. As of March 31, 2021, the total remaining amount available for repurchase was $54.9 million. On April 22, 2021, our Board of Directors authorized an additional $100.0 million of purchases, increasing the current total available balance to $154.9 million as of such date. We may continue to execute authorized repurchases from time to time under the new program. In April 2021, our Board of Directors authorized payment of a quarterly dividend of $0.05 per share, to be paid in June 2021. We anticipate that all quarterly dividends will be paid out of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. From 2018 through the first quarter of 2021, we generated approximately $759 million of cash flows from operating activities. While we expect to continue to generate cash flows from operating activities for the remainder of 2021, the COVID-19 pandemic continues to present uncertainties to the level of such cash flows as compared to prior years. Additionally, integration of the two legacy businesses post-merger and transaction costs relating to the contemplated separation of the two businesses will impact operating cash flow for 2021. We have taken actions to manage cash flows by reducing discretionary spending and other variable costs, delaying employee hiring, and closely monitoring receivables and payables. We believe that based on current levels of operations and anticipated growth, our cash from operations, together with cash, cash equivalents and investments currently available, will be sufficient to fund our operations, debt service, dividends, stock 45 repurchases and acquisition needs for at least the next twelve months. Poor financial results, unanticipated expenses, unanticipated acquisitions of technologies or businesses or unanticipated strategic investments could give rise to additional financing requirements sooner than we expect. There can be no assurance that equity or debt financing will be available when needed or, if available, that such financing will be on terms satisfactory to us and not dilutive to our then-current stockholders. Contractual Obligations For information about our contractual obligations, see Contractual Obligations in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. Other than the principal payment of $13.1 million made by us under the 2020 Term B Loan Facility in March 2021, our contractual obligations have not changed materially since December 31, 2020. As of March 31, 2021, we had accrued $96.0 million of unrecognized tax benefits in long-term income taxes payable related to uncertain tax positions, which includes $3.1 million of accrued interest and penalties. At this time, we are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of the long-term payments or the amount by which the liability will increase or decrease over time. If we are successful in receiving our South Korean withholding tax refunds of $116.8 million, including interest and foreign exchange gain, then $63.2 million of unrecognized tax benefit would be payable to the U.S. tax authorities. Refer to Note 15 Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2021, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates During the three months ended March 31, 2021, there were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies. See Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail. For a discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates, see Part II, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Form 10-K. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements including the respective expected dates of adoption.