Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion is intended to promote understanding of the results of operations and financial condition and should be read in conjunction with the attached unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto, and with our audited financial statements and notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2022 found in the Form 10-K filed by Xperi Inc. on March 3, 2023 (the Form 10-K). This Quarterly Report contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to the safe harbor provisions created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as expects, anticipates, plans, believes, seeks, estimates, could, would, may, intends, targets and similar expressions or variations of such words are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report. The identification of certain statements as forward-looking is not intended to mean that other statements not specifically identified are not forward-looking. All statements other than statements about historical facts are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, statements that relate to our future revenue, product development, demand, acceptance and market share, growth rate, competitiveness, gross margins, levels of research, development and other related costs, expenditures, the outcome or effects of and expenses related to litigation and administrative proceedings related to our patents, our intent to enforce our intellectual property rights, our ability to license our intellectual property, tax expenses, cash flows, our ability to liquidate and recover the carrying value of our investments, our managements plans and objectives for our current and future operations, our plans for quarterly dividends and stock repurchases, the levels of customer spending or research and development activities, general economic conditions, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and related events, the impact of any acquisitions on our financial condition and results of operations, and the sufficiency of financial resources to support future operations and capital expenditures. Although forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report reflect the good faith judgment of our management, such statements can only be based on facts and factors currently known by us. Consequently, forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks, uncertainties, and changes in condition, significance, value and effect, including those discussed under the heading Risk Factors in our annual report on Form 10-K and other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), such as our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our current reports on Form 8-K. Such risks, uncertainties and changes in condition, significance, value and effect could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed herein and in ways not readily foreseeable. Readers are urged not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report and are based on information currently and reasonably known to us. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements in order to reflect any event or circumstance that may arise after the date of this Quarterly Report, other than as required by law. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this Quarterly Report, which attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Business Overview In June 2020, Xperi Holding Corporation (Xperi Holding, Adeia, or the Former Parent) announced plans to separate into two independent publicly-traded companies (the Separation), one comprising its intellectual property (IP) licensing business and one comprising its product business (Xperi Product). On October 1, 2022, the Former Parent completed the Separation (the Spin-Off) through a pro-rata distribution (the Distribution) of all of the outstanding common stock of its product-related business (Xperi, we, our, or the Company) to the stockholders of record of Xperi Holding as of the close of business on September 21, 2022, the record date (the Record Date) for the Distribution. Each Xperi Holding stockholder of record received four shares of Xperi common stock, $0.001 par value, for every ten shares of Xperi Holding common stock, $0.001 par value, held by such stockholder as of the close of business on the Record Date. As a result of the Distribution, Xperi became an independent, publicly-traded company and its common stock is listed under the symbol XPER on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). In connection with the Separation and the Distribution, our Former Parent was renamed and continues as Adeia Inc. and also changed its stock symbol to ADEA on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. We are a leading consumer and entertainment technology company. We believe we create extraordinary experiences at home and on the go for millions of consumers around the world, elevating content and how audiences connect with it in a way that is more intelligent, immersive and personal. Powering smart devices, connected cars, entertainment experiences and more, we have created a unified ecosystem that reaches highly engaged consumers, uncovering significant new business opportunities, now and in the future. Our technologies are integrated into consumer devices and media platforms worldwide, driving increased value for partners, customers and consumers. We operate in one reportable business segment and currently group our business into four categories based on the markets served: Pay-TV, Consumer Electronics, Connected Car and Media Platform. 26 Headquartered in Silicon Valley with operations around the world, we have approximately 2,100 employees and more than 35 years of operating experience. COVID-19 Impact The COVID-19 pandemic has had, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on our business. The impact to date has included periods of significant volatility in markets we serve, in particular the automotive and broad consumer electronics markets. Additionally, the pandemic has caused some challenges and delays in acquiring new customers and executing license renewals. These factors have negatively impacted our financial condition and results of operations, contributed to an impairment of our long-lived assets, including goodwill, and may result in increased credit losses and impairments of long-lived assets and investments in other companies. Our operations, particularly per-unit and variable-fee based revenue, will continue to be susceptible to the volatility, labor shortages, supply chain constraints, high energy prices and inflation, and potential market downturns precipitated by the COVID-19 pandemic as well as the current challenging macroeconomic environment. Basis of Presentation Our condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States (U.S.) and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). During the three months ended September 30, 2022, all of the assets and liabilities of the Xperi Product business had been transferred to a legal entity (the Transfer) under the common control of Xperi. Subsequent to this Transfer and through December 31, 2022, our financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared on a consolidated basis and include the financial statements of Xperi and its subsidiaries in which Xperi has a controlling financial interest. All intercompany balances and transactions are eliminated in consolidation. Prior to the Transfer, the financial statements and accompanying notes of the Xperi Product business were prepared on a combined basis and were derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of the Former Parent as we were not historically held by a single legal entity. For a detailed discussion of the basis of presentation, refer to Note 1 The Company and Basis of Presentation of Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Results of Operations Revenue We derive the majority of our revenue from licensing our technology and solutions to customers. For our revenue recognition policy including descriptions of revenue-generating activities, refer to Note 3 Revenue of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table presents our historical operating results for the periods indicated as a percentage of revenue: 27 Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Revenue: 100 % 100 % Operating expenses: Cost of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization of intangible assets 22 23 Research and development 43 42 Selling, general and administrative 45 42 Depreciation expense 3 5 Amortization expense 12 12 Impairment of long-lived assets 1 Total operating expenses 126 124 Operating loss (26 ) (24 ) Other income, net Loss before taxes (26 ) (24 ) (Benefit from) provision for income taxes 2 Net loss (26 )% (26 )% Revenue (in thousands, except for percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change Revenue $ 126,839 $ 118,888 $ 7,951 7 % The $8.0 million, or 7% increase in revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to the same period in the prior year, was primarily driven by an increase in minimum guarantee (MG) revenue in Consumer Electronics due to new and renewed MG contracts executed during the first quarter of 2023, an increase in Media Platform revenue driven by growth in monetization and contribution from Vewd (acquired in July 2022), and an increase in Connected Car revenue driven by continued growth from the DTS AutoStage and DTS AutoSense solutions. These increases were partially offset by overall declines in Pay TV, as declines in legacy guide and DVR platform revenue were somewhat offset by increases in IPTV solutions. Cost of Revenue, Excluding Depreciation and Amortization of Intangible Assets Cost of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization of intangible assets, consists primarily of employee-related costs, royalties paid to third parties, hardware product-related costs, maintenance costs and an allocation of facilities costs, as well as service center and other expenses related to providing our technology solution offerings and non-recurring engineering (NRE) services. Cost of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization of intangible assets, for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $27.8 million, as compared to $27.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, an increase of $0.4 million primarily attributable to higher delivery costs related to increased sales in the first quarter of 2023. Research and Development Research, development and other related costs (R&D expense) are comprised primarily of employee-related costs, stock-based compensation expense, engineering consulting expenses associated with new product and technology development, product commercialization, quality assurance and testing costs, as well as costs related to patent applications and examinations, reverse engineering, materials, supplies, and an allocation of facilities costs. All research, development and other related costs are expensed as incurred. R&D expense for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $54.9 million as compared to $50.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, an increase of $4.7 million. The increase was primarily due to employees hired in connection with the Vewd Acquisition in July 2022, as well as increased stock-based compensation expense in the first quarter of 2023. Selling, General and Administrative 28 Selling expenses consist primarily of compensation and related costs for sales and marketing personnel engaged in sales and licensee support, marketing programs, public relations, promotional materials, travel, trade show expenses, and stock-based compensation expense. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and related costs for general management, information technology, finance personnel, legal fees and expenses, facilities costs, stock-based compensation expense, and professional services. Our general and administrative expenses, other than facilities-related expenses, are not allocated to other expense line items. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2023, were $57.8 million, as compared to $49.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, an increase of $7.9 million. The increase was primarily due to an increase in stock-based compensation, and secondarily due to increases in outside services and personnel related expenses in the first quarter of 2023. Depreciation Expense Depreciation expense for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $4.1 million, as compared to $5.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, a decrease of $1.5 million. The decrease was primarily due to certain fixed assets becoming fully depreciated during 2022. Amortization Expense Amortization expense for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $14.8 million and remains consistent as compared to the same period in 2022. As a result of previous mergers and acquisitions, we anticipate that amortization expenses will continue to be a significant expense over the next several years. See Note 8 Intangible Assets, Net of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail. Stock-based Compensation The following table sets forth our stock-based compensation (SBC) expense for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Cost of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization of intangible assets $ 792 $ 625 Research and development 5,551 5,099 Selling, general and administrative 9,625 2,913 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 15,968 $ 8,637 Stock-based compensation awards include restricted stock awards and units, employee stock plan purchases and employee stock options. The increases in SBC expense for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to the corresponding period in 2022, was primarily a result of granting restricted stock awards and units to an increased number of employees resulting from the Vewd Acquisition and certain insourcing activity, and secondarily due to incremental compensation cost recognized from the conversion of employee equity awards in connection with the Spin-Off. In addition, for the three months ended March 31, 2022, $2.5 million of stock-based compensation expense was recognized in operating results as part of the corporate and shared functional employees expenses allocation. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets As a result of consolidating our global real estate footprint and decisions to vacate and sublease certain offices following the Spin-Off, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of $1.1 million to reduce the carrying amount of certain operating lease right-of-use (ROU) assets and property and equipment, including leasehold improvements, during the three months ended March 31, 2023. We determined that we may not be able to fully recover the carrying amount of the leased offices due to a change in the manner in which the offices are being used, a significant decrease in the expected market price of the leased asset, and expected delays in subleasing the space based on the current real estate leasing market. We expect additional impairment charges related to operating lease ROU assets in the remainder of 2023 based on current plans to reduce our real estate footprint. 29 We did not record any asset impairment charge for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Other Income, Net Other income, net, for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $0.4 million, as compared to other income, net, of $0.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Other income, net, was lower in 2023 principally due to the interest expense on debt incurred in connection with the Vewd Acquisition discussed below in Liquidity and Capital Resources, partially offset by an increase in interest income from significant financing components from revenue contracts in the first quarter of 2023. (Benefit from) Provision for Income Taxes For the three months ended March 31, 2023, we recorded an income tax benefit of $0.3 million on a pretax loss of $33.2 million, which resulted in an effective tax rate of 0.9%. The income tax benefit was primarily related to foreign withholding taxes, partially offset by U.S. federal income taxes and state income taxes. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, we recorded an income tax expense of $2.1 million on a pretax loss of $28.4 million, which resulted in an effective tax rate of (7.3)%. The income tax expense was primarily related to foreign withholding taxes, U.S. federal taxes, and state income taxes. The year-over-year increase in income tax benefit for the quarter ended March 31, 2023 is largely attributable to the application of a positive effective tax rate to the March 31, 2023 year-to-date pre-tax loss. Our income tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was calculated on a separate return basis as if we would file our tax return for the full twelve months of 2022. However, activities for periods prior to the October 1, 2022 Separation Date are generally reported on U.S. income tax returns filed by our Former Parent. Because of this, income tax expense presented in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations for periods prior to the Separation is not necessarily representative of the taxes that may arise in the future when we file our income tax returns independent from the Former Parent's returns. In the future, under the Tax Matters Agreement, our Former Parent may utilize certain of our tax attributes generated during pre-Separation periods to reduce its tax liability for tax years ended December 31, 2022 and earlier. If our Former Parent should use such attributes, this would require an adjustment to our tax accounts. The need for a valuation allowance requires an assessment of both positive and negative evidence when determining whether it is more-likely-than-not that deferred tax assets are recoverable. Such assessment is required on a jurisdiction-by-jurisdiction basis. In making such assessment, significant weight is given to evidence that can be objectively verified. After considering both positive and negative evidence to assess the recoverability of our net deferred tax assets, we determined that it was unlikely that we would realize our federal, certain state and certain foreign deferred tax assets given the substantial amount of tax attributes that will remain unutilized to offset reversing deferred tax liabilities. We intend to continue maintaining a full valuation allowance on our federal deferred tax assets until there is sufficient evidence to support the reversal of all or some portion of these allowances. Release of the valuation allowance would result in the recognition of certain federal deferred tax assets and a decrease to income tax expense for the period the release is recorded. The exact timing and amount of the valuation allowance release depends on the level of profitability that we are able to achieve. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table presents selected financial information related to our liquidity and significant sources and uses of cash and cash equivalents as of and for the periods presented. As of (in thousands, except for percentages) March 31, 2023 December 31, 2022 Cash and cash equivalents $ 110,696 $ 160,127 Current ratio 2.4 2.2 Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Net cash used in operating activities $ (43,103 ) $ (18,364 ) Net cash used in investing activities $ (3,929 ) $ (4,365 ) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities $ (2,917 ) $ 25,754 Our primary liquidity and capital resources are our cash on hand, including cash provided by our Former Parent prior to the Separation. Cash and cash equivalents were $110.7 million at March 31, 2023, a decrease of $49.4 million from $160.1 million 30 at December 31, 2022. This decrease resulted primarily from cash used by operations of $43.1 million, $3.9 million in capital expenditures, and $2.9 million in payment of withholding taxes on net share settlement of restricted awards. For information about our material cash requirements, see Liquidity and Capital Resources in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. Our cash requirements have not changed materially since December 31, 2022. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities was $43.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, primarily due to our net loss of $32.9 million and $46.9 million in changes in operating assets and liabilities, partially offset by non-cash items of depreciation of $4.1 million, amortization of intangible assets of $14.8 million, stock-based compensation expense of $16.0 million, and an asset impairment charge of $1.1 million. Net cash used in operating activities was $18.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, primarily due to our net loss of $30.5 million and $16.6 million in changes in operating assets and liabilities, partially offset by non-cash items of depreciation of $5.6 million, amortization of intangible assets of $14.8 million, and stock-based compensation expense of $8.6 million. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $3.9 million and $4.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, which was primarily related to capital expenditures. Capital Expenditures Our capital expenditures for property, plant, and equipment consist primarily of purchases of computer hardware and software, information systems, production and test equipment. We expect capital expenditures in 2023 to be between $15.0 million to $20.0 million. These expenditures are expected to be financed with existing cash and cash equivalents. There can be no assurance that current expectations will be realized and plans are subject to change upon further review of our capital expenditure needs. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $2.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, which reflected the payment of withholding taxes related to net share settlement of restricted stock unit awards. Net cash provided by financing activities was $25.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 due to net transfers from the Former Parent. Long-Term Debt In connection with the Vewd Acquisition on July 1, 2022, we issued a senior unsecured promissory note (the Promissory Note) to the sellers of Vewd in the principal amount of $50.0 million. Indebtedness outstanding under the Promissory Note bears an interest rate of 6.00% per annum, payable in cash on a quarterly basis. If a certain qualified spin-off transaction occurs, the interest rate will be increased to the greater of (a) 6.00% and (b) the sum of (i) the highest interest rate payable under any credit facility or bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments where we or any guarantor borrows money or guarantees obligations on a secured basis on or after the date of such spin-off transaction, plus (ii) 2.00%. It was determined that the Spin-Off completed on October 1, 2022 did not trigger any change in the interest rate of the debt. The Promissory Note matures on July 1, 2025. We may, at any time and on any one or more occasions, prepay all or any portion of the outstanding principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, under the Promissory Note without premium or penalty. In addition, the Promissory Note has mandatory prepayment provisions upon certain change of control or asset sale events. At March 31, 2023, $50.0 million was outstanding under the Promissory Note with an annual interest rate of 6.0%. Interest is payable quarterly. Under the Promissory Note, we are obligated to make a balloon principal payment of $50.0 million in 2025. Following the Separation from the Former Parent, our capital structure and sources of liquidity changed significantly from our historical capital structure and sources of liquidity. Subsequent to the Separation, we no longer participate in cash management 31 and funding arrangements managed by the Former Parent. At the time of the Spin-Off, our Former Parent capitalized us such that we carried an amount of cash and cash equivalents of over $180.0 million. Our current cash and cash equivalents balance is expected to be sufficient to support our operations, capital expenditures and income tax payments, in addition to any investments and other capital allocation needs, for at least the next 12 months from the issuance date of these financial statements. Poor financial results, unanticipated expenses, unanticipated acquisitions of technologies or businesses or unanticipated strategic investments could give rise to additional financing requirements sooner than we expect. There can be no assurance that equity or debt financing will be available when needed or, if available, that such equity financing will be on terms satisfactory to us and not dilutive to our then-current stockholders or that debt financing will not impose significant restrictions on the operation of our business. We plan to supplement this short-term liquidity, if necessary, with access to capital markets. Our access to capital markets may be constrained and our cost of borrowing may increase under certain business and market conditions, and our liquidity is subject to various risks including the risks identified in Risk Factors included in Item 1A of this Form 10-Q. Critical Accounting Estimates During the three months ended March 31, 2023, there were no significant changes in our critical accounting estimates. See Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail. For a discussion of our critical accounting estimates, see Part II, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Form 10-K. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-Q for more information.