Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for information concerning the continuing effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business. Overview On December 18, 2019, Xperi Corporation (Xperi) entered into a definitive agreement with TiVo Corporation (TiVo), to combine in an all-stock merger of equals transaction (the Mergers). Following consummation of the Mergers on June 1, 2020, Xperi Holding Corporation became the parent company of both Xperi and TiVo. The common stock of both Xperi and TiVo were de-registered after completion of the Mergers. On June 2, 2020, Xperi Holding Corporations common stock, par value $0.001 per share, commenced trading on the Nasdaq Global Select Market (Nasdaq) under the ticker symbol XPER. Xperi was determined to be the accounting acquirer in the Mergers. As a result, the historical financial statements of Xperi for periods prior to the Mergers are considered to be the historical financial statements of Xperi Holding Corporation. As used herein, the Company, we, us and our refer to Xperi when referring to periods prior to June 1, 2020 and Xperi Holding Corporation when referring to periods subsequent to June 1, 2020. Our results of operations include the operations of TiVo after June 1, 2020. Unless specified otherwise, the financial results in this Annual Report are those of the Company and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. We are a leading consumer and entertainment product/solutions licensing company and one of the industrys largest intellectual property licensing platforms, with a diverse portfolio of media and semiconductor intellectual property and more than 11,000 patents and patent applications worldwide. We create extraordinary experiences at home and on the go for millions of consumers around the world, elevating content and how audiences connect with it in a way that is more intelligent, immersive and personal. Powering smart devices, connected cars, entertainment experiences and more, we have created a unified ecosystem that reaches highly engaged consumers, uncovering new business opportunities, now and in the future. Xperi addresses one of the biggest consumer trends in entertainment today the massive proliferation of entertainment content and the rapidly changing habits for how consumers are finding, watching and enjoying that entertainment. Our technologies are integrated into billions of consumer devices, media platforms, and semiconductors worldwide, driving increased value for partners, customers and consumers. Headquartered in Silicon Valley with operations around the world, we have approximately 1,900 employees and more than 35 years of operating experience. We conduct our business in two operating segments: (1) Intellectual Property (IP) Licensing and (2) Product. In our IP Licensing segment, we primarily license our innovations to leading companies in the broader entertainment industry, and those developing new technologies that will help drive this industry forward. Licensing arrangements include access to one or more of our foundational patent portfolios and may also include access to some of our industry-leading technologies and proven know-how. In our Product segment, we derive the majority of the revenue from licensing our technology to customers primarily through Technology License arrangements and Technology Solutions arrangements. For Technology License arrangements, the customer obtains rights to the technology delivered at the commencement of the agreement. For Technology Solutions arrangements, the customer receives access to a platform, media or data that includes frequent updates, where access to such updates is critical to the functionality of the technology. In February 2022, Xperi introduced Adeia (pronounced AH-dee-uh ), the new brand for our IP Licensing Segment. Ideas are at the heart of Adeias business and are embedded in its new name, which means to license in Greek. Licensing is how Adeia goes to market by making its ideas broadly available to the industry. 4 We are currently planning, subject to any required regulatory approvals, a separation of our Product business and IP Licensing business through a tax-efficient transaction, resulting in two independent, publicly traded companies. We continue to evaluate the optimal timing of the contemplated business separation and currently anticipate that such separation will be completed in the second half of 2022 . IP Licensing Segment The IP Licensing Segment, now operating under the Adeia brand, primarily licenses our innovations to leading companies in the broader entertainment industry, and those developing new technologies that will help drive this industry forward. Licensing arrangements include access to one or more of our foundational patent portfolios and may also include access to some of our industry-leading technologies and proven know-how. Strategy We have adopted a proactive strategy designed to protect and extend our technology and intellectual property. We continue to grow our patent portfolios in size and relevance through ongoing investment in internal innovation, strategic management of our portfolios, and targeted acquisitions to enhance our portfolio for the broader entertainment industry. We invent, develop, and license fundamental innovations that shape the way millions of people explore and experience entertainment and enhance billions of devices in an increasingly connected world. From TVs to smartphones, in almost any place you can think of, from home to work to on the go, and in all types of entertainment experiences, from Pay-TV to over-the-top (OTT) delivery, managing content and connections in a way that is smart, immersive, and personal is precisely what our innovations do. Our patented innovations broadly cover all aspects of the entertainment experience, including guidance, discovery, search, recommendations, DVR, VOD, OTT, multi-screen, personalization, data analytics, advertising, imaging, content storage, and high-performance computing. We license our patented media innovations for use with traditional linear television both in North America and internationally, and increasingly in connection with over-the-top, direct-to-consumer, and social media services that provide access to entertainment inside and outside the home on a broad array of devices. We believe the continued growth of video consumption, the evolution of how consumers explore and experience video, and need for content storage and high performance computing present new opportunities for us to continue to develop patentable innovations, expand the industries we serve, and to license additional patent rights. 5 6 Our licensing business provides a strong foundation of recurring, annual revenue. That revenue is derived from licensing our patent portfolios across multiple markets, including: Multichannel Video Programming Distributors (MVPD): includes cable, satellite and telecommunications television providers that aggregate and distribute linear content over their own networks (MVPDs), as well as television providers that aggregate and stream linear content over broadband networks (virtual MVPDs). Customers typically pay us a monthly per-subscriber fee and include many of the leading MVPDs and virtual MVPDs such as Altice USA (including Cablevision), AT&T (including DirecTV and AT&T Now), Charter, Comcast (including Sky), Cox, Dish Network (including Sling TV), Google (including YouTube TV), Shaw, Verizon and Vodafone. Over-The-Top (OTT) Video Service Providers, Social Media and Other New Media Companies : includes subscription video-on-demand (SVOD) service providers that offer online services and devices that enable internet streaming and downloading of movies, television shows and other video programing, content providers, networks and media companies that provide content directly to consumers through a variety of business models (e.g. SVOD, AVOD, EST, etc.) and social media companies that increasingly incorporate video as an integral part of their offerings. Customers have typically paid us fixed fees for specified periods of time and include some of the leading new media companies including Google (including YouTube), HBOMax, Peacock, Starz, Paramount (including Pluto TV) and several of the leading social media companies. Consumer Electronics (CE) Manufacturers : includes producers of content access points such as smart televisions, streaming media devices, video game consoles, mobile devices, DVRs and other connected media devices. Our CE licensees typically are structured as license fees based on the number of units licensed, for specified products, in defined territories. Our agreements with some of the larger CE manufacturers generally allow customers to ship an unlimited number of units, provided they pay us fixed fees for specified periods of time. Select customers include Panasonic, Roku, Samsung Electronics, TCL and Vizio. Semiconductors: includes providers of sensors, radio frequency (RF) components, memory and logic devices commonly used in electronic products such as mobile phones, laptops, PCs, game consoles and servers. Customers typically have paid us fixed fees for specified periods of time, or a per-unit fee, and include Micron, OmniVision, Samsung, SK hynix, Sony, UMC and Yangtze Memory Technologies. We continue to strengthen the foundation of our IP Licensing Segment with several specific growth opportunities, including: Greater penetration in OTT: The OTT market is currently experiencing explosive growth. For example, the largest providers of SVOD now have approximately 200 million worldwide subscribers, driven in part by the recent launch of several new services. While these services have a significantly lower ARPU when compared to traditional Pay-TV, the scale of the overall OTT video market continues to grow and presents an increasingly important licensing opportunity for our business. While we are at a comparatively earlier stage of licensing the key providers in this market, we are confident that the fundamental innovations from our patent portfolios will be similarly relevant to these new and widely-adopted OTT video services. Expansion of MVPD licensing in Canada: We continue to license MVPDs in Canada and have already successfully licensed several leading providers, including two of the top five MVPDs. Licensing the remaining Canadian MVPD providers presents a significant opportunity for expanding our IP licensing business. Re-establish the Semiconductor licensing business: With the rising cost and complexity of developing cutting-edge semiconductor manufacturing processes, the industry is increasingly looking beyond Moores Law towards advanced packaging and 3D integration technologies. Leveraging the combination of our highly-experienced technologists, scientists and engineers and our advanced research and development labs, we continue to develop industry-leading 3D integration solutions such as hybrid bonding that meet the demand for greater functionality, higher performance and smaller size for the next generation of electronics. Competition Due to the exclusionary nature of patent rights, we do not compete, in a traditional sense, with other patent holders for patent licensing relationships. Other patent holders do not have the same rights to the inventions and technologies encompassed by our patent portfolio. In any service, device or piece of equipment that contains intellectual property, the provider or manufacturer may need to obtain licenses from multiple holders of intellectual property. In licensing our patent portfolio, we compete with other patent holders for a share of the royalties that certain licensees may argue to be the total royalty that is supported by a certain service(s) or product(s), which may face practical limitations. 7 We compete primarily with internal technology development groups within our respective technology licensing markets, who may create their own solutions that compete with technologies that we license. In general, there may be several ways to solve a particular technical problem and there can be no assurance that our inventions and approaches will be the ones generally adopted by the industry. We also compete with other companies in acquiring patent portfolios . Protecting Our Investment Although we are engaged with and have successfully licensed and transferred our technologies to many companies, some of the companies that use our patented technologies have nonetheless chosen not to enter into license agreements with us. Consequently, we have, at times, initiated litigation to enforce our IP rights and protect our investment. We view litigation as an instrument of last resort, and we use it only when our efforts to reach negotiated licenses have stalled or failed. If we are unable to secure license agreements on favorable terms through negotiations, or if licensees do not comply with the terms of their licenses, we might have to file new litigation to enforce our rights. See Part 1, Item 3- Legal Proceedings. Product Segment Xperi makes the ordinary extraordinary. Our product business creates extraordinary experiences at home and on the go for millions of consumers around the world, elevating content and how audiences connect with it in a way that is more intelligent, immersive and personal. Powering smart devices, connected cars, entertainment experiences and more, weve created ecosystems that reach highly engaged consumers, that have and will uncovered new business opportunities. We group our business into four categories based on the products delivered and customers served: Pay-TV, Consumer Electronics, Connected Car, and Media Platform. Strategy Xperis product segment focuses on creating extraordinary experiences at home and on the go for millions of consumers around the world, elevating content and how audiences connect with it, in a way that is more intelligent, immersive and personal: Pay-TV : We transform the traditional television user experience from linear multi-channel video program distribution (MVPD) with cloud-based digital video recording (DVR) to an immersive, intuitive and hyper-personalized experience. Our iconic user experience gets people to the entertainment they love faster than ever. Content-first and AI-powered, its the one place for all of todays amazing TV shows, movies, sports and more across live, recorded, on-demand and streaming TV. Brilliant imagery and relevant, personalized recommendations make the experience more enjoyable and engaging, everywhere people watch. Consumer Electronics : We create memorable entertainment experiences at every turn. With clear, bright visuals and heart-pounding, immersive sound, were everywhere people listen, watch and play at the movies, throughout the home and on the most popular mobile devices and gaming platforms. Also, we are developing our machine-learning capabilities through our Perceive subsidiary which delivers datacenter-class accuracy and performance to edge-based devices at ultra-low power. Connected Car : We transform the automotive experience by bringing high-quality multimedia and personalization to the connected car, just like at home. We immerse drivers in more of their favorite audio content, with crystal-clear, subscription-free digital radio. And, give drivers confidence, as vehicles with our AI-powered in-cabin sensing solutions improve the safety, comfort and security of everyone in the car. With autonomous vehicles evolving consumer expectations, we are innovating to create the dashboard of the future, accommodating more types of entertainment, from video to gaming and more. Media Platform : We reach highly engaged consumers wherever they watch. We endeavor to connect advertisers and entertainment producers to audiences they cant reach on other platforms, thanks to our content-first user experience that monetizes live and streaming TV across devices. Our unique footprint includes millions of traditional, linear TV households, where we deterministically capture viewership throughout the home, as well as anyone streaming from our ad-supported content network. With users searching less and watching more, networks and studios grow audiences, while consumer brands build incremental exposure to their campaigns over time. 8 9 Our Pay-TV business delivers a range of User Experience (UX) solutions servicing Pay-TV operators on a world-wide basis with products that address the evolving user experience around TV content consumption, creating a truly unified media experience. Immersive, intuitive and hyper-personalized, our iconic user experience gets people to the entertainment they love faster than ever. Content-first and AI-powered, its the one place for all of todays amazing TV shows, movies, sports and more across live, recorded, on-demand and streaming TV. Brilliant imagery and relevant, personalized recommendations make the experience more enjoyable and engaging. We integrate virtual channels of internet-delivered video directly into the consumers primary video consumption platform to provide universal search, discovery and consumption regardless of where the content originates. Our solutions make it easy for consumers to find, watch and enjoy content. The following are some of the key solutions we license to operators: Electronic Program Guides. Electronic Program Guides is our interactive program guide offering that includes intuitive, easy-to-use TV listings navigation plus integrated video-on-demand (VOD) and DVR capabilities. Our UX Solutions: Allow service providers to customize certain elements of the interactive program guide for their customers and to upgrade the programming features and services they offer. Provide content producers with a platform for monetizing their content. A llow viewers to build their own entertainment bundle to truly personalize their experience with current and future program information. Are compatible with service providers linear, network DVR, Start-Over/Catch-Up subscription management, pay-per-view (PPV) and VOD services. We currently offer UX Solutions marketed to service providers under the TiVo, iGuide and Passport brands in the U.S., Canada and Latin America. Service providers generally pay us a monthly per-subscriber fee to license our UX Solutions. We also offer UX Solutions to the consumer electronics industry under the G-GUIDE brand in Japan. Our UX Solutions may include advertising and we typically share a portion of the advertising revenue with the service provider. Such advertising revenue tied to our UX Solutions is included in the Media Platform category described below. Internet-Protocol Television (IPTV) Solutions . The TiVo IPTV Service is our most advanced platform, offering a fully integrated, cloud-based solution that powers the TiVo client software which operates on set-top-boxes in consumer homes, as well as applications that operate on third party software platforms, such as iOS, Android, and bring-your-own-device (BYOD) streaming devices that power tablets, smartphones and streaming devices. Our IPTV solution supports multiple services and applications, such as TV programming, broadband OTT video content, digital music, photos and other media experiences. The cloud-based service manages interaction with the clients, automatically connecting TiVo-enabled devices to provide program guide data, content recommendations, media promotion, advertising, broadband content and client software upgrades. We have enabled the TiVo client software to operate on set-top-boxes as well as Android TV TM boxes and streamers from a variety of manufacturers, for deployment in MVPD networks. We also enable a full suite of cloud-based IPTV experiences, including internet protocol linear, VOD, start-over, catch-up and network DVR. We allow Pay-TV operators the flexibility to transition to IPTV while utilizing their current infrastructure to take advantage of internet video and OTT content. Our IPTV solution allows set-top-boxes to operate in multiple settings in the home. Over the past few years, the TiVo client software has undergone a significant refactoring. In addition to developing a new look and feel, our next generation IPTV service platform integrates all of our most advanced technologies and solutions, including advanced cross-platform conversational voice search, personalized recommendations, predictions and insights, rich video metadata, robust data collection and new back-office capabilities. These advanced technologies allow our hardware partners devices to connect with third-party consumer devices and services to enable both existing and future functionality. TV as a Service IPTV Program . We also offer a Managed IPTV Service that is a customizable, cloud-enabled, end-to-end streaming video solution that enables operators to quickly launch a branded, fully compliant, full-featured Pay-TV service that leverages devices such as Apple TV, Android TV, and Amazon Fire TV. Our Managed IPTV Service enables broadband operators, 5G network providers and cable operators to offer TV-as-a-service without having to invest in video head-end infrastructure or end-user set-top-boxes. Our TV as a Service IPTV solution includes a full cable programming lineup with local channels, DVR, recommendations, Dynamic Ad Insertion (DAI) and more, all with the same ease as signing up for and using top streaming services. Video Metadata. Our metadata products are a critical component of delivering an interactive entertainment experience. We offer the industrys most comprehensive metadata library covering television, sports, movies, digital-first, celebrities, books, and video games. We develop our metadata through a technology platform that combines machine learning techniques and 10 platform-mediated work with our proprietary and patented knowledge graph technology. Our focus on quality, robustness and consistent international depth has made us a recognized leader in entertainment metadata services worldwide. We offer several metadata and service offerings, including the following: schedules, listings, app content linking services, and advanced metadata such as moods, tones, themes and topics. Customers typically pay us a monthly or quarterly licensing fee for the rights to use the metadata, receive regular updates, and integrate metadata into their own service. We deliver metadata using real-time APIs and as bulk data files depending on customer requirements. Personalized Content Discovery, Natural Language Voice and Insights. Personalized Content Discovery with conversation services provides our customers (including content owners and applications, CE device manufacturers, and application/service developers and providers) with a way to enable their customers (the device user) to quickly find, discover and access content across linear broadcast television, VOD, DVR, and OTT sources. The ongoing investment in our Personalized Content Discovery platform enables us to provide some of the most advanced capabilities in media personalization, prediction and voice search. The advanced algorithms of our technology understand the nature and relationship of content information and the context surrounding a users behavior to deliver an advanced personalized content discovery experience. Results can be generated through traditional text entry, voice interaction, or through our content recommendations. Our natural language voice solution, when combined with our advanced search and recommendations technology, enables a conversational interaction between a viewer and their content experience. Engagement behaviors are then analyzed and may be optimized through our Insight platform, thereby providing our customers with the ability to continuously engage and improve the consumer experience, with the ultimate goal of reducing churn. Legacy TiVo DVR Subscriptions . We offer a direct-to-consumer retail TiVo subscription in North America. The TiVo Service Platform includes a modular front-end that allows the basic platform to be used by hardware manufacturers to build set-top-boxes that support digital and analog broadcast, cable, internet TV, OTT and VOD services. Consumers purchase TiVo DVRs and companion TiVo Mini whole-home devices for a user experience upgrade to the set-top-box experience provided by a standard cable service. Our customers apply these technologies to Pay-TV, internet TV, and video services from virtual service providers, content producers, and CE manufacturers. Customers typically pay us a per-subscriber or per-device fee. Our search and recommendation solutions are widely deployed with many leading Pay-TV service providers including Charter and Vodafone. UX Business Operations and Technical Support . Our UX Business has technical support and certification operations to support our products: We provide training, technical support and integration services to Pay-TV service providers who license our products. We operate the internet-based services required for our service offerings including data delivery, search, recommendation, advertising, device management and media recognition. We provide broadcast delivery of television programming data and advertising to UXs on TVs and set-top-boxes in major European markets and in Japan. In North America, we deliver similar programming and advertising data via the internet. We support our customers with porting and engineering services to ensure our interactive program guides and DVRs operate properly. We also provide customer care for UX and DVR customers to resolve data, advertising and consumer functional issues. 11 12 Our Consumer Electronics business represents technology solutions delivered to our customers to enhance their entertainment experience in the home and on-the-go. Below are some of the key solutions we license: Home and Mobile Audio Solutions. Our solutions consist of premier audio technology for high-definition entertainment experiences. Our DTS codec is designed to enable recording, delivery and playback of immersive high-definition audio and is incorporated by hundreds of customers around the world into an array of consumer electronics devices. We provide products and services to entertainment media ecosystem partners such as motion picture studios, game developers and other content creators to facilitate the inclusion of compelling, realistic DTS-encoded audio within their content. This in turn allows consumers to experience immersive and compelling audio wherever they choose to enjoy it. Home and Mobile devices that incorporate DTS audio codec technology include televisions (TVs), personal computers (PCs), smartphones, tablets, set top boxes (STBs), video game consoles, Blu-ray Disc players, audio/video receivers, soundbars, wireless speakers and home theater systems. We also offer DTS post-processing audio solutions designed to enhance the entertainment experience for users of consumer electronics devices, particularly those subject to the physical limitations of smaller speakers, such as TVs, PCs and mobile devices. In 2018, we launched the IMAX Enhanced program, which Xperi manages and licenses to consumer electronics customers worldwide to deliver the ultimate home cinema experience with unique IMAX cinematic content that leverages the DTS:X audio format to deliver signature IMAX audio mixes. In addition, our DTS Play-Fi technology leverages our audio and technology expertise to enable a variety of high-quality audio playback options across wireless speakers, set-top-boxes, TVs and mobile devices. The proliferation of connected devices that can support streaming and downloadable content has made our active participation within the digital ecosystem increasingly important, as the availability of DTS-encoded content helps drive consumer demand for electronics that support DTS technologies. Our immersive audio solutions, such as DTS-HD and DTS:X, empower content creators and are supported by all major Hollywood studios, many cinema operators in the U.S. and Asia, and leading streaming service providers in the U.S., Europe and Asia. We have licensed our audio technologies and related trademarks to substantially all of the major consumer electronics product manufacturers worldwide. These customers include Denso, Harman, Hisense, LG, Microsoft, Panasonic, Samsung, Sony, and others. Traditionally, our audio technologies are delivered as software code on integrated circuit (IC) chips. We license a defined and limited set of rights to incorporate our technology onto IC chips, and the IC manufacturers deliver these Xperi-enabled chips to our customers, the consumer electronics product manufacturers. We also work closely with the worlds leading IC manufacturers to support our technologies on the new programmable architectures that enable our customers to deploy our technologies in their consumer electronic products. Our IC partners specialize in key vertical markets and work closely with us to enable our latest technologies for these programmable parts. Together, we license solutions to Xperis consumer electronics manufacturers. We have devoted significant time and resources to develop a broad range of solutions with key partners including Amlogic, Analog Devices, Cadence, Cirrus Logic, Mediatek, Mstar, NXP, Qualcomm, Realtek, Synaptics, Texas Instruments, and others. Perceive Our Perceive subsidiary provides silicon and software solutions for edge inference, which provides two differentiating factors: low power and high performance. Perceives Ergo chip and associated software deliver breakthrough innovation delivering datacenter class accuracy and performance at ultra-low power, performing tasks such as face recognition, and audio/video event detection. These solutions are expected to have initial market applications in consumer security cameras and doorbells, laptops, PCs, advanced wearables and other battery powered consumer devices, made by industry leaders. 13 We group our Connected Car business into three main categories based on the products delivered to our customers: HD Radio, Automotive Connected Media, and In-Cabin Monitoring Solutions. HD Radio . HD Radio is the only digital terrestrial broadcast system approved by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) for AM/FM radio in the U.S., offering additional channels, crystal-clear sound and advanced data services with no 14 subscription fees. HD Radio enables a high-quality in-vehicle radio experience with innovative features and digital capabilities such as real time traffic and weather updates. HD Radio technology enables digital AM/FM broadcast radio, creating significant benefits to all participants in the radio broadcasting ecosystem. HD Radio is supported by more than 2,400 radio stations, including 98 of the top 100 most listened to stations in the U.S. Furthermore, we believe HD Radio provides compelling advantages to consumers over traditional radio as listeners enjoy upgraded audio quality, expanded content choices, content information (such as song and artist names) and new digital services. Our HD Radio technology is incorporated into several of our automotive partners products, including vehicles from Acura, Audi, BMW, Ford, Honda, Hyundai, Tesla, and Toyota, among many others. DTS AutoStage. DTS AutoStage is our comprehensive automotive infotainment offering integrating industry-leading music and audio entertainment metadata, media search and discovery and our DTS premium audio solutions. DTS AutoStage is a global system that enables car makers to utilize a single platform to deliver an enhanced radio experience across different analog and digital broadcast systems deployed regionally. Using an internet protocol connection installed in a vehicle, DTS AutoStage delivers an innovative analog AM/FM and digital (DAB and HD Radio) experience by pairing broadcast programming with internet-protocol-delivered content. Daimler launched the first series of automobiles featuring the DTS AutoStage platform in September 2020. DTS AutoSense In-Cabin Monitoring. Built upon our legacy as a pioneer in computational imaging solutions, DTS AutoSense includes driver monitoring systems (DMS) and occupant monitoring systems (OMS) to enable a full suite of detection and analysis products for automakers. These technologies enable state-of-the-art attentiveness assessment and fatigue detection for the driver as well as in-cabin monitoring and customization options, based on occupant detection and analysis. International agencies that publish automotive safety ratings are increasingly requiring in-cabin sensing solutions to award automakers high safety ratings. To meet these requirements, DTS AutoSense Occupancy Monitoring System is dedicated to saving the lives of vehicle passengers and drivers and to improving the in-cabin experience. DTS AutoSense is effective even if vehicle passengers/occupants are masked, and includes child seat detection, child presence detection, occupant detection, emotion detection, and passenger authentication. DTS AutoSense OMS uses a single camera and leverages the companys extensive experience with image processing (20+ years) and artificial intelligence. The solutions advanced computer vision and machine learning techniques enable vehicles to sense, in real time, the presence of occupants and objects (for example, a laptop accidentally left in the vehicle). The technology can also enable personalization of infotainment recommendations, such as playlists, content, volume of music, choice of radio station options, in-cabin temperature adjustments or any setting that can be adapted to a users specific taste. Working together the OMS and DMS provide insights into activity inside the vehicle, including the driver, passengers, pets and objects. BMW launched the first automobiles with DTS AutoSense in 2021. 15 16 Media Platform provides industry-leading technology that enables extraordinary experiences as consumers find, watch, and enjoy their favorite media entertainment on connected devices. We connect advertisers and entertainment producers to audiences they cant reach on other platforms due to our content-first user experience that monetizes live and streaming TV across devices. Our unique footprint includes millions of linear TV households, where we capture viewership throughout the home, as well as anyone streaming from our ad-supported content network. With users searching less and watching more, networks and studios grow audiences, while consumer brands build incremental exposure to their campaigns over time. Media Platform includes the TiVo Stream OS, our evolving proprietary media operating system, consumer devices that leverage the TiVo Stream OS (TiVo Stream 4K), future potential consumer devices that leverage the TiVo Stream OS (Connected TVs, Connected Cars.), and the monetization of TiVo Stream OS. TiVo Stream OS is monetized in several ways: through ad-supported video content displayed on TiVo Stream OS client-connected devices; subscription video-on-demand, virtual multichannel video programming distributor (vMVPD) service bounties and revenue shares facilitated by TiVo Stream OS client connected devices; on screen display advertisements on TiVo Stream OS client connected devices; data licensing of anonymous behavior data sourced from TiVo Stream OS client connected devices, off-platform ads leveraging TiVo Stream OS client connected device data, and other opportunities on device clients that connect to and leverage TiVo Stream OS. Revenue in this category will be driven primarily by expanding the active footprint of client-connected devices utilizing the TiVo Stream OS, increasing user engagement with media via the TiVo Stream OS, and successfully executing monetization tactics. Platform - TiVo Stream OS TiVo Stream OS leverages the key technologies and services that enable consumers to easily find their favorite media entertainment across an increasingly fragmented content service provider landscape. TiVo Stream OS is built upon 25+ years of media technology development learnings, servicing 20 million+ TiVo DVR service households. TiVo Stream OS enables ubiquitous footprint scale required by content service providers, advertisers, and other ecosystem partners; drives platform consumer engagement by leveraging proprietary content discovery, display, and delivery technologies; and serves as a control mechanism to ensure extraordinary experience quality for consumers. TiVo Stream OS scales across client-connected devices by creating and deploying uniform micro services across multiple endpoints to direct device provisioning, account management, firmware updates, media discovery, voice services, content service provider integration, ad delivery, usage reporting, and other future needs. Upon integration of a content service providers media catalogue and service with TiVo Stream OS, it is rapidly deployed across multiple client-connected devices with minimal customization. Additionally, advertisers can plan campaigns across multiple client-connected devices to reach their intended audiences leveraging TiVo Stream OS singular ad delivery service. TiVo Stream OS drives industry-leading consumer engagement by delivering rich metadata, personalization, natural language understanding and voice control, and content integration services. TiVo Stream OS provides client-connected devices with rich metadata including imagery and content descriptors, inviting consumers to continually engage with media. TiVo Stream OS provides industry-leading content recommendations based on AI-defined insights encouraging consumers to continually discover their next new favorite. These insights are derived from anonymous behavioral data combined with multiple on-device and off-device contextual variables. TiVo Stream OS provides best-in-class voice services and natural language understanding providing customers and effortless navigation and media discovery experience. This voice technology is media platform optimized, based on proprietary AI-produced insights derived from an entertainment-based knowledge graph. TiVo Stream OS uniquely brings services from long-time partners such as Disney, Sling, and YouTubeTV, among others, and seamlessly integrates local TV, free ad-based TV and the most popular AVOD, SVOD and vMVPD services. As the TiVo Stream OS footprint increases, the inventory of Free Ad Supported TV (FAST) and Ad-supported Video on Demand (AVOD) services such as our own TiVo+ network increases and provides a robust opportunity to monetize this unique connected TV advertisement inventory. This inventory is further enriched based on anonymous user behavioral data collected from the Stream OS devices. Devices TiVo Stream 4K TiVo Stream 4K is a best-in-class streaming media player that currently leverages components of TiVo Stream OS with market-leading networking, video and sound technologies to provide a powerful hardware platform on which TiVo Stream OS can operate to upgrade any screen with an HDMI connection to a smart, connected device. TiVo Stream 4K is sold via online 17 and traditional retail channels as well as through broadband partners seeking to provide a vMVPD service and streaming media player bundled offerings to their customers. Devices TiVo Stream OS for TV TiVo Stream OS for TV is a Linux-based SmartTV operating system that leverages TiVo Stream OS technologies, features, and capabilities. We expect the TiVo Stream OS platform for Smart TVs to launch in 2023 or 2024. TiVo Stream OS for TVs will leverage TiVo Stream OS micro services to direct device provisioning, account management, firmware updates, media discovery, voice services, content service provider integration, ad delivery, usage reporting, and other future needs. It also leverages TiVo Stream OS content onboarding and delivery process to rapidly deploy a content service providers media catalogue and services with minimal customization. Lastly, the solution leverages TiVo Stream OS singular ad delivery service to plan and ad execute campaigns to reach intended TiVo Stream OS for TVs users. TiVo Stream OS for TVs will be licensed as a software-as-a-service to consumer electronic OEMs and will include the right to monetize all or part of the end-user content engagement over the life of the product. For Tier 2 and Tier 3 Smart TV OEMs, TiVo Stream OS will provide a platform to participate in the fast-growing Connected TV monetization value chain with scale and cross platform end-user insight not available to OEMs on a standalone basis. Monetization - TiVo Stream OS TiVo Stream OS is primarily monetized through video or display advertisement impressions; subscription video on demand and Pay-TV service bounties and revenue shares; TV viewership data licensing; off-platform connected TV ads; and other opportunities on device clients that connect to and leverage TiVo Stream OS. As the TiVo Stream OS platform scales, we are monetizing through the following vehicles: Ad Supported Content: The sale of ad inventory on services, including our own TiVo+ and certain third party AVOD services. SVOD and MVPD Services: Revenue shared by SVOD and virtual MVPD services on new user subscriptions activated or re-activated through our OS platform. Home Screen Ad Placements: Ad placements on the TiVo Stream OS platforms home screen by streaming services, studios, and other consumer brands. Data Licensing: Revenue from advertisers, advertising agencies, and networks to license data generated from TiVo platforms to inform their ad buying decisions. Off-Platform Ads: We will take household IDs from the TiVo Stream OS platform and use those IDs to target on other media sources. Monetization TV Viewership Data TiVo offers TV viewership data with program airings data for millions of households. Broadcasters, MVPDs, content producers, advertising agencies and advertisers that utilize our TV viewership data can activate subscribers TV viewership alone or in combination with third-party data sources using industry-leading data safe havens to target promotions and advertising directly, or through third party viewer segments, to monetize their subscriber customer base. Monetization Advertising Solutions TiVo provides advertisers with nationwide or regionally targeted advertising on our various owned or operated devices. Advertisers place ads in a variety of display formats in both traditional linear television and digital advertising for internet delivered content, seamlessly incorporated into the user interface. Utilizing our Personalized Content Discovery platform, we also target content promotions as paid search by directly including the sponsored content in user interfaces recommended content carousel. We work with service providers bundling their non-TiVo advertising inventory with our native inventory, thereby giving us a more significant national footprint. Competition Pay-TV 18 There are a number of companies that produce and market advanced media solutions such as UXs, interactive program guide s , DVRs, search, recommendation, natural language voice, metadata, and advanced data and analytics in the various formats which compete, or we believe will compete, with our products and services over time. Principal competitive factors include brand recognition and awareness, product and service functionality, innovation, ease of use, personalization, content access and availability, mobility and pricing. While we are competitive across this range of factors, we believe our primary competitive differentiation includes our ability to integrate all our products to create unique value to our customers and the depth and breadth of our IP portfolio. Our Platform faces competition from companies such as Synamedia, MediaKind, Kudelski, Enghouse Systems Limited, and from solutions developed by multiple system operators (MSOs) such as Comcast X1 and Liberty Global plcs Horizon Media, which have created competing products that provide user interface software for use on set-top-boxes and CE and mobile devices. Such companies may offer more economically attractive agreements to service providers and CE manufacturers by bundling multiple products together. We face competition for our Pay-TV product offerings from customers who choose to build their own interactive program guide and DVR solutions. We believe that we provide a strong alternative to do-it-yourself, as we have innovative, high-quality products ready to be implemented, with local and network DVR, integrated data distribution infrastructure and content, as well as third party services (such as VOD services). We differentiate our products by continuing to integrate our broad portfolio of products into a suite of solutions and services for our customers. We believe our solutions speed our customers time to market, are superior to do-it-yourself products, and can be deployed at a lower cost than internally-built products. Video Metadata. In video metadata, we compete with other providers of entertainment-related content metadata such as Gracenote (a subsidiary of Nielsen Holdings plc) and Ericsson Groups Red Bee Media, as well as a number of local metadata providers. While we do not believe that our competitors metadata sets offer the same comprehensive breadth of focus on media exploration, discovery, and management in as many regions of the world as we do, they present competition to our metadata business for each of their areas of focus. Consumer Electronics Audio . Our audio licensing products face competition from other third-party providers of similar solutions as well as internal engineering and design groups among industry IC provider and consumer electronics manufacturers. Our primary competitor is Dolby Laboratories, which develops and markets, among other things, highdefinition audio products and services. Dolbys longstanding market position, brand, business relationships, resources and inclusion in various industry standards provide it with a strong competitive position. In addition to Dolby, we compete in specific product markets with companies such as Fraunhofer IIS and various other consumer electronics product manufacturers. Many of these competitors have a wide variety of strengths that afford them competitive advantages, such as longer operating histories, greater resources, greater name recognition, or the ability to offer their technologies for a lower price or for free. We have historically competed effectively against these companies due in part to position our brand as a premium offering that contains superior proprietary technology, the quality of our customer service, our inclusion in industry standards and our industry relationships. Connected Car Our HD Radio and DTS AutoStage solutions face competition from subscription-based digital service providers such as Sirius/XM, Pandora, Gracenote, and other digital audio and data service providers. Our in-cabin monitoring technologies broadly compete with other image processing software vendors targeting the automotive industry, such as SmartEye and Seeing Machines, as well as engineering and design groups of tier one automotive suppliers that seek to provide similar technologies by employing different approaches with their internal teams. Media Platform TV Audience Data. We collect and analyze audience research data in an area where companies such as comScore, Inc. and Nielsen Holdings plc and other online data analytics companies compete for research spend from advertisers, advertising agencies and television networks. Other large companies are also focusing resources in this area including Comcast, Meta Platforms Inc. (Facebook) and Alphabet, Inc.s Google business. Many of our existing customers are investing in platforms to enable their businesses with these capabilities. We believe that there is a significant opportunity for us as an independent data and technology provider, with proprietary access to critical data assets associated with consumers engagement with entertainment media. 19 TiVo Stream 4K . We c ompete against products with on-demand OTT streaming capabilities offered by internet CE manufacturers. For example, many CE manufacturers have television or internet-enabled streaming devices for accessing video over the internet such as Apple TV, Amazon Fire TV, Google Chromecast and Roku. TVs with integrated streaming capabilities from manufacturers such as Samsung, Vi z io and LG also represent competition to our Stream 4K . Stream OS . We compete for SmartTV platform support with Roku, Alphabet, Incs GoogleTV and Amazons FireTV. We believe the overall OTT streaming market growth, our differentiated end-user solution, and our more inclusive business model for Tier 2 and Tier 3 SmartTV OEMs represents an opportunity where we can establish a strong niche position. In approaching content owners, advertisers and ad agencies to participate in the Stream OS platform, we are competing with the same platforms and TV OEMs operating their own TVOS such as Samsung, Vizio and LG. In this fast-expanding Connected TV advertising market, we believe our cross-platform data insight from Pay-TV and Stream OS households will allow us to create and promote a unique and compelling offering for advertisers. Over time, we expect to see new competitors and other competing technologies emerge. Intellectual Property Portfolio We operate in an industry in which innovation, investment in new ideas and protection of our intellectual property rights are critical for success. We protect our innovations and inventions through a variety of means, including but not limited to applying for patent protection domestically and internationally. As of December 31, 2021, we held approximately 5,000 United States issued patents and 1,400 patent applications, as well as approximately 3,900 foreign issued patents and 1,400 patent applications. The last of our currently issued patents to expire is in 2040. From time to time, we acquire complementary IP portfolios. Our criteria for patent acquisitions include: compatibility with our existing portfolios, the number and jurisdiction of patent assets, the technical and legal strength of the patents, the actual or likely adoption by industry, and the economic value of the inventions. See Part I, Item 1A- Risk Factors. Research & Development As demonstrated by our portfolio of industry recognized, widely-deployed advanced technologies and intellectual property (IP), we have a long track record of innovating in the fields of audio, imaging, video discovery, and semiconductors. We believe that ongoing investment in R&D is required for us to remain competitive in the markets we serve. Today, we have a collection of world-class talent and strong research and development capabilities in various locations throughout the world. Starting with core research, machine learning and advanced algorithm development, we continue to focus on IP development and next generation technology solutions. Our ongoing investment in R&D supported by a strong industry network of partners enables us to deliver differentiated, cost-effective solutions that enhance the end-user experience for an ever-larger universe of addressable markets. Legislative and Regulatory Actions A number of government and legislative initiatives have been enacted to encourage development and implementation of technologies that protect the rights and intellectual property of the content owners. For example, the U.S. and other countries have adopted certain laws, including the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998 ("DMCA") and the European Copyright Directive, which are aimed at the prevention of content piracy and the manufacture and sale of products that circumvent copy protection technologies, such as those covered by our patents. Compatibility Between Cable Systems and CE Equipment The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has been working for over a decade to implement a congressional mandate to create a competitive market for cable television STBs and other devices to access video programming on cable systems (navigation devices) and give consumers a choice in the devices used to access such programming, while still allowing the cable systems to have control over the secured access to their systems. To meet its statutory obligation without compromising the security of video services, the FCC required cable systems to make available a security element (now known as a CableCARD) separate from the basic navigation device needed to access video program channels. In 2003, the FCC adopted regulations implementing an agreement between cable television system operators 20 and CE manufacturers to facilitate the retail availability of so-called plug and play devices that utilize unidirectional CableCARDs , including digital televisions and other digital devices that enable subscribers to access cable television programming without the need for a STB (but without the ability for consumers to use interactive content). In September 2020, the FCC eliminated rules requiring cable providers to support CableC ARD . While the cable industry has continued to provide CableCARDs for third-party devices like ours, we cannot predict the ultimate impact of any new technical equipment regulations on our business and operations. Current FCC regulations no longer prohibit multi-channel video service providers from deploying navigation devices with combined security and non-security functions, further developments with respect to these issues could impact the availability and/or demand for plug and play devices, particularly bi-directional devices and STBs, all of which could affect demand for UXs incorporated in STBs or CE devices . General Government Regulation We are subject to a number of foreign and domestic laws and regulations that affect companies that import or export software and technology, including encryption technology, such as the U.S. export control regulations as administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce. We are also subject to a number of foreign and domestic laws that affect companies conducting business on the internet. In addition, because of the increasing popularity of the internet and the growth of online services, laws relating to user privacy, freedom of expression, content, advertising, accessibility, network neutrality, information security and intellectual property rights are being debated and considered for adoption by many countries throughout the world. Each jurisdiction may enact different standards, which could impact our ability to deliver data, services or other solutions through the internet. We are subject to international laws (including the General Data Protection Regulation and the Personal Information Protection Law) associated with data protection, privacy, and other aspects of our business in Europe, China and elsewhere and the interpretation and application of data protection laws remains uncertain. In addition, because our services are accessible worldwide, foreign jurisdictions may claim that we are required to comply with their laws. Further, the application of existing laws regulating or requiring licenses for certain businesses of our advertisers can be unclear. The resulting regulation, if any, may alter our ability to target advertising or provide data about the end-users and/or customers and their behavior. Additionally, the privacy regulatory landscape in the U.S. changes rapidly and we may become subject to new privacy or cybersecurity regulations. Such laws and regulations could affect our ability to process personal data (in particular, our ability to use certain data for purposes such as risk or fraud avoidance, marketing or advertising), our ability to control our costs by using certain vendors or service providers or our ability to offer certain services in certain jurisdictions. For example, the California Consumer Privacy Act, or CCPA, became effective on January 1, 2020. The CCPA creates new individual privacy rights for consumers (as that word is broadly defined in the law) and places increased privacy and security obligations on entities handling personal data of consumers or households. The CCPA requires covered businesses to provide new disclosures to California consumers, and allows for a new cause of action for data breaches. The CCPA also provides a consumer with the right to (i) opt out of certain sales of personal information, (ii) know the personal information that the business maintains about the consumer, and (iii) request deletion of personal information. It is unclear how the CCPA will be interpreted, but as currently written, it will likely impact our business activities and exemplifies the vulnerability of our business to not only cyber threats but also the evolving regulatory environment related to personal data. The CCPAs privacy measures will be strengthened by the California Privacy Rights Act, or CPRA, which will become effective on January 1, 2023, with enforcement commencing on July 1, 2023. In the U.S., service providers have been subject to claims of defamation, libel, invasion of privacy and other data protection claims, torts, unlawful activity, copyright or trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials searched and the ads posted or the content generated by users. In addition, several other federal laws could have an impact on our business. For example, the DMCA has provisions that limit, but do not eliminate, our liability for hosting or linking to third-party websites that include materials that infringe copyrights or other rights, so long as we comply with the statutory requirements of this act. The Children's Online Privacy Protection Act restricts the ability of service providers to collect information from minors and the Protection of Children from Sexual Predators Act of 1998 requires service providers to report evidence of violations of federal child pornography laws under certain circumstances. Our operations in China may also be subject to privacy regulations. China recently passed the Personal Information Protection Law effective November 1, 2021, which creates a comprehensive set of data privacy and security obligations that not only apply to the processing of personal information within China, but also to the processing outside of China if such processing is for purposes of providing products and services to, or analyzing and evaluating the behavior of, individuals located in China. The law provides for various requirements on personal information protection, including obligations of obtaining informed consent and limiting to the minimum scope necessary for the collection and processing of personal information, requirements for conducting a personal information protection impact assessment for certain data processing activities, and responsibilities of 21 adopting necessary measures to safeguard the security of the personal information, etc. The law also requires a security assessment and regulatory approval, government certification and/or conclusion of a standard data transfer agreement with the overseas recipient before transferring personal information outside of China. Lastly, the law imposes significant fines of up to RMB 50 million (approx. $7.7 million) or 5% of annual revenues for violation of the law. Chinese data protection laws are still evolving which may impose additional restrictions on companies doing business in China. Our efforts to comply with these laws and regulations may likely result in increased costs of doing business. Human Capital Resources The opportunities for our success and growth depend in large part on our ability to attract, develop, and retain a talented and engaged workforce. In particular, we are competing for technical talent and we need to offer not only robust and attractive compensation packages but also provide broad opportunities for our employees to make an impact, grow, and develop. As of December 31, 2021, we had a global talent base consisting of approximately 1,900 full-time employees. To enable our talent to actively contribute to, and have a positive impact on, the overall business and culture, we developed and maintain a set of programs and initiatives. These programs include competitive compensation and benefits offerings, company culture and employee resource group events, skill development opportunities, diversity and inclusion initiatives, and goal and performance management. In support of these efforts, our Board of Directors monitors many of these programs and initiatives and provides guidance and feedback as appropriate. Our goal is to provide a work environment that empowers our teams and enables employees to enjoy a healthy and productive work-life balance for themselves, their families, and our community. Our incentives are based on merits, and we have a strong pay-for-performance culture. We benchmark our total rewards annually to ensure our compensation and benefit programs remain competitive with industry peers. Our compensation framework for employees reflects a combination of fixed and variable pay including base salary, bonuses, performance awards, and stock-based compensation. We offer employees benefits that vary by country and are designed to meet or exceed local laws and that are competitive in the marketplace. We invest in the career growth of our employees by providing a wide range of development opportunities, including face-to-face (where possible), virtual, social and self-directed learning, mentoring, coaching, training and external development. We also conduct annual assessment of employees to identify development needs based on department goals. We believe in the principles of a learning organization and strive to provide continuous educational opportunities for our employees. In 2021, we curated and delivered courses through our online learning platform, providing a wide range of skill development opportunities for employees to become more knowledgeable and effective in their roles. We leverage our manager ecosystem, coupled with industry-standard performance management tools, to align corporate goals with employee objectives. We have delivered management training and supplementary resources to enable our management community to provide excellent support and guidance to their teams. We have recently launched ongoing People Management Community sessions and a Manager Resources Hub, which serves as a one-stop shop for managers. Employees are encouraged to create and align individual, functional and team-based goals, track performance against goals, write self-evaluations, and provide feedback to supervisors or management members. We have demonstrated support and commitment to developing a culture of non-discrimination and embracing diversity and inclusion throughout our workforce. Our current employee resource groups represent the LGBTQ+ community, the black community, women, and veterans. We also have formed a Diversity and Inclusion council comprised of all levels of employees and senior executives. The purpose of the council is, among other things, to identify and address issues of diversity and inclusion through multiple and unique perspectives from a diverse group of our employees. We continue to be a part of the business coalition in support of the Equality Act, a measure that supports federal legislation that would provide the same basic protections to LGBTQ+ people as are provided to other protected groups under federal law. Additionally, we currently comply fully with Californias board diversity legislation that requires a minimum number of female directors and directors from underrepresented communities. We measure employee experience by collecting insight and understanding of engagement and satisfaction. We use an employee engagement survey, executive roundtables, and employee focus groups to solicit input. During the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, we have focused on the health, safety, and well-being of our employees. We have: Established office reentry guidelines consistent with CDC, state and local government mandates. Developed a hybrid-work model methodology and implemented a consultative approach with our employees around the flexible work arrangements that they need in order to maintain productivity and their health and well-being. 22 Offered various training and learning opportunities, including relevant trainings to help employees better manage remote working, childcare, social isolation, and other work-from-home challenges. Enhanced internal communications strategies using multiple vehicles such as a corporate intranet, Zoom, Slack, videos, etc., to ensure connection and contacts among employees. Provided a number of well-being offerings and events including resources and guidance on burn-out, access to Headspace (a mindfulness app), and various online training events. Extended our Working From Home Connectivity Allowance and New Hire WFH Allowance, which covers certain costs associated with setting up home offices, into 2022. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement or are represented by a labor union. We have not experienced any organized work stoppages, and we consider the relationships with our employees to be positive . Climate Change We published our first ESG report on February 7, 2022 which can be found at https://3tzoo1wg2mg2h6j5g2fflok1-wpengine.netdna-ssl.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/02/ESG_Report_February_2022.pdf . Using insights we gleaned from the development of our inaugural materiality assessment, we developed an ESG program around three key focus areas: Culture & Belonging, Community Impact, and Resilience. Our Resilience pillar includes a focus on reducing the impact of climate change. We have already taken steps to reduce our carbon footprint through actions such as increasing energy efficiency within our office buildings and reducing and migrating the majority of on-premise IT assets towards more energy efficient solutions. At the beginning of 2022, we began the exercise of measuring our greenhouse gas baseline emissions and will establish associated goals linked to that activity, and we intend to present those goals in a subsequent ESG report. Available Information Our internet address is www.xperi.com, where we make available, free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our SEC reports can be accessed through the investor relations section of our website. The information found on our website and in our ESG report is not incorporated into this or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC. Item 1A. Risk Factors Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock. Any of the following risks and uncertainties may be exacerbated by the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and related events. Risk Factor Summary We may not be able to complete the planned business separation in a timely manner or at all, and even if such separation occurs, we may not achieve the expected benefits (including the tax treatment) of such transaction. We may not be able to manage our disparate business operations efficiently, which may lead to disposition of such business and related assets. Our business has been, and is expected to continue to be, impacted by the global COVID-19 pandemic. We enter into license agreements that have fixed expiration dates and we may not be able to renew or replace such license agreements on terms favorable to us. The nature of some of our business relationships may restrict our ability to operate freely in the future and could be interpreted in a manner that adversely affects revenue, including from licensing, under those agreements. The success of our patent licensing business is dependent on the quality of our patent assets and our ability to create and implement new technologies or expand our licensable technology through acquisitions. The structure and timing of our license and settlement agreements may cause fluctuations in our quarterly or annual financial results. The long-term success of our business is dependent on a royalty-based business model, which is inherently risky. It is difficult for us to verify royalty amounts owed to us under our licensing agreements. We may not be able to develop and deliver, on a timely basis, innovative technologies and services in response to changes in our markets and industries. We face competitive risks in the provision of entertainment offerings involving the distribution of digital content provided by third party application providers through broadband. 23 Our pursuit of acquisitions and divestures may adversely affect our business or stock price if we cannot successfully execute our strategies. If we fail to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, contract rights, our confidential information, or our brand, or if third parties assert that we violate their intellectual property rights, our business may suffer. Our licensees may delay, refuse to or be unable to make payments to us due to financial difficulties or otherwise, or shift their licensed products to other companies to lower their royalties to us. Some of our Semiconductor IP license agreements may convert to fully paid-up licenses at the expiration of their terms, or upon certain milestones, and we may not receive royalties after that time. We may not be able to maintain a sufficient amount of content released in the DTS audio format, which may reduce demand for our technologies, products, and services. Demand for our HD Radio technology may be insufficient to sustain projected growth. If we are unable to further penetrate the streaming and downloadable content delivery markets and adapt our technologies for those markets, our royalties and ability to grow our business could be adversely impacted. The success of certain of our solutions depends on the interoperability of our technologies with other devices. Our failure to adequately manage our increasingly complex distribution agreements, including licensing, development and engineering services, may cause unexpected delays and loss of revenue. We make significant investments in new products and services that may not achieve technological feasibility or profitability or that may limit our growth. Our products and services could be susceptible to errors, defects, or unintended performance problems that could result in lost revenue, liability or delayed or limited market acceptance. Dependence on the cooperation of Pay-TV service providers, television broadcasters, hardware manufacturers, data providers and delivery mechanisms could adversely affect our revenue. We are dependent on third parties for metadata and content. We depend on a limited number of third parties to design, manufacture, distribute and supply hardware devices upon which our TiVo software and service operate. We maintain inventories of TiVo-branded products based on our demand forecast, which may be incorrect and lead to our carrying excess or insufficient inventory. Qualifying, certifying and supporting our technologies, products and services is time-consuming and expensive. We are exposed to the risks related to international sales and operations. Further deterioration of trade relations between the United States and China, other trade conflicts and barriers, economic sanctions, and national security protection policies could limit or prevent existing or potential customers from doing business with us. Our systems, networks and online business activities are subject to cybersecurity and stability risks, information technology system failures, and security breaches. Our business operations are subject to natural disasters and industry-wide failure and adverse events. Changes in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles could affect our financial position and results of operations. We have significant indebtedness which could adversely affect our financial position. Our variable rate indebtedness may expose us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt costs to increase significantly. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our debt obligations. Repayment of debt is dependent on cash flow generated by our subsidiaries and their respective subsidiaries. An impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets may result in significant charge to earnings. We may in the future identify a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting which could impact overall investor confidence and the value of our common stock. Changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations, could adversely affect our effective tax rates and negatively affect our business and financial condition. Our effective tax rate depends on our ability to secure the tax benefits of our international corporate structure, on the application of the tax laws of various jurisdictions and on how we operate our business. Our subsidiaries may record significant valuation allowances on our deferred tax assets, which may have a material impact on our results of operations. The IRS may assert positions that may negatively impact the tax-free status of distributions intended to qualify for tax-free treatment, and the desired benefits of such distributions may not be achieved. The investment of our cash, cash equivalents and investments in marketable debt and equity securities is subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. New governmental regulations or new interpretations of existing laws may weaken patent protection or copyright law that could cause legal uncertainties and result in harm to our business. Failure to safeguard the security and privacy of our customers confidential data and remain in compliance with laws that govern such data may harm our reputation and brand and expose us to legal action. 24 Current and future governmental and industry standards may significantly limit our business opportunities. Our activities to advertise, market and sell our services directly to consumers are highly impacted by constantly evolving state and federal laws and regulations. Some software we provide may be subject to open source licenses, which may restrict how we use or distribute our software or require that we release the source code of certain products. Seasonal trends may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate and our inability to forecast these trends may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may not pay dividends or pay dividends at a consistent rate. Our stock repurchase program could increase the volatility of the price of our common stock and may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws or Delaware law might delay or prevent a change of control transaction and depress the market price of our stock. Decreased effectiveness of stock-based compensation could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees. Use of our common stock for future acquisitions may be limited. Stock transfer restrictions in our certificate of incorporation may act as an anti-takeover device. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains forum selection provisions limiting the ability of stockholders to bring claims against us and our directors and officers in jurisdictions preferred by stockholders. Risks Relating to the Planned Separation of the IP and Product Businesses We may not be able to complete the planned business separation in a timely manner, and we may not achieve the expected benefits (including the tax treatment) of such transaction. As previously disclosed, we are pursuing a separation of our product business and IP licensing business through a tax-efficient transaction, resulting in two independent, publicly traded companies. We currently project that the separation will be completed in the second half of 2022. We currently anticipate that the business separation transaction will be achieved through a pro-rata spin-off transaction intended to qualify as tax-free under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, in which our stockholders, at such time, would receive shares of capital stock in the resulting spun-off company. Our board may ultimately determine to abandon this planned business separation transaction, and such determination could have an adverse impact on the value of our company and stock price. Additionally, a successful separation of a large and complex organization such as ours requires comprehensive and careful planning and analysis of various considerations, including the capital structure of the two businesses and allocation of liabilities among them. As such, there are many factors that could impact the structure or timing of, the anticipated benefits from, or determination to ultimately proceed with, any planned business separation. These factors include, but are not limited to: global and regional economic conditions; instability in credit markets; declining consumer and business confidence; fluctuating commodity prices and interest rates; volatile exchange rates; tax considerations; competitive and market conditions in our industry; shortage of talent and qualified personnel; and changes in the regulatory or legal environment. These and other factors could adversely impact the value of a planned business separation transaction to our stockholders. Additionally, the consummation of such transaction is a complex, costly and time-consuming process, and there can be no guarantee that such separation will be completed in accordance with the timeline that we establish or achieve the intended benefits (including the tax treatment). An inability to realize the full extent of the anticipated benefits (including the tax treatment) of the planned business separation, as well as any delays encountered in the process, could have an adverse effect upon the revenue, level of expenses and operating results of the product business and/or the IP licensing business. We may not be able to rationalize and effectively manage our disparate business operations, which may cause us to dispose of or discontinue product lines, technologies, assets or operations if they do not fit into the strategic vision or meet forecasted results. Our effort to rationalize the disparate business operations could require our management to refocus on certain business operations while disinvesting in others. We have been integrating the respective product and licensing businesses and operating 25 them as separate business units in order to facilitate a potential separation of these units at a later date. Additionally, as business strategy and product markets continue to evolve, we may dispose, discontinue, or divest product lines or business divisions. Disposing or discontinuing existing product lines or business divisions, or separating business units, provides no assurance that operating expenses will be reduced or will not cause us to incur material charges associated with such decision s . Furthermore, the disposition or discontinuance of an existing product line or business division, or separation or spinoff of a business unit, entails various risks, including the risk of not being able to obtain a purchaser, or, if obtained, that the purchase price may not be equal to at least the net asset book value for the product line or business unit, or the value that investors place on it as reflected by our stock price. We may not be able to achieve any separation of our product and licensing businesses despite our current consideration of such a separation. Other risks of such actions include adversely affecting employee morale, managing the expectations of, and maintaining good relations with, customers of disposed or discontinued product lines or business divisions, which could prevent selling other products to them. We may also incur other significant liabilities and costs associated with disposal or discontinuance of product lines or business divisions, or separation of business units, including employee severance costs, relocation expenses, and impairment of lease obligations and long-lived assets. The effects of such actions may adversely impact our business operations and financial results. Risks Relating to Our Business Operations Our business and results of operations have been, and are expected to continue to be, impacted by the global COVID-19 pandemic. Our business and results of operations have been adversely affected by the global COVID-19 pandemic and related events and we expect its impact to continue. The impact to date has included periods of significant volatility in various markets and industries. The volatility has had, and we anticipate it will continue to have, an adverse effect on our customers and on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and may result in an impairment of our long-lived assets, including goodwill, increased credit losses and impairments of investments in other companies. In particular, the automotive market, as well as the broad consumer electronics industry, has been and may continue to be impacted by the pandemic and/or other events beyond our control, and further volatility could have an additional negative impact on these industries, customers, and on our business operations, which may lead to reduced royalty revenue. In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic and, to a lesser extent, U.S. restrictions on trade with certain customers based on China, have impacted and may continue to impact the financial conditions of our customers who may not be able to satisfy their obligations under our agreements timely or at all. In addition, actions by United States federal, state and local governments, as well as by foreign governments, to address the COVID-19 pandemic, including travel bans, stay-at-home orders and school, business and entertainment venue closures, also had a significant adverse effect on the markets in which we conduct our businesses. COVID-19 poses the risk that our workforce, suppliers, and other partners may be prevented from conducting normal business activities for an extended period of time, including due to shutdowns or stay-at-home orders that may be requested or mandated by governmental authorities. We also implemented policies to allow our employees to work remotely as a result of the pandemic as we reviewed processes related to workplace safety, including social distancing and sanitation practices recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic could also cause delays in acquiring new customers and executing renewals and could also impact our business as consumer behavior changes in response to the slowed economic conditions. The rapid spread of the highly contagious Delta and Omicron variants of COVID-19 have led to periodic spikes in COVID-19 cases, hospitalizations and deaths in various jurisdictions in which we operate. Businesses and consumers have been adjusting their plans to comply with renewed and evolving mask and vaccine mandates, travel restrictions, event cancellations and delayed office reopenings. Our operations and those of our customers have also been negatively impacted by certain recent trends arising from the COVID-19 pandemic, including labor market constraints, shortage of semiconductor components and manufacturing capacities, and delays in shipments, product development and product launches. In addition, the widespread supply chain disruption has and is expected to continue to impede global and regional economic activities, such as consumer spending and product availabilities, which may adversely affect our business operations and financial results. Moreover, the COVID-19 pandemic, its related impact, and United States federal, state and foreign government policies enacted to combat the pandemic have contributed to a recent rise of inflation that may increase the cost of our operations and reduce demand for our products and services, which may adversely affect our financial performance. The full extent of the future impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operational and financial performance is uncertain and will depend on many factors beyond our control, including, without limitation, the timing, extent, trajectory and duration of the pandemic; the availability, distribution and effectiveness of vaccines; the spread of new variants of COVID-19; the continued and renewed imposition of protective public safety measures; the continuing global disruption in supply chains in our industries and the impact of the pandemic on the global economy, inflation and demand for consumer products. Even after the pandemic has subsided and economic activities gradually increase, we may continue to experience material and adverse impacts to our 26 business, operating results, and financial condition as a result of the pandemics lasting global economic impact, including any recession that has occurred or may occur in the future in our industries or continuing inflationary impacts. We enter into license agreements that have fixed expiration dates and if, upon expiration or termination, we are unable to renew or replace such license agreements on terms favorable to us, our results of operations could be harmed. We enter into license agreements that have fixed expiration dates. Upon expiration of such agreements we need to renew or replace these agreements in order to maintain our royalty base. If we are unable to replace the royalties from an expiring license, either through a renewal or with similar royalties from other customers, our results of operations could be adversely impacted as compared to periods prior to such expiration. Furthermore, we may not be able to continue licensing customers on terms favorable to us, under the existing terms or at all, which would harm our results of operations. While we have expanded our licensable technology portfolio through internal development and patents purchased from third parties, there is no guarantee that these measures will lead to continued royalties. If we fail to continue to do business with our current licensees, our business would be materially adversely affected. The nature of some of our business relationships may restrict our ability to operate freely in the future and could be interpreted in a manner that adversely affects revenue, including from licensing, under those agreements . From time to time, we have engaged and may engage in the future in discussions with other parties concerning business relationships, which have included and may in the future include exclusivity provisions (such as geographic or product specific limitations), most favored customer limitations, and patent licensing arrangements. While we believe that such business relationships have historically enhanced our ability to finance and develop our business model or otherwise were justified by the terms of the particular relationship, the terms and conditions of such business relationships may place some restrictions on the operation of our business, including where we operate, who we work with, and what kinds of activities we may engage in. Additionally, some of our license agreements contain "most favored nation" clauses, which typically provide that if we enter into an agreement with another licensee on more favorable terms, we must offer some of those terms to our existing licensees. We have entered into a number of license agreements with terms that differ in some respects from those contained in other agreements. These agreements may obligate us to provide different, more favorable, terms to licensees, which could, if applied, result in lower revenue or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. While we believe that we have appropriately complied with the most favored nation terms included in our license agreements, these contracts are complex and other parties could reach a different conclusion that, if enforced, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. The success of our IP licensing business is dependent on the quality of our patent assets and our ability to create and implement new technologies or expand our licensable technology through acquisitions. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from patent licenses and royalties, including structured settlement payments. The success of our patent licensing business depends on our ability to continue to develop and acquire high quality patents. We devote significant resources to developing new technologies and to developing and acquiring patents to address the evolving needs of the media and semiconductor industries, and we must continue to do so in the future to remain competitive. Developments in our technologies are inherently complex and require long development cycles and a substantial investment before we can determine their commercial viability. Moreover, competition for acquiring high quality patents is intense and there is no assurance that we can continue to acquire such patents on favorable terms. We may not be able to develop and market new or improved technologies, or to develop or acquire high quality patents, in a timely or commercially acceptable fashion. Furthermore, our patents will expire in the future. Our current U.S. issued patents expire at various times through 2040. We need to develop or acquire successful innovations and obtain royalty-generating patents on those innovations before our current patents expire, and our failure to do so would significantly harm our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The structure and timing of our license and settlement agreements may cause fluctuations in our quarterly or annual financial results. From time to time we enter into license and settlement agreements that include pricing or payment terms that result in quarter-to-quarter or year-over-year fluctuations in our revenue and cash flows. The effect of these terms may also cause our aggregate annual revenue to grow less rapidly than annual growth in the applicable end market. Additionally, our customers may fail to pay, delay payment of or underpay what they owe to us under our license and settlement agreements, which may in turn require us to enforce our contractual rights through legal proceedings, resulting in payment amounts and timing different than expected based on the terms of our license and settlement agreements. This also may cause our revenue and cash flows to fluctuate on a quarter-to-quarter or year-over-year basis. 27 Some of our Semiconductor IP license agreements may convert to fully paid-up licenses at the expiration of their terms, or upon certain milestones, and we may not receive royalties after that time. From time to time we enter into Semiconductor IP license agreements that automatically convert to fully paid-up licenses upon expiration or upon reaching certain milestones. We may not receive further royalties from customers for any licensed technology under those agreements if they convert to fully paid-up licenses because such customers will be entitled to continue using some, if not all, of the relevant intellectual property or technology under the terms of the license agreements without further payment, even if relevant patents or technologies are still in effect. If we cannot find another source of royalties to replace the royalties from these license agreements converting to fully paid-up licenses, our results of operations following such conversion would be materially adversely affected. The long-term success of our business is dependent on a royalty-based business model, which is inherently risky. The long-term success of our business is dependent on future royalties paid to us by customers. Royalty payments under our licenses may be based upon, among other things, the number of subscribers for Pay-TV, a percent of net sales, a per-unit sold basis or a fixed quarterly or annual amount. We are dependent upon our ability to structure, negotiate and enforce agreements for the determination and payment of royalties, as well as upon our customers compliance with their agreements. We face risks inherent in a royalty-based business model, many of which are outside of our control, such as the following: the number of subscribers our Pay-TV customers have or the number of set top-boxes our Pay-TV customers provide to their end-user subscribers; the rate of adoption and incorporation of our technology by semiconductor manufacturers, assemblers, foundries, manufacturers of consumer and communication electronics, and the automotive and surveillance industry; the willingness and ability of suppliers to produce materials and equipment that support our licensed technology in a quantity sufficient to enable volume manufacturing; the ability of our customers to purchase such materials and equipment on a cost-effective and timely basis; the length of the design cycle and the ability of us and our customers to successfully integrate certain of our imaging technologies into their integrated circuits; the demand for products that incorporate our licensed technology; the cyclicality of supply and demand for products using our licensed technology; the impact of economic downturns; and the impact of poor financial performance of our customers. For example, the ability to enjoy digital entertainment content downloaded or streamed over the internet has caused some consumers to elect to cancel their Pay-TV subscriptions. If our Pay-TV customers are unable to maintain their subscriber bases, the royalties they owe us may decline. Our licensees may delay, refuse to or be unable to make payments to us due to financial difficulties or otherwise, or shift their licensed products to other companies to lower their royalties to us. A number of our customers may face severe financial difficulties from time to time, which may result in their inability to make payments to us in a timely manner, or at all. In addition, we have had a history of, and we may in the future experience, customers that delay or refuse to make payments owed to us under license or settlement agreements. Our customers may also merge with or may shift the manufacture of licensed products to companies that are not currently licensees of our technology. This could make the collection process complex, difficult and costly, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. It is difficult for us to verify royalty amounts owed to us under our licensing agreements, and this may cause us to lose revenue. The terms of our license agreements often require our customers to document their use of our technology and report related data to us on a quarterly basis. Although our license terms generally give us the right to audit books and records of our customers to verify this information, audits can be expensive, time consuming, and may not be cost justified based on our understanding of our customers businesses, especially given the international nature of our customers. Our license compliance program audits certain customers to review the accuracy of the information contained in their royalty reports in an effort to decrease the likelihood that we will not receive the royalty to which we are entitled under the terms of our license agreements, but we cannot give assurances that such audits will be effective to that end. 28 If we fail to develop and timely deliver innovative technologies and services in response to changes in our markets and industries, our business could decline. The markets for our products, services and technologies are characterized by rapid change and technological evolution and obsolescence, new and improved product introduction, changing consumer demand, increasingly competitive landscape, and evolving industry standards. We will need to continue to expend considerable resources on research and development in the future in order to continue to design, deliver and enhance innovative audio, imaging, media, entertainment, and semiconductor products, services and technologies. The development of enhanced and new technologies, products, and services is a complex, costly and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation, highly skilled engineering and development personnel, and the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. Despite our efforts, we: may not receive significant revenue from our current research and development efforts for several years, if at all; cannot assure you that the level of funding and significant resources we are committing for investments in new products, services and technologies will be sufficient or result in successful new products, services or technologies; cannot assure you that our newly developed products, services or technologies can be successfully protected as proprietary intellectual property rights or will not infringe the intellectual property rights of others; cannot assure you that any new products or services that we develop will achieve market acceptance; cannot prevent our products, services and technologies from becoming obsolete due to rapid advancements in technology and changes in consumer preferences; cannot assure you that revenue from new products, services or technologies will offset any decline in revenue from our products, services and technologies which may become obsolete; cannot assure you that our competitors and/or potential customers may not develop products, services or technologies similar to those developed by us, resulting in a reduction in the potential demand for our newly developed products, services or technologies; and may not correctly identify new or changing market trends at an early enough stage to capitalize on market opportunities. Furthermore, the decision by a party dominant in the value chain to provide competing technologies at very low or no cost could cause our customers and other manufacturers not to utilize our technologies or services. Our customers may choose to use technologies that their own in-house engineering teams have developed, or in which they have an interest. Accordingly, our revenue could decline if our customers choose not to incorporate our technologies in their products, or if they sell fewer products incorporating our technologies. Our failure to successfully develop new and improved products, services and technologies, including as a result of any of the risks described above, may reduce our future growth and profitability and may adversely affect our business, results and financial condition. Our products and services face intense competition from various sources, and we may not be able to compete effectively. We expect that our technologies will continue to compete with technologies of internal design groups at competing companies or from our customers. The internal design groups of these companies create their own audio, imaging, media and semiconductor solutions. If these internal design groups design around our patents or introduce unique solutions superior to our technology, they may not need to license our technology. These groups may design technology that is less expensive to implement or that enables products with higher performance or additional features. Many of these groups have substantially greater resources, greater financial strength and lower cost structures which may allow them to undercut our price. They also have the inherent advantage of access to internal corporate strategies, technology roadmaps and technical information. As a result, they may be able to bring alternative solutions to market more easily and quickly. We face competitive risks across all our businesses, including: our Platform Solutions face significant competition from companies that produce and market program guides as well as television schedule information in a variety of formats, including passive and interactive on-screen electronic guide services, online listings, over the top applications and against customers and potential customers who choose to build their own IPG, including both those who do and those who do not elect to license our patents; our advanced video solutions compete with other CE products and home entertainment services (such as Roku, AppleTV, Amazon FireTV and Chromecast) as well as products and service offerings built by other service providers or their suppliers for consumer spending; our audio technologies compete with other providers of audio products and services, with Dolby Laboratories as the primary competitor in high-definition audio processing, which enjoys advantages in selling its digital multi-channel audio technology, having introduced such technology before we did, and having achieved mandatory standard status in product categories that we have not, including terrestrial digital TV broadcasts in the United States; 29 our embedded image processing technologies compete with other image processing software vendors such as SmartEye , Seeing Machines and ArcSoft , Inc. , as well as internal design groups of automotive, mobile phone , and digital camera manufacturers providing similar technologies by employing different approaches; and our competitive position is affected by the rate of adoption and incorporation of our technology by semiconductor manufacturers, assemblers, foundry, manufacturers of consumer and communication electronics, and the automotive and surveillance industry. In the future, our licensed technologies may also compete with other emerging technologies that may be less expensive and provide higher performance than our solutions. Companies with these competing technologies may also have greater resources. Technological change could render our technologies obsolete, and new, competitive technologies could emerge that achieve broad adoption and adversely affect the use of our technologies and intellectual property. Some of our current or future competitors may have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do, may enjoy greater brand recognition than we do, or may have more experience or advantages than we have in the markets in which they compete. Further, many of the consumer hardware and software products that include our technologies also include technologies developed by our competitors. In order for us to remain competitive in this market, we must continue to invest significant resources in product development in order to enhance our technologies and our existing products and services and introduce new high-quality technologies, products and services to meet the wide variety of such competitive pressures. Our ability to generate revenue from our business will suffer if we fail to do so successfully. We face competitive risks in the provision of entertainment offerings involving the distribution of digital content provided by third party application providers through broadband. We have previously launched access in certain of our products and services to the entertainment offerings of Amazon Prime Video, Netflix, Hulu Plus, HBO Max, Disney+, VUDU, Pandora, and others for the distribution of digital content directly to broadband-connected TiVo devices. These entertainment offerings typically involve no significant long-term commitments. We face competitive, technological and business risks in our ongoing provision of entertainments offering involving the distribution of digital content through broadband to consumer televisions with such offerings, including the availability of premium and high-definition content, as well as the speed and quality of the delivery of such content to TiVo devices. For instance, we face increased competition from a growing number of broadband-enabled devices from providers such as Roku, AppleTV, Amazon FireTV and Chromecast that provide broadband delivered digital content directly to a consumer's television connected to such a device. Additionally, we face competition from online content providers and other PC software providers who deliver digital content directly to a consumer's personal computer, which in some cases may then be viewed on a consumer's television. If we are unable to provide a competitive entertainment offering on our own, or an equivalent offering with other third parties, the attractiveness of the TiVo service to new subscribers would be harmed as consumers increasingly look for new ways to receive and view digital content and our ability to retain and attract subscribers would be harmed. Our future success depends on our ability to establish and maintain licensing relationships with companies in related business fields, including: Pay-TV service providers; operators of entertainment content distributors, including PPV and VOD networks; CE, digital set-top hardware manufacturers, DVD hardware manufacturers and personal computer manufacturers; motion-picture studios; semiconductor and equipment manufacturers; content rights holders; retailers and advertisers; digital rights management suppliers; and internet portals and other digital distribution companies. Substantially all of our license agreements are non-exclusive, and therefore our licensees are free to enter into similar agreements with third parties, including our competitors. Our licensees may develop or pursue alternative technologies either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors. Some of our third-party license arrangements require that we license others' technologies and/or integrate our solutions with others. In addition, we rely on third parties to report usage and volume information to us. Delays, errors or omissions in this information could harm our business. If these third parties choose not to support integration efforts or delay the integration of our solutions, our business could be harmed. 30 Relationships have historically played an important role in the entertainment industries that we serve. If we fail to maintain and strengthen these relationships, these industry participants may not purchase and use our technologies or facilitate the adoption of our technologies, which will harm our results of operations and prospects and may make it more difficult for us to enter into new markets. In addition, if major industry participants form strategic relationships that exclude us, our business and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Our pursuit of acquisitions and divestures may adversely affect our business operations or stock price if we cannot successfully execute our strategies. We have made several acquisitions, domestically and internationally, and it is our current plan to continue to acquire assets, patents, technologies or companies that we believe are strategic to our future business. Acquisitions involve challenges in terms of successful integration of technologies, products, services and employees. If our growth continues, it may place a significant strain on our management team and on our operational and financial systems, procedures, and controls. Our future success will depend, in part, upon the ability of our management team to manage any growth effectively, requiring our management to: recruit, hire, and train additional personnel; implement and improve our operational and financial systems, procedures, and controls; maintain our cost structure at an appropriate level based on the royalties, revenue and cash we forecast and generate; manage multiple concurrent development projects; and manage operations in multiple time zones with different cultures and languages. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of the other acquisitions we may complete in the future, and we may not be able to incorporate any acquired services, products or technologies with our existing operations, or integrate personnel, systems, processes and operations from the acquired businesses, in which case our business could be harmed. Financing for future acquisitions may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. If we use our equity securities to fund the acquisition, it may result in significant dilution to our existing stockholders. If we identify an appropriate acquisition candidate for any of our businesses, we may not be able to negotiate the terms of the acquisition successfully, finance the acquisition or integrate the acquired business, products, service offerings, technologies or employees into our existing business and operations. Future acquisitions and divestitures may not be well-received by the investment community, which may cause the value of our stock to fall. We cannot ensure that we will be able to successfully complete any acquisition or divestiture in the future. Further, the terms of our indebtedness constrain our ability to make and finance additional acquisitions or divestitures. If we are unable to maintain a sufficient amount of content released in the DTS audio format, demand for the technologies, products, and services that we offer to consumer electronics product manufacturers may significantly decline, which would adversely impact our business and prospects. We expect to derive a significant percentage of our revenue from the technologies, products, and services that we offer to manufacturers of consumer electronics products. We believe that demand for our audio technologies in growing markets for multi-channel and/or high resolution audio, including TVs, tablets, mobile phones, video game consoles, automobiles, and soundbars, will be based on the amount, quality, and popularity of content (such as movies, TV shows, music, and games) either released in the DTS audio format or capable of being coded and played in the DTS format. In particular, our ability to penetrate the growing markets in the network-connected space depends on the presence of streaming and downloadable content released in the DTS audio format. We generally do not have contracts that require providers of streaming and downloadable content to develop and release such content in a DTS audio format. Accordingly, our revenue could decline if these providers elect not to incorporate DTS audio into their content or if they sell less content that incorporates DTS audio. In addition, we may not be successful in maintaining existing relationships or developing new relationships with other existing or new content providers. As a result, we cannot assure you that a sufficient amount of content will be released in a DTS audio format to ensure that manufacturers continue offering DTS decoders in the consumer electronics products that they sell. Demand for our HD Radio technology may be insufficient to sustain projected growth. Demand for and adoption of HD Radio technology may not be sufficient for us to continue to increase the number of customers of our HD Radio system, which include IC manufacturers, manufacturers of broadcast transmission equipment, consumer electronics products manufacturers, component manufacturers, data service providers, manufacturers of specialized and test equipment and radio broadcasters. 31 Among other things, continuing and increased consumer acceptance of HD Radio technology will depend upon: the number of radio stations broadcasting digitally using HD Radio technology; the willingness of automobile manufacturers to include HD Radio receivers in their vehicles; the willingness of manufacturers to incorporate HD Radio technology into their products; the cost and availability of HD Radio enabled products; and the marketing and pricing strategies that we employ and that are employed by our customers and retailers. Demand for HD Radio also may be impacted by declines in the automotive industry which historically has been cyclical and experienced downturns during declining economic conditions. In addition, the persistent downturn in the automotive markets resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic and related events reduced demand for our HD Radio technology in 2020. While we have experienced a modest recovery in 2021, there is no guarantee that growth trends will return to our pre-pandemic level, and a sustained reduction in our automotive based royalties may cause us to fail to meet our previously projected growth rates. If we are unable to further penetrate the streaming and downloadable content delivery markets and adapt our technologies for those markets, our royalties and ability to grow our business could be adversely impacted. Prior to the advent of streaming and downloadable content services, video and audio content was purchased and consumed primarily via optical disc-based media. The growth of the internet and network-connected device usage, along with the rapid advancement of online and mobile content delivery, has resulted in download and streaming services becoming mainstream with consumers in various parts of the world. We expect the shift away from optical disc-based media to streaming and downloadable content consumption to continue. If we fail to continue to further penetrate the streaming and downloadable content delivery market, our business could suffer. The services that provide content from the internet are not generally governed by international or national standards and are thus free to choose any media format(s) to deliver their products and services. This freedom of choice on the part of online content providers could limit our ability to grow if such content providers do not incorporate our technologies into their services, which could affect demand for our technologies. Furthermore, our inclusion in mobile and other network-connected devices may be less profitable for us than optical disc players. The online and mobile markets are characterized by intense competition, evolving industry standards and business and distribution models, disruptive software and hardware technology developments, frequent new product and service introductions, short product and service life cycles, and price sensitivity on the part of consumers, all of which may result in downward pressure on pricing. If we are unable to adequately and timely respond to the foregoing, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. The success of certain of our solutions depends on the interoperability of our technologies with consumer hardware devices. To be successful, we design certain of our solutions to interoperate effectively with a variety of consumer hardware devices, including personal computers, DVD players and recorders, Blu-ray players, digital still cameras, digital camcorders, portable media players, digital TVs, home media centers, set-top boxes, video game consoles, MP3 devices, multi-media storage devices, mobile tablets and smartphones. We depend on significant cooperation with manufacturers of these devices and the components integrated into these devices, as well as software providers that create the operating systems for such devices, to incorporate certain of our technologies into their product offerings and ensure consistent playback of encoded files. Currently, a limited number of devices are designed to support certain of our technologies. If we are unsuccessful in causing component manufacturers, device manufacturers and software providers to integrate certain of our technologies into their product offerings, those technologies may become less accessible to consumers, which would adversely affect our revenue potential. Our failure to adequately manage our increasingly complex distribution agreements, including licensing, development and engineering services, may cause unexpected delays and loss of revenue in the deployment of advanced television solutions. In connection with our deployment arrangements for TiVo products, we engage in complex licensing, development and engineering services arrangements with our marketing partners and distributors. These deployment agreements with television service providers usually provide for some or all of the following deliverables: software engineering services, solution integration services, hosting the TiVo Service, maintenance and support. In general, these contracts are long-term and complex and often rely on the timely performance of such television service provider's third-party vendors that are outside TiVo's control. The engineering services and technology we agree to provide and/or develop may be essential to the functionality of the licensed software and delivered product or such software may involve significant customization and modification for each customer. We have experienced in the past, and may in the future experience, delays in delivery with television service providers as well as significant increases in expected costs of development and performance in certain instances. Additional 32 delays could lead to additional costs and adverse accounting treatments forcing us to recognize costs earlier than expected. If we are unable to deliver the contracted-for technology, including specified customizations and modifications, and services in a timely manner or at all, then we could face penalties in the form of unreimbursed engineering development work, loss of subscriber or minimum financial commitments on the part of our partners or in extreme cases the early termination of such distribution agreements. In any such case our business would be harmed. In addition, when we enter into such deployment agreements with television service providers, we are typically required to make cost estimates based on historical experience and various other assumptions. These estimates are assessed continually during the term of the contract and revisions are reflected when the conditions become known. Using different cost estimates related to engineering services may produce materially different operating results, in addition to differences in timing and income statement classification of related expenses and revenue. An unfavorable change in estimates could result in a reduction of profit due to higher cost or the recording of a loss once such a loss becomes known to us that would be borne solely by us. We also recognize revenue for software engineering services using the percentage-of-completion method. We recognize revenue by measuring progress toward completion based on the ratio of costs incurred, principally labor, to total estimated costs of the project, an input method. If we are unable to measure and estimate our progress properly or accurately toward completion in such circumstances, we could incur unexpected additional costs, be required to recognize certain costs earlier than expected, or otherwise be required to delay recognition of revenue unexpectedly. A material inability to properly manage, estimate and perform these development and engineering services for our television service provider customers could cause us to incur unexpected losses and reduce or even eliminate any profit from these arrangements, and in such a case our business would be harmed. We make significant investments in new products and services that may not achieve technological feasibility or profitability or that may limit our growth. We have made and will continue to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing of new technologies, products and services, including audio, imaging, media, advanced semiconductor packaging, bonding, and interconnect technologies, as well as our Perceive subsidiary and its hardware and software solutions for high-performance inference at the edge. Investments in new technologies are speculative and technological feasibility may not be achieved. Commercial success depends on many factors including demand for innovative technology, availability of materials and equipment, selling price the market is willing to bear, competition and effective licensing or product sales. We may not achieve significant revenue from new product and service investments for a number of years, if at all. Moreover, new technologies, products and services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for new products and businesses may not be as high as the margins we have experienced historically or originally anticipated. For example, we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, substantial research and development expenses through our Perceive subsidiary focused on delivering edge inference solutions. We do not have prior experience as a company in the development or marketing of similar hardware or software. We will need to continue to find and hire qualified and experienced personnel to advance this new business. In addition, chip technologies such as what we are developing are subject to extensive competition and a relentless pace of innovation. These new products could be copied or functionally surpassed by other designers, manufacturers, or innovators, some of whom may have far greater financial resources than us, and who may be able to develop products with greater capabilities or lower cost. Our products and services could be susceptible to errors, defects, or unintended performance problems that could result in lost revenue, liability or delayed or limited market acceptance. We develop and offer complex solutions, which we license and otherwise provide to customers. The performance of these solutions typically involves working with sophisticated software, computing and communications systems. Due to the complexity of these products and services, and despite our quality assurance testing, the products may contain undetected defects or errors that may affect the proper use or application of such products or services by the customer. Because certain of our products and services are embedded in digital content and other software, or rely on stable transmissions, our solutions' performance could unintentionally jeopardize our customers' product performance. Because customers rely on our products and services as used in their software and applications, defects or errors in our products or services may discourage customers from purchasing our products or services. These defects or errors could also result in product liability, service level agreement claims or warranty claims. Although we attempt to reduce the risk of losses resulting from these claims through warranty disclaimers and limitation of liability clauses in our agreements, these contractual provisions may not be enforceable in every instance. Any such defects, errors, or unintended performance problems in existing or new products or services, and any inability to meet customer expectations in a timely manner, could result in loss of revenue or market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation, increased insurance costs and increased service costs, any of which could materially harm our business. 33 Dependence on the cooperation of third parties for the provision and delivery of our metadata could adversely affect our revenue. We rely on third party providers to deliver our metadata to some of the CE devices that include our UXs and IPGs. Further, our national data network provides customized and localized listings for Pay-TV and licensees of our data used in third party IPGs for Pay-TV. In addition, we purchase certain metadata from commercial vendors that we redistribute. The quality, accuracy and timeliness of that metadata may not continue to meet our standards or be acceptable to consumers. There can be no assurance that commercial vendors will distribute data to us without error, or at all, or that the agreements that govern some of these relationships can be maintained on favorable economic terms. Technological changes may also impede the ability to distribute metadata. Our inability to renew these existing arrangements on terms that are favorable to us, or enter into alternative arrangements that allow us to effectively transmit our metadata to CE devices, could have a material adverse effect on our CE IPG business and cause our revenue or margins to decline. We distribute, as a revenue generating activity, metadata. In the future, we may not be able to obtain this content, or may not be able to obtain it on the same terms. Such a failure to obtain the content, or obtain it on the same terms, could damage the attractiveness of our metadata offerings to our customers, or could increase the costs associated with providing our metadata offerings, and could thus cause revenue or margins to decrease. We depend on a limited number of third parties to design, manufacture, distribute and supply hardware devices upon which our TiVo software and service operate. Our TiVo software and services operate on a number of hardware products, including DVR and non-DVR STBs, produced by third-party hardware companies. If we fail to effectively manage the integration of our software and services with our hardware partners' devices, we could suffer from product recalls, poorly performing product and higher than anticipated warranty costs. We have contracted for the design, manufacture and distribution of certain TiVo-branded DVRs and non-DVRs with a third-party partner. This third-party partner does not typically enter into long-term volume commitments with the major retail distributors. We currently rely on our TiVo-branded hardware partner's relationships with major retail distributors, including Best Buy, Amazon and others, for the distribution of TiVo-enabled DVRs and non-DVR products within the United States. If one or several major retail partners were to discontinue selling TiVo-enabled products, the volume of TiVo-enabled DVRs and non-DVRs sold to consumers could decrease, which could harm TiVos service business. We also depend on a third-party partner for certain TiVo-branded hardware devices that are sold through the TiVo website. If this third-party partner fails to perform its obligations, we may be unable to find alternative suppliers or deliver our products and services sold through the TiVo website in a timely manner or with the features and functionality customers expect. In addition, our third-party partner may depend on sole suppliers for key components and services in order to manufacture DVRs and non-DVR STBs which run our software, and they may be subject to risks of supply shortages and unexpected cost increases, including the recent supply chain disruption resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. Additionally, certain features and functionalities of our TiVo service and DVRs depend on third-party components and technologies. If TiVo or our third-party partner is unable to purchase or license such third-party components or technologies, we may not be able to offer certain related features and functionalities to our customers. In such a case, the desirability of our products to our customers could be reduced, thus harming our business. We also rely on third parties to whom we outsource supply-chain activities related to inventory warehousing, order fulfillment, distribution and other direct sales logistics to provide cost-effective and efficient supply chain services. We cannot be sure that these parties will perform their obligations as expected or that any revenue, cost savings or other benefits will be derived from the efforts of these parties. If one or several of our third-party supply chain partners were to discontinue service to us, our ability to fulfill sales orders through the TiVo website and distribute inventory timely, cost-effectively, or at all, may be delayed or prevented, which could harm our business. Any of these events could require us to undertake unforeseen additional responsibilities or devote additional resources to commercialize our TiVo service. Any of these outcomes could harm our ability to compete effectively and achieve increased market acceptance and brand recognition. We maintain inventories of TiVo-branded products based on our demand forecast, which may be incorrect and lead to excess or insufficient inventory. In connection with our sales of TiVo-branded products through the TiVo website, we maintain an inventory of certain DVR and non-DVR products based on our demand forecast. Due to the seasonality in our business and the nature of long-lead time product development and manufacturing cycles, we make demand forecasts for these products well in advance of our peak selling periods. As such, we are subject to risks in managing the inventory needs of our business during the year, including estimating the appropriate quantity and mix of demand across our older and newer DVR and non-DVR products. Should actual market conditions differ from our estimates, our future results of operations could be materially affected. Our ability to forecast 34 demand accurately and maintain appropriate inventory may also be adversely affected by factors that are difficult to predict, such as global supply chain disruptions. Excess purchase commitments as a result of unforeseen changes in our sales forecast, pricing terms or cost structures may require us to record a loss that may adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations. Qualifying, certifying and supporting our technologies, products and services is time-consuming and expensive. We devote significant time and resources to qualify and support our software products on various personal computer, CE and mobile platforms, including operating systems from Apple, Google and Microsoft. In addition, we maintain high-quality standards for products that incorporate our technologies and products through a quality control certification process. To the extent that any previously qualified, certified and/or supported platform or product is modified or upgraded, or we need to qualify, certify or support a new platform or product, we could be required to expend additional engineering time and resources, which could add significantly to our development expenses and adversely affect our operating results. We are exposed to the risks related to international sales and operations. We derive a large portion of our total revenue from operations outside of the United States. Therefore, we face exposure to risks of operating in many foreign countries, including: difficulties and costs associated with complying with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties, regulations and compliance requirements; unexpected changes in political or regulatory environments; differing employment practices, labor compliance and costs associated with a global workforce; earnings and cash flows that may be subject to tax withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs; exchange controls or other restrictions; restrictions on, or difficulties and costs associated with, the repatriation of cash from foreign countries to the United States; political and economic instability and trade conflict; import and export restrictions and other trade barriers; difficulties in maintaining overseas subsidiaries and international operations; difficulties in obtaining approval for significant transactions; and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Any one or more of the above factors could adversely affect our international operations and could significantly affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The results of our operations will be dependent to a large extent upon the global economy. Geopolitical factors such as terrorist activities, armed conflict or global health conditions that adversely affect the global economy may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We are also subject to risks associated with compliance with applicable anti-corruption laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), which generally prohibits companies and their employees and intermediaries from making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining an advantage or benefits, and requires public companies to maintain accurate books and records and a system of internal accounting controls. Under these laws, companies may be held liable for actions taken by directors, officers, employees, agents, or other partners or representatives. If we or our intermediaries fail to comply with the requirements of the FCPA or similar laws, governmental authorities could commence an investigation or seek to impose civil and criminal fines and penalties which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, our business could be materially adversely affected if foreign markets do not continue to develop, if we do not receive additional orders to supply our technologies, products or services for use by international Pay-TV service providers, CE and STB manufacturers, PPV/VOD providers and others or if regulations governing our international businesses change. Any changes to the statutes or the regulations with respect to export of encryption technologies could require us to redesign our products or technologies or prevent us from selling and exporting our products and licensing our technologies internationally. Further deterioration of trade relations between the United States and China, other trade conflicts and barriers, economic sanctions, and national security protection policies could limit or prevent existing or potential customers from doing business with us. The increased trade conflicts between the United States and its major trading partners in recent years, evidenced by trade restrictions such as tariffs, taxes, export controls, economic sanctions, and enhanced policies designed to protect national 35 security, have had and may continue to have adverse impact on our revenue if such policies continue. In particular, our business and sales activities have been impacted due to the increase in trade conflicts between the United States and China. Further United States government actions to protect domestic economic and security interests could lead to further restrictions. Moreover, growing trade conflicts and uncertainties may lead to decreased use of foreign-owned technologies in China and other countries, due to efforts by foreign governments and enterprises to find alternative sources of supply, to develop proprietary domestic technologies, and otherwise to reduce reliance on foreign technology sources. Any such trends could have a material adverse impact on our revenue. Our systems, networks and online business activities and those of third parties that we utilize in our operations are subject to cybersecurity and stability risks, information technology system failures, and security breaches. Despite our provisions for system redundancy and the implementation of security measures within our internal and external information technology and networking systems, our information technology systems and those of third parties that we utilize in our operations may be subject to security breaches, unauthorized access (malicious or accidental), misuse of information by authorized users, data leaks or unintentional exposure of information, failed processes or other bugs, loss of data, damages from computer viruses or malware, natural disasters, terrorism, telecommunication failures or disruption of service. In addition, our online business activities depend on the ability to store and transmit confidential information and licensed intellectual property securely on our systems, third party systems and over private, hybrid and public networks. Any compromise of our ability to store or transmit such information and data securely or reliably, and any costs associated with preventing or eliminating such problems, could harm our business. Our storage and online transmissions and business activities are subject to a number of security and stability risks, including: our own or licensed encryption and authentication technology, or access or security procedures, may be compromised, breached or otherwise be insufficient to ensure the security of customer information or intellectual property; we could experience unauthorized access, computer viruses, ransomware, system interference or destruction, denial of service attacks and other disruptive problems, whether intentional or accidental, that may inhibit or prevent access to our websites and infrastructure or use of our products and services, or cause customer information or other sensitive information to be disclosed to a perpetrator, others or the general public; someone could circumvent our security measures and misappropriate our, our information, or our customers' proprietary information or content, interrupt operations, or jeopardize our licensing arrangements, many of which are contingent on our sustaining appropriate security protections; our computer systems could fail and lead to service interruptions or downtime for television or other guidance systems, or websites, which may include e-commerce websites; we could inadvertently disclose customer information; or we may need to grow, reconfigure or relocate our data centers in response to changing business needs, which may be costly and lead to unplanned disruptions of service. Each of the foregoing risks also applies to the computer systems of third parties that we rely upon in our operations, including our suppliers and vendors, including providers of cloud storage and services. The occurrence of any of these or similar events could damage our business, hurt our ability to distribute products and services and collect revenue, threaten the proprietary or confidential nature of our technology, harm our reputation, increase the costs of our ongoing cybersecurity protections and enhancements, and expose us to litigation and other liabilities. Because some of our technologies and businesses are intended to inhibit use of or restrict access to our customers' intellectual property, we may become the target of hackers or other persons whose use of, or access to, our customers' intellectual property is affected by our technologies. Also, hackers may, for financial gain or other motives, seek to infiltrate or damage our systems, or obtain sensitive business information or customer information. We also may be exposed to customer claims, or other liability, in connection with any security breach or inadvertent disclosure. We may be required to expend significant capital or other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches, hacker attacks or system malfunctions or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches, attacks or failures. For example, we utilize SolarWinds for network device management. SolarWinds announced in December 2020 that its system was infected with malicious software during 2020, which might have impacted its customers. We implemented software patches and other security measures recommended by SolarWinds and other security experts in connection with this matter. While we do not believe we were targeted by malicious actors through the SolarWinds system, and we found no evidence that any of our information was exfiltrated from our systems, there is no guarantee that future hacks and attacks on the network will be unsuccessful or resolved without damage to us or our customers. Our product and service offerings rely on a variety of systems, networks and databases, many of which are maintained by us at our data centers or third-party data centers (e.g., cloud services). We do not have complete redundancy for all of our systems, and we do not maintain real-time back-up of our data, so in the event of significant system disruption, particularly during peak periods, we could experience loss of data processing capabilities, which could prevent us from providing our products and services to our customers for an uncertain amount of time, cause us to lose customers as a result of such breaches, and could 36 harm our operating results through loss of revenue and increased costs to remediate such cybersecurity incidents. Notwithstanding our efforts to protect against down time for products and services, we do occasionally experience unplanned outages or technical difficulties. In order to provide products and services, we must protect the security of our systems, networks, databases and software. Furthermore, we do not have control over the security protocols of third party cloud service providers, and if such providers experience cyber attacks and information system breaches, it can harm our business operations and undercut our ability to serve our customers, which may adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in inappropriate disclosure of our confidential information, we may incur liability or additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches. Risks Related to Financial Matters We have significant indebtedness which could adversely affect our financial position. As of December 31, 2021, we had $789.8 million of total debt outstanding under our Refinanced Term B Loans. Our Refinanced Term B Loans are guaranteed by us and our wholly-owned material domestic subsidiaries and are secured by substantially all of our and the subsidiary guarantors' assets. Our indebtedness may: limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; limit our ability to use our cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments; limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. Our variable rate indebtedness may expose us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt costs to increase significantly. As of December 31, 2021, we had $789.8 million of outstanding indebtedness that was subject to floating interest rates. Changes in economic conditions outside of our control could result in higher interest rates, thereby increasing our interest expense and reducing the funds available for capital investment, operations or other purposes. At December 31, 2021, a 1% increase in the effective interest rate on our outstanding debt throughout a one-year period would result in an annual increase in our interest expense of approximately $7.9 million. Any significant increase in our interest expense could negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows and also our ability to pay dividends in the future. If the U.S. Federal Reserve raises its benchmark interest rate, as currently anticipated by many banking analysts, any increases would likely impact the borrowing rate on our outstanding indebtedness and increase our interest expense. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our debt obligations. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness when due. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to timely fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of cash flows and capital resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our Credit Agreement restricts our ability to dispose of assets, use the proceeds from any disposition of assets and refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to maximize the proceeds that we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. 37 Repayment of debt is dependent on cash flow generated by our subsidiaries and their respective subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries own a significant portion of our assets and conduct substantially all of our operations. Each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. Additionally, distributions from our non-U.S. subsidiaries may be subject to foreign withholding taxes and would be subject to U.S. federal and state income tax which could reduce the net cash available for principal and interest payments. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which could increase our operating costs and affect our ability to operate our business. We have a complex business that is international in scope. Ensuring that we have adequate internal