Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion is intended to promote understanding of the results of operations and financial condition and should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto, and with our audited financial statements and notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2022 found in the Form 10-K filed by us on March 1, 2023 (the Form 10-K). This section of this Form 10-Q generally discusses quarter over quarter comparisons of 2023 against 2022. Except where otherwise indicated, the quarter over quarter comparisons and results of operations discussed herein present the results of Adeia Inc. after giving effect to the Separation described herein. This quarterly report on Form 10-Q (this Quarterly Report) contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to the safe harbor provisions created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In this context, forward-looking statements often address expected future business, financial performance and financial condition, and often contain words such as "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "believe," "could," "seek," "see," "will," "may," "would," "might," "potentially," "estimate," "continue," "target," similar expressions or the negatives of these words or other comparable terminology that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes. All forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that involve risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, and are not guarantees of future results. These and other forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Accordingly, there are or will be important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in such statements and, therefore, you should not place undue reliance on any such statements and caution must be exercised in relying on forward-looking statements. Important risk factors that may cause such a difference include, but are not limited to: our ability to implement our business strategy; our ability to enter into new and renewal license agreements with customers on favorable terms; our ability to retain and hire key personnel; uncertainty as to the long-term value of our common stock; legislative, regulatory and economic developments affecting our business; general economic and market developments and conditions; our ability to grow and expand our patent portfolios; changes in technology and development of competing technology in the industries in which we operate; the evolving legal, regulatory and tax regimes under which we operate; unforeseen liabilities and expenses; risks associated with our indebtedness; unpredictability and severity of catastrophic events, including, but not limited to, acts of terrorism or outbreak of war or hostilities, including Russias invasion of Ukraine, and natural disasters; our ability to achieve the intended benefits of, and our ability to recognize the anticipated tax treatment of, the recent spin-off of our product business; and the extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic continues to have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition will depend on future developments, including measures taken in response to the pandemic, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. Although forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report reflect the good faith judgment of our management, such statements can only be based on facts and factors currently known by us. Consequently, forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks, uncertainties, and changes in condition, significance, value and effect, including those discussed under the heading Risk Factors in documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), such as our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our current reports on Form 8-K. Such risks, uncertainties and changes in condition, significance, value and effect could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed herein and in ways not readily foreseeable. Readers are urged not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report and are based on information currently and reasonably known to us. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements in order to reflect any event or circumstance that may arise after the date of this Quarterly Report, other than as required by law. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this Quarterly Report, which attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Business Overview On October 1, 2022, Adeia Inc. (formerly known as Xperi Holding Corporation) (Adeia, we) completed the previously announced separation (the Separation) of its product business into an independent, publicly-traded company, Xperi Inc. (Xperi Inc.). The Separation was structured as a spin-off, which was achieved through Adeias distribution of 100 percent of the outstanding shares of Xperi Inc.s common stock to holders of Adeias common stock as of the close of business on the record date of September 21, 2022 (the Record Date). Each Adeia stockholder of record received four shares of Xperi Inc. common stock for every ten shares of Adeia common stock that it held on the Record Date. Following the Separation, Adeia retains no ownership interest in Xperi Inc., which is now listed under the ticker symbol XPER on the New York Stock Exchange. Effective at the open of business on October 3, 2022, Adeia's shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share, began trading on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the new ticker symbol ADEA. 30 Following the Separation, we are a leading IP licensing platform in the consumer and entertainment space, with a diverse portfolio of media and semiconductor intellectual property and more than 9,950 patents and patent applications worldwide. In order to serve an increasingly connected world, we invent, develop, and license fundamental innovations that enhance billions of devices and shape the way millions of people explore and experience entertainment. Through our IP licensing business, we help enable extraordinary experiences at home and on the go for millions of consumers around the world, with IP that helps elevate content and improves how audiences connect with it in a way that is more intelligent, immersive and personal. Through providing the IP that helps to power smart devices, entertainment experiences and more, we have created a unified ecosystem that reaches highly-engaged consumers and uncovered new business opportunities. Headquartered in Silicon Valley with more than 35 years of operating experience, we have approximately 120 employees, with substantially all of our employees located in the U.S. COVID-19 Impact and Macroeconomic Conditions The COVID-19 pandemic has had, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on our business. The impact to date has included periods of significant volatility in the markets we serve, in particular the broad consumer electronics market. The pandemic has also caused challenges and delays in acquiring new customers and executing license renewals. These factors have negatively impacted our financial condition and results of operations, which may result in an impairment of our long-lived assets, including goodwill, and increased credit losses. Further, our operations and those of our customers have also been negatively impacted by certain trends arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic and macroeconomic, including labor market constraints, shortages of semiconductor components, decreased manufacturing capacities and delays in shipments, product development and product launches. Moreover, since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, United States federal, state and foreign government policies enacted to combat the pandemic have contributed to a recent rise of inflation that has increased, and may continue to increase, the cost of our operations and have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on demand for our customers' products and services and in turn our licensing revenues, which has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our financial performance. Although a significant portion of our revenue is derived from fixed-fee and minimum-guarantee arrangements from large, well-capitalized customers, our per-unit and variable-fee based revenue will continue to be susceptible to the volatility, labor shortages, supply chain disruptions, microchip shortages and market downturns precipitated by the COVID-19 pandemic. The impact of the pandemic on our overall results of operations remains uncertain for the foreseeable future. Further discussion of COVID-19s potential impact on our business is provided under Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors of the Form 10-K and in Part II, Item 5 Risk Factors of this Form 10-Q. Key Developments The accounting requirements for reporting the Separation of Xperi Inc. as a discontinued operation were met when the Separation was completed on October 1, 2022. Accordingly, the financial results of Xperi Inc. for the three months ended March 31, 2022 are presented as net loss from discontinued operations, net of tax on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. Unless noted otherwise, the discussion of our results of operations pertain to continuing operations. Additionally, the operating results from continuing operations for all periods presented and those prior to the Separation, include certain general corporate overhead costs that do not meet the requirements to be presented in discontinued operations, although such costs are not reflective of our on-going operations. Such general corporate overhead costs include labor and non-labor costs related to our corporate support functions (e.g., administration, human resources, finance, accounting, tax, information technology, corporate development and legal, among others) that historically provided support to Xperi Inc. prior to the Separation. In addition, discontinued operations excludes the historical intercompany balances and transactions between the Company and Xperi Inc. that were eliminated in consolidation. In connection with the Separation, we incurred separation costs of $43.3 million from January 1, 2020 to March 31, 2023. Separation costs primarily consist of third-party advisory, consulting, legal and professional service, IT and employee bonus costs directly related to the Separation, as well as other items that are incremental and one-time in nature. Out of these costs, $28.6 million were incurred prior to the Separation and are included in net loss from discontinued operations, net of tax. The remaining separation costs of $14.7 million were incurred after the Separation and are reflected in continuing operations within operating expenses in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations. During the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, we incurred $1.0 million and $2.8 million separation costs, respectively. 31 Reportable Segments Upon completion of the Separation, in the fourth quarter of 2022, we changed our organizational structure to operate and report in one segment: IP Licensing. We believe that this structure reflects our current operational and financial management following the completion of the Separation and provides the best structure for us to focus on growth opportunities. Our Chief Executive Officer has been determined to be the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) in consideration with the authoritative guidance on segment reporting. We primarily license our innovations to leading companies in the broader entertainment and semiconductor industries, and those companies developing new technologies that will help drive these industries forward. Licensing arrangements include access to one or more of our foundational patent portfolios and may also include access to some portions of our industry-leading technologies and know-how. Financial Highlights For the three months ended March 31, 2023: Revenue was $117.3 million, a decrease of 15% from $138.5 million in the same period in 2022 Diluted earnings per share (EPS) was $0.26, an increase of 8% from $0.24 in the same period in 2022 Net income was $29.0 million, an increase of 16% from $24.9 million in the same period in 2022 Cash flows from operations were $63.4 million, an increase of 37% from $46.3 million in the same period in 2022 We made $83.6 million in principal payments towards our term loan, bringing the outstanding balance to $665.6 million as of March 31, 2023. Results of Operations Revenue We derive the majority of our revenue from the licensing of our intellectual property (IP) rights to customers. For our revenue recognition policy, including descriptions of revenue-generating activities, refer to Note 3 Revenue of the Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. The following table presents our operating results for the periods indicated as a percentage of revenue: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Revenue 100 % 100 % Operating expenses: Research and development 11 7 Selling, general and administrative 20 24 Amortization expense 20 18 Litigation expense 2 1 Total operating expenses 53 50 Operating income from continuing operations 47 50 Interest expense (14 ) (6 ) Other income and expense, net 2 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 35 44 Provision for income taxes 10 4 Net income from continuing operations 25 % 40 % 32 Revenue (in thousands, except for percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change Revenue $ 117,307 $ 138,532 $ (21,225 ) (15 )% The decrease in revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2023, as compared to the same period in 2022, was primarily attributable to the execution of a new, multi-year license agreement with Micron Technology in the first quarter of 2022 for which a meaningful portion of the total revenue was recognized in such quarter, partially offset by the execution of two long-term license agreements with Kioxia and Western Digital for which a portion of revenue was recognized up-front during the quarter ended March 31, 2023. Research and Development (in thousands, except for percentages): Research and development expense (R&D expense) consists primarily of employee-related costs, stock-based compensation expense, engineering consulting expenses associated with new IP development, as well as costs related to patent applications and examinations, reverse engineering, materials, supplies and an allocation of facilities costs. All R&D expense is expensed as incurred. We believe that a significant level of R&D expense will be required for us to remain competitive in the future. Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change Research and development $ 13,011 $ 9,650 $ 3,361 35 % The increase in R&D expense during the three months ended March 31, 2023, as compared to the same period in 2022, was primarily due to an increase in patent prosecution costs associated with an increase in patent filings, professional services costs and personnel costs as a result of increased headcount. Selling, General and Administrative (in thousands, except for percentages): Selling, general and administrative (SGA) expenses consist primarily of compensation and related costs for sales and marketing personnel engaged in sales and licensee support, marketing programs, public relations, promotional materials, travel, trade show expenses, compensation and related costs for general management, information technology, finance personnel, corporate legal fees and expenses, facilities costs, stock-based compensation expense and professional services. Our SGA expenses, other than facilities-related expenses, are not allocated to other expense line items. Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change Selling, general and administrative $ 22,862 $ 33,824 $ (10,962 ) (32 )% The decrease in SGA expense during the three months ended March 31, 2023, as compared to the same period in 2022, was primarily due to a decrease in certain general corporate overhead costs incurred prior to the Separation and that did not meet the requirements to be presented in discontinued operations. Such costs are not reflective of our on-going operations and include labor and non-labor costs related to our corporate support functions (e.g., administration, human resources, finance, accounting, tax, information technology, corporate development, legal, among others) that historically provided support to the former product business. The decrease was partially offset by an increase in advertising expense, professional services costs and personnel costs as a result of increased headcount. 33 Amortization Expense (in thousands, except for percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change Amortization expense $ 23,689 $ 24,526 $ (837 ) (3 )% Amortization expense was relatively consistent for the three months ended March 31, 2023, as compared to the same period in 2022. Litigation Expense (in thousands, except for percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change Litigation expense $ 2,622 $ 1,078 $ 1,544 143 % The increase in litigation expense during the three months ended March 31, 2023, as compared to the same period in 2022, was primarily due to increased legal fees as a result of increased case activity. We expect that litigation expense will continue to be a significant portion of our operating expenses, as it is used to enforce and protect our IP and contract rights. Litigation expense may fluctuate between periods because of planned or ongoing litigation, as described in Part II, Item 1 Legal Proceedings. Interest Expense (in thousands, except for percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change Interest expense $ 15,938 $ 8,429 $ 7,509 89 % The increase in interest expense during the three months ended March 31, 2023, as compared to the same period in 2022, was primarily due to increased interest rates on our variable interest rate debt due to the rising interest rate environment, partially offset by a lower debt balance and amortization of debt discount and issuance costs. We anticipate interest expense will increase in 2023, when compared to 2022, as a result of the effect of rising interest rates on our existing variable-rate debt, partially offset by the lower debt balance and amortization of debt discount and issuance costs. Other Income and Expense, Net (in thousands, except for percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change Other income and expense, net $ 1,620 $ 337 $ 1,283 381 % The increase in other income and expense, net during the three months ended March 31, 2023, as compared to the same period in 2022, was primarily due to an increase in interest income from significant financing components from revenue contracts, partially offset by a decrease in realized loss on marketable investments. Provision for Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes is based on our worldwide estimated annualized effective tax rate. For jurisdictions in which a loss is forecast but no benefit can be realized for those losses, the tax is estimated separately. In certain circumstances we also record the income tax effects of discrete transactions in the quarter in which the transaction occurred. Foreign withholding 34 taxes, U.S. federal and state income taxes, and unrealized foreign exchange loss from the prior South Korea refund claims are the primary drivers of income tax expense and the primary reasons for cash payments of income taxes. For the three months ended March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022, our effective tax rate varies significantly from the 21% U.S. federal tax rate due to foreign withholding taxes, state income taxes and unrealized foreign exchange loss from prior South Korea refund claims. Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change Provision for income taxes $ 11,784 $ 5,517 $ 6,267 114 % For the three months ended March 31, 2023, we recorded an income tax expense of $11.8 million on pretax income of $40.8 million, which resulted in an effective tax rate of 28.9%. The income tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was primarily related to foreign withholding taxes, U.S. federal and state income taxes, and unrealized foreign exchange loss from the prior year South Korea refund claims, offset by U.S foreign tax credits. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, we recorded an income tax expense of $5.5 million on pretax income of $61.4 million, which resulted in an effective tax rate of 9.0%. The income tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was primarily related to foreign withholding taxes, state income taxes, and unrealized foreign exchange loss from the prior year South Korea refund claims. The year-over-year increase in income tax expense for the quarter ended March 31, 2023 is largely attributable to the 2022 valuation allowance for certain jurisdictions. The need for a valuation allowance requires an assessment of both positive and negative evidence when determining whether it is more-likely-than-not that deferred tax assets are recoverable. Such assessment is required on a jurisdiction-by-jurisdiction basis. In making such an assessment, significant weight is given to evidence that can be objectively verified. After considering both positive and negative evidence to assess the recoverability of our net deferred tax assets, we determined that the positive evidence outweighed the negative evidence primarily due to cumulative income from our IP Licensing business on a continuing operations basis and the expectation of sustained profitability in future periods. Accordingly, we concluded that it was more-likely-than-not that we would realize our federal and certain state deferred tax assets. As a result, during the fourth quarter of 2022, we released the valuation allowance on the federal deferred tax assets and certain state deferred tax assets. We will maintain a full valuation allowance on our foreign deferred tax asset as the expectation of future taxable income is uncertain. Net loss from discontinued operations, net of tax Our results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2022 include three months of Xperi Inc.s operations, which are presented as net loss from discontinued operations, net of tax in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations. Xperi Inc.s results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2022 were as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 Revenue $ 118,888 Operating expenses 135,373 Operating loss (16,485 ) Other income and expense, net 631 Loss before taxes (15,854 ) Provision for income taxes 16,016 Net loss from discontinued operations, net of tax (31,870 ) Less: net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (968 ) Net loss attributable to discontinued operations $ (30,902 ) 35 Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table presents selected financial information related to our liquidity and significant sources and uses of cash and cash equivalents for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022. As of (in thousands, except for percentages) March 31, 2023 December 31, 2022 Cash and cash equivalents $ 82,429 $ 114,555 Percentage of total assets 7 % 9 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Net cash from operating activities $ 63,352 $ 46,273 Net cash from investing activities $ (390 ) $ 3,064 Net cash from financing activities $ (95,088 ) $ (35,671 ) Our primary sources of liquidity and capital resources are our operating cash flows. Cash and cash equivalents were $82.4 million at March 31, 2023, a decrease of $32.1 million from $114.6 million at December 31, 2022. This decrease resulted primarily from $83.6 million in repayment of our indebtedness, $5.3 million in dividends paid, and $0.4 million of capital expenditures, partially offset by $63.4 million of cash generated from operations and $0.4 million in proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our employee stock grant programs and employee stock purchase plans. The primary objectives of our investment activities are to preserve principal and to maintain liquidity, while at the same time capturing a market rate of return. To achieve these objectives, we maintain a diversified portfolio of securities including money market funds and debt securities such as corporate bonds and notes, municipal bonds and notes, commercial paper, treasury and agency notes and bills and certificates of deposit. Our marketable debt securities are classified as available-for-sale (AFS) with credit losses recognized as a credit loss expense and non-credit related unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss. The gross realized gains and losses on sales of marketable debt securities were immaterial during the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022. Unrealized losses on AFS debt securities were immaterial as of March 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022. For information about our material cash requirements, see Liquidity and Capital Resources in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. Other than the principal payment of $83.6 million made by us under the Refinanced Term B Loans during the three months ended March 31, 2023, our cash requirements have not changed materially since December 31, 2022. We expect to continue to make additional payments on our existing debt from cash generated from operations. In addition to our cash requirements, we have returned cash to stockholders through both quarterly dividend payments and repurchases of our common stock under our stock repurchase plan. Quarterly Dividends In March 2023, we paid quarterly dividends of $0.05 per share of common stock. In May 2023, our board of directors (the Board) authorized payment of a quarterly dividend of $0.05 per share, to be paid in June 2023. We anticipate that all quarterly dividends will be paid out of cash and cash equivalents. Stock Repurchase Plan On June 12, 2020, our Board terminated a prior stock repurchase program and approved a new stock repurchase plan (the Plan), which provides for the repurchase of up to $150.0 million of our common stock dependent on market conditions, share price and other factors. No expiration has been specified for this Plan. On April 22, 2021, our Board authorized an additional $100.0 million of purchases under the Plan. The stock repurchases may be made from time to time, through solicited or unsolicited transactions in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions, or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan. Since the inception of the Plan, and through March 31, 2023, we have repurchased an aggregate of approximately 10.0 million shares of common stock at a total cost of $172.2 million at an average price of $17.24. As of March 31, 2023, the total remaining amount available for repurchase under the Plan was $77.8 million. 36 We may continue to execute authorized repurchases from time to time under the Plan. The amount and timing of any repurchases under the Plan depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the trading price, volume and availability of our common shares. There is no guarantee that such repurchases under the Plan will enhance the value of our common stock. While we expect to continue to generate cash flows from operating activities in 2023, the COVID-19 impact and macroeconomic conditions continue to present uncertainties as to the level of such cash flows as compared to prior years. We have taken actions to manage cash flows by reducing discretionary spending and other variable costs, and closely monitoring receivables and payables. We believe that based on current levels of operations and anticipated growth, our cash from operations, together with cash and cash equivalents currently available, will be sufficient to satisfy our currently anticipated cash requirements through at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. Poor financial results, unanticipated expenses, unanticipated acquisitions of technologies or businesses, or unanticipated strategic investments could give rise to additional financing requirements sooner than we expect. There can be no assurance that equity or debt financing will be available when needed or, if available, that such financing will be on terms satisfactory to us. The sale of additional equity securities could result in dilution to our stockholders. The incurrence of indebtedness could result in increased debt service obligations and may include covenants that would restrict our operations. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Our cash flows are presented on a consolidated basis and therefore, also include $135.0 million of cash and cash equivalents included as current assets of discontinued operations in the condensed consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2022. Cash flows provided by operations were $63.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, primarily due to our net income of $29.0 million being adjusted for non-cash items of amortization of intangible assets of $23.7 million, deferred income taxes of $2.4 million, amortization of debt issuance costs of $1.2 million and stock-based compensation expense of $3.6 million. These increases were partially offset by $2.5 million in changes in operating assets and liabilities including payment during the quarter of employee bonuses earned in 2022. Cash flows provided by operations were $46.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, primarily due to our net income of $24.0 million being further adjusted for non-cash items of depreciation of $5.9 million, amortization of intangible assets of $39.3 million and stock-based compensation expense of $16.8 million. These increases were partially offset by $40.8 million in changes in operating assets and liabilities including payment during the quarter of employee bonuses earned in 2021. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $0.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, primarily related to capital expenditures. Net cash provided by investing activities was $3.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, primarily related to maturities and sales of securities of $12.0 million, partially offset by purchases of short-term investments of $4.5 million and capital expenditures of $4.3 million. Capital Expenditures Our capital expenditures for property and equipment consist primarily of purchases of computer hardware and software, information systems, and production and test equipment. During the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, we spent $0.4 million and $4.3 million on capital expenditures, respectively, and we expect capital expenditures in the remainder of 2023 to be approximately $4.6 million. These expenditures are expected to be financed with cash from operations, existing cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. There can be no assurance that current expectations will be realized, and plans are subject to change upon further review of our capital expenditure needs. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $95.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 due to $83.6 million in repayment of indebtedness, $5.3 million in dividends paid, $6.6 million in repurchases of common stock, partially offset by $0.4 million in proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our employee stock grant programs and employee stock purchase plans. 37 Net cash used in financing activities was $35.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 due to $10.1 million in repayment of indebtedness, $5.2 million in dividends paid, and $28.3 million in repurchases of common stock, partially offset by $8.0 million in proceeds due to the issuance of common stock under our employee stock grant programs and employee stock purchase plans. Long-term Debt On June 8, 2021, we amended (the Amendment) that certain Credit Agreement dated June 1, 2020 by and among us, the lenders party thereto and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent and collateral agent (the 2020 Credit Agreement). The 2020 Credit Agreement initially provided for a five-year senior secured term B loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $1,050 million (the 2020 Term B Loan Facility). In connection with the Amendment, we made a voluntary prepayment of $50.6 million of the term loan outstanding under the 2020 Credit Agreement using cash on hand. The Amendment provided for, among other things, (i) a new tranche of term loans (the Refinanced Term B Loans) in an aggregate principal amount of $810.0 million, (ii) a reduction of the interest rate margin applicable to such loans to (x) in the case of base rate loans, 2.50% per annum and (y) in the case of Eurodollar loans, LIBOR plus a margin of 3.50% per annum, (iii) a prepayment premium of 1.00% in connection with any repricing transaction with respect to the Refinanced Term B Loans within six months of the closing date of the Amendment, (iv) an extension of the maturity to June 8, 2028, and (v) certain additional amendments, including amendments to provide us with additional flexibility under the covenant governing restricted payments. We commenced repaying quarterly installments under the Refinanced Term B Loans in the third quarter of 2021. At March 31, 2023, $665.6 million was outstanding under the Refinanced Term B Loans with an interest rate, including amortization of debt discount and issuance costs of $18.7 million. Interest is payable monthly. Under the existing loan agreements, we have future minimum principal payments for our debt of $30.4 million for the remainder of 2023 and $40.5 million in each year from 2024 through 2026, with the remaining principal balance of $473.3 million due in 2028. After the Separation, we own the debt under the Refinanced B Term Loans. Additionally, we paid $73.5 million during the three months ended March 31, 2023, based on certain leverage ratios and our excess cash flow generated during the year ended December 31, 2022. The payments were made earlier than required under the 2020 Credit Agreement. We are obligated to continue to pay a portion of excess cash flows on an annual basis. The Refinanced Term B Loans contain customary covenants, and as of March 31, 2023, we were in full compliance with such covenants. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates During the three months ended March 31, 2023, there were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates. See Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail. For a discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates, see Part II, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements including the respective expected dates of adoption. 38