Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis is intended to promote understanding of the results of operations and financial condition and should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. This discussion may contain forward-looking statements that reflect the plans, estimates and beliefs of Xperi. The words expects, anticipates, plans, believes, seeks, estimates, could, would, may, will, intends, potentially, projects, targets, or other words of similar meaning and similar expressions, among others, generally identify forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date the statements were made. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of a variety of factors, including those set forth under Item 1A, Risk Factors and elsewhere in this report. We disclaim and do not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, except as required by applicable law. This section of Form 10-K generally discusses 2023 and 2022 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2023 and 2022. Discussions of 2021 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2022 and 2021 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, filed with the SEC on March 6, 2023, which is available free of charge on the SECs website at www.sec.gov and our Investor Relations website at investor.xperi.com. Business Overview We are a leading consumer and entertainment technology company. We believe we create extraordinary experiences at home and on the go for millions of consumers around the world, enabling audiences to connect with content in a way that is more intelligent, immersive, and personal. Powering smart devices, connected cars, entertainment experiences and more, we bring together ecosystems designed to reach highly engaged consumers, allowing us and our ecosystem partners to uncover significant new business opportunities, now and in the future. Our technologies are integrated into consumer devices and a variety of media platforms worldwide, driving increased value for our partners, customers, and consumers. We operate in one reportable business segment and group our business into four categories: Pay-TV, Consumer Electronics, Connected Car and Media Platform. Headquartered in Silicon Valley with operations around the world, we have approximately 2,100 employees and more than 35 years of operating experience. Divestiture In December 2023, we entered into a definitive agreement with Tobii AB, an eye tracking and attention computing company, pursuant to which we agreed to sell our AutoSense in-cabin safety business and related imaging solutions (the Divestiture). The Divestiture, which was completed in January 2024, is expected to further streamline our business and focus our investments on entertainment markets. The estimated impact of the Divestiture on 2024 revenue is approximately $30.0 million. Spin-Off Transaction In June 2020, Xperi Holding Corporation (Xperi Holding, Adeia, or the Former Parent) announced plans to separate into two independent publicly traded companies (the Separation), one comprising its intellectual property (IP) licensing business and one comprising its product business (Xperi Product). On October 1, 2022 (the Separation Date), the Former Parent completed the Separation (the Spin-Off) through a pro-rata distribution (the Distribution) of all of the outstanding common stock of its product-related business (Xperi, we, our, or the Company) to the stockholders of record of Xperi Holding Corporation as of the close of business on September 21, 2022, the record date (the Record Date) for the Distribution. Each Xperi Holding stockholder of record received four shares of Xperi common stock, $0.001 par value, for every ten shares of Xperi Holding common stock, $0.001 par value, held by such stockholder as of the close of business on the Record Date. As a result of the Distribution, Xperi became an independent, publicly traded company and its common stock is listed under the symbol XPER on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). Basis of Presentation Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States (U.S.) and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). 51 During the three months ended September 30, 2022, all of the assets and liabilities of the Xperi Product business had been transferred to a legal entity (the Transfer) under the common control of Xperi Inc. (Xperi). Subsequent to this Transfer and through December 31, 2022, our financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared on a consolidated basis and include the financial statements of Xperi and its subsidiaries in which Xperi has a controlling financial interest. All intercompany balances and transactions are eliminated in consolidation. Prior to the Transfer, the financial statements and accompanying notes of the Xperi Product business were prepared on a combined basis and were derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of the Former Parent as we were not historically held by a single legal entity. For a detailed discussion of the basis of presentation, refer to Note 2Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Key Metrics In evaluating our financial condition and operating performance, we focus on revenue and cash flow from operations. For the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2022: Revenue increased by $19.1 million, representing a 4% increase for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to the prior year. The increase was primarily attributable to an increase of $10.7 million in Connected Car revenue as the result of growth from the DTS AutoSense and DTS AutoStage solutions and HD Radio, an increase of $9.2 million in Media Platform revenue driven principally by contribution from Vewd, which was acquired in July 2022, as well as an increase of $4.0 million in Consumer Electronics revenue due largely to growth in royalty and minimum guarantee contracts revenue in Home and Audio. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $4.8 million in Pay-TV revenue, driven by declines in core guide products and consumer hardware and subscription revenue which were partially offset by increases in IPTV solutions. Net cash from operating activities increased by $28.5 million benefiting primarily from higher cash collections, strong working capital management and a decrease in Separation-related transaction costs and severance and retention payments in 2023. Results of Operations The following table presents our historical operating results for the periods indicated as a percentage of revenue: Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 Revenue 100 % 100 % 100 % Operating expenses: Cost of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization of intangible assets 23 24 26 Research and development 43 43 40 Selling, general and administrative 45 43 41 Depreciation expense 3 4 4 Amortization expense 11 12 22 Goodwill impairment 121 Impairment of long-lived assets 2 Total operating expenses 125 249 133 Operating loss (25 ) (149 ) (33 ) Other (expense) income, net Loss before taxes (25 ) (149 ) (33 ) Provision for income taxes 2 3 4 Net loss (27 )% (152 )% (37 )% 52 Comparison of Fiscal Years Ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 Revenue We derive the majority of our revenue from licensing our technology and solutions to customers. For our revenue recognition policy including descriptions of revenue-generating activities, refer to Note 3Revenue of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table sets forth our revenue by year: Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 521,334 $ 502,260 $ 19,074 4 % The $19.1 million or 4% increase in revenue for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to the prior year, was primarily attributable to an increase of $10.7 million in Connected Car revenue as the result of growth from the DTS AutoSense and DTS AutoStage solutions and HD Radio, an increase of $9.2 million in Media Platform revenue driven principally by contribution from Vewd, which was acquired in July 2022, as well as an increase of $4.0 million in Consumer Electronics revenue due largely to growth in royalty and minimum guarantee contracts revenue in Home and Audio. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $4.8 million in Pay-TV revenue, driven by declines in core guide products and consumer hardware and subscription revenue which were partially offset by increases in IPTV solutions. Operating Expenses Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization of intangible assets $ 118,628 $ 122,946 $ (4,318 ) (4 )% Research and development 222,833 216,355 6,478 3 % Selling, general and administrative 233,403 217,402 16,001 7 % Depreciation expense 16,645 20,501 (3,856 ) (19 )% Amortization expense 57,752 62,209 (4,457 ) (7 )% Goodwill impairment 604,555 (604,555 ) (100 )% Impairment of long-lived assets 1,710 7,724 (6,014 ) (78 )% Total operating expenses $ 650,971 $ 1,251,692 $ (600,721 ) (48 )% Cost of Revenue, Excluding Depreciation and Amortization of Intangible Assets Cost of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization of intangible assets, consists primarily of employee-related costs, royalties paid to third parties, hardware product-related costs, maintenance costs and an allocation of facilities costs, as well as service center and other expenses related to providing our offerings and non-recurring engineering (NRE) services. Cost of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization of intangible assets, for the year ended December 31, 2023 was $118.6 million, as compared to $122.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, a decrease of $4.3 million, or 4%. This decrease was primarily attributable to lower hardware product-related costs and lower revenue share accrued and paid, partially offset by higher costs incurred in connection with advertising revenue and NRE services in 2023. Research and Development Research, development and other related costs (R&D expense) are comprised primarily of employee-related costs, stock-based compensation expense, engineering consulting expenses associated with new product and technology development, product commercialization, quality assurance and testing costs, as well as costs related to patent applications and examinations, materials, supplies, and an allocation of facilities costs. All research, development and other related costs are expensed as incurred. 53 R&D expense for the year ended December 31, 2023 was $222.8 million as compared to $216.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, an increase of $6.4 million, or 3%. The increase was primarily due to employees hired in connection with the Vewd Acquisition in July 2022, an increase in R&D spend on AutoSense programs, and higher stock-based compensation expense, partially offset by a decrease in severance and retention expense in 2023. Selling, General and Administrative Selling expenses consist primarily of compensation and related costs (including stock-based compensation expense) for sales and marketing personnel engaged in sales and licensee support, marketing programs, public relations, promotional materials, travel, and trade show expenses. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and related costs (including stock-based compensation expense) for management, information technology, finance and legal personnel, legal fees and expenses, facilities costs, and professional services. Our general and administrative expenses, other than facilities-related expenses and fringe benefits, are not allocated to other expense line items. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2023 were $233.4 million as compared to $217.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, an increase of $16.0 million, or 7%. The increase was primarily due to increases in stock-based compensation expense and cloud computing expense. Depreciation Expense Depreciation expense was $16.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to $20.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, a decrease of $3.9 million, or 19%. The decrease was primarily due to certain fixed assets being fully depreciated during the fourth quarter of 2022 as well as during 2023. Amortization Expense Amortization expense for the year ended December 31, 2023 was $57.8 million, as compared to $62.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, a decrease of $4.4 million, or 7%. The decrease was primarily due to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized in 2023, which was partially offset by new amortization expense as a result of the Vewd Acquisition in July 2022. As a result of previous mergers and acquisitions, we anticipate that amortization expenses will continue to be a significant expense over the next several years. See Note 8Goodwill impairment and Intangible Assets, Net of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail. Stock-based Compensation Expense The following table sets forth our stock-based compensation (SBC) expense for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 Cost of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization of intangible assets $ 3,466 $ 2,906 Research and development 25,276 21,561 Selling, general and administrative 40,789 20,836 Total stock-based compensation $ 69,531 $ 45,303 Stock-based compensation include restricted stock units, employee stock options and purchases made under our employee stock purchase plan (ESPP). The increase in SBC expense for the year ended December 31, 2023, when compared to the prior year, was primarily a result of granting restricted stock units to an increased number of employees resulting from the Vewd Acquisition and certain insourcing activity, and due to incremental compensation cost recognized from the conversion of employee equity awards in connection with the Spin-Off. In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2022, we recognized $6.9 million of SBC expense in operating results as part of the corporate and shared functional employees expenses allocation. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets As a result of optimizing our global real estate footprint and decisions to vacate and sublease an office building following the Spin-Off, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of $7.7 million to reduce the carrying amount of certain operating lease 54 right-of-use (ROU) assets and property and equipment, including leasehold improvements, during the year ended December 31, 2022. We determined that we may not be able to fully recover the carrying amount of the leased building due to a change in the manner in which the building is being used, an expected decrease in the market price of the leased asset, along with expected delays in subleasing the space based on the current real estate leasing market. As a result of continuing to optimize our global real estate footprint and decisions to vacate and sublease certain offices following the Spin-Off, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of $1.7 million to reduce the carrying amount of certain ROU assets and property and equipment, including leasehold improvements, during the year ended December 31, 2023. We determined that we may not be able to fully recover the carrying amount of the leased offices due to how the offices are being used, a significant decrease in the expected market price of the leased asset, and expected delays in subleasing the space based on the current real estate leasing market. Goodwill Impairment During the three months ended September 30, 2022, indicators of potential impairment for the Product reporting unit of our Former Parent were identified such that management concluded it was more-likely-than-not that goodwill was impaired and a quantitative interim goodwill impairment assessment should be performed as of September 30, 2022. Indicators of potential impairment included a sustained decline in our Former Parents stock price during the second half of the third quarter of 2022 reflective of rising interest rates and continued decline in macroeconomic conditions. We proceeded to perform a fair value analysis of the Product reporting unit using the market capitalization approach. Under this approach, we estimated the fair value of the Product reporting unit as of September 30, 2022 using quoted market prices of our common stock over its first ten trading days following the Separation, and a control premium representing the estimated synergies a market participant would achieve upon obtaining control of Xperi. As a result of the fair value analysis, we recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $354.0 million during the three months ended September 30, 2022. During the three months ended December 31, 2022, sufficient indicators of potential impairment were identified such that management concluded it was more-likely-than-not that goodwill was impaired and a quantitative interim goodwill impairment test should be performed as of December 31, 2022. Indicators of potential impairment included a significant, sustained decline in the trading price of our common stock during the fourth quarter of 2022. We proceeded to perform a fair value analysis of the Product reporting unit (our sole reporting unit) using the market capitalization approach. Under this approach, we estimated the fair value as of December 31, 2022 using quoted market prices of our common stock as of December 30, 2022, the last trading date of 2022, and a control premium representing the estimated synergies a market participant would achieve upon obtaining control of Xperi. As a result of the fair value analysis, a goodwill impairment charge of $250.6 million was recognized during the three months ended December 31, 2022. As a result of this impairment charge, our goodwill balance was reduced to $0 as of December 31, 2022. We did not recognize a goodwill impairment charge for the year ended December 31, 2023. Other (Expense) Income, Net Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Other (expense) income, net $ (9 ) $ 1,815 $ (1,824 ) (100 )% Other (expense) income, net, for the year ended December 31, 2023 was insignificant, as compared to the $1.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. Other (expense) income, net, was lower in 2023 principally due to higher foreign exchange transaction losses recognized as well as the interest expense on debt incurred in connection with the Vewd Acquisition discussed below in Liquidity and Capital Resources, partially offset by an increase in interest income from significant financing components from revenue contracts executed and gains recognized on derivatives not designated as hedge instruments in 2023. Provision for Income Taxes Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Provision for income taxes $ 10,042 $ 13,589 $ (3,547 ) (26 )% 55 For the year ended December 31, 2023, we recorded an income tax expense of $10.0 million on a pretax loss of $129.6 million, which resulted in an effective tax rate of (7.7)%. The income tax expense of $10.0 million was primarily related to foreign withholding taxes of $10.5 million, U.S. federal income taxes of $1.4 million, and foreign income tax expense of $8.3 million, partially offset by a tax benefit from an internal sale of intangible assets of $10.3 million. For the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded an income tax expense of $13.6 million on a pretax loss of $747.6 million, which resulted in an effective tax rate of (1.8)%. The income tax expense of $13.6 million was primarily related to foreign withholding taxes of $10.2 million, state income taxes of $1.6 million, and foreign income tax expense of $7.2 million, partially offset by a tax benefit due to an impairment of goodwill of $5.0 million. Our income tax expense for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 was calculated on a separate return basis as if we would file our tax return for the full twelve months in each year. However, activities for periods prior to the Separation Date are generally reported on U.S. income tax returns filed by our Former Parent. Because of this, income tax expense presented in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for periods prior to the Separation was not necessarily representative of the taxes that arose when we filed our income tax returns for the year ended December 31, 2022. In the future, under the Tax Matters Agreement, our Former Parent may utilize certain of our tax attributes generated during pre-Separation periods to reduce its tax liability for tax years ended December 31, 2022 and earlier. If our Former Parent should use such attributes, this would require an adjustment to our tax accounts. At December 31, 2023, our 2019 through 2023 tax years are generally open and subject to potential examination in one or more jurisdictions. In addition, in the United States, any net operating losses or credits that were generated in prior years but not yet fully utilized in a year that is closed under the statute of limitations may also be subject to examination. The need for a valuation allowance requires an assessment of both positive and negative evidence when determining whether it is more-likely-than-not that deferred tax assets are recoverable. Such assessment is required on a jurisdiction-by-jurisdiction basis. In making such assessment, significant weight is given to evidence that can be objectively verified. After considering both positive and negative evidence to assess the recoverability of our net deferred tax assets, we determined that it was unlikely that we would realize a portion of our federal, certain state and certain foreign deferred tax assets. We intend to continue maintaining a valuation allowance on our federal deferred tax assets until there is sufficient evidence to support the reversal of all or some portion of these allowances. Release of the valuation allowance would result in the recognition of certain federal deferred tax assets and a decrease to income tax expense for the period the release is recorded. The exact timing and amount of the valuation allowance release depends on the level of profitability that we are able to achieve. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table presents selected financial information related to our liquidity and significant sources and uses of cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2023 and 2022 and for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022: December 31, 2023 2022 (dollars in thousands) Cash and cash equivalents $ 142,085 (1) $ 160,127 Current ratio 1.9 2.2 (1) Excludes $12.3 million of cash and cash equivalents classified as held for sale at December 31, 2023. Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 62 $ (28,445 ) Net cash used in investing activities $ (12,933 ) $ (64,846 ) Net cash provided by financing activities $ 7,052 $ 135,751 Our primary sources of liquidity and capital resources are our cash on hand including cash provided by the Former Parent prior to the Separation. Cash and cash equivalents were $154.4 million, including $12.3 million classified as held-for-sale in connection with the Divestiture, at December 31, 2023, a decrease of $5.7 million from $160.1 million at December 31, 2022. This decrease resulted primarily from $12.7 million of capital expenditures, and $4.9 million in payment of withholding taxes on net share settlement of equity awards, partially offset by $11.9 million in proceeds received from the issuance of common stock under the ESPP. 56 Our material cash requirements include the following contractual and other obligations. Leases We have lease arrangements for office and research facilities, data centers and office equipment. As of December 31, 2023, fixed lease payment obligations amounted to $49.9 million, with $16.8 million payable within 12 months. See Note 10Leases of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on lease obligations and maturities. Long-Term Debt As of December 31, 2023, we had outstanding long-term debt in an aggregate principal amount of $50.0 million, which is due on July 1, 2025. We may, at any time and on any one or more occasions, prepay all or any portion of the outstanding principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, without premium or penalty. Future interest payments associated with the debt total $4.5 million, with $3.0 million payable within 12 months. Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations primarily consist of noncancelable obligations related to advertising, engineering services and internet and telecommunications services. As of December 31, 2023, we had purchase obligations of $143.2 million, with $44.2 million payable within 12 months. These purchase obligations represent commitments under enforceable and legally binding agreements, and do not represent the entire anticipated purchases in the future. See Note 11Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our purchase obligations. Income Tax Payable As of December 31, 2023, we had accrued $9.6 million of unrecognized tax benefits in long-term income taxes payable related to uncertain tax positions, which included $0.4 million of accrued interest and penalties. At this time, we are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of the long-term payments or the amount by which the liability will increase or decrease over time. Cash Flows Cash Flows From Operating Activities Net cash provided by operations was $0.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, primarily due to our net loss of $139.7 million and a decrease in deferred income taxes of $8.6 million, offset by non-cash items such as depreciation expense of $16.6 million, amortization of intangible assets of $57.8 million, stock-based compensation expense of $69.5 million, impairment of long-lived assets of $1.7 million, and $2.0 million of changes in operating assets and liabilities. Net cash used by operations was $28.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, primarily due to our net loss of $761.2 million and $6.0 million in changes in operating assets and liabilities being adjusted for non-cash items of depreciation of $20.5 million, amortization of intangible assets of $62.2 million, stock-based compensation of $45.3 million, goodwill impairment of $604.6 million and impairment of long-lived assets of $7.7 million. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $12.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, which was primarily related to capital expenditures. Net cash used in investing activities was $64.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, primarily related to net cash paid of $50.5 million for the Vewd Acquisition, and capital expenditures of $14.2 million. Capital Expenditures Our capital expenditures for property, plant, and equipment consist primarily of purchases of computer hardware and software (including capitalized internal use software), information systems, production and test equipment. We expect capital expenditures in 2024 to be approximately $20.0 million. These expenditures are expected to be financed with existing cash and 57 cash equivalents. There can be no assurance that current expectations will be realized and plans are subject to change upon further review of our capital expenditure needs. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $7.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, primarily due to $11.9 million in proceeds from the issuance of common stock under the ESPP, offset by $4.9 million in payment of withholding taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards. Net cash provided by financing activities was $135.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 consisting primarily of $52.8 million of net transfers from the Former Parent and $83.2 million of net proceeds from capital contributions by the Former Parent. Long-term Debt In connection with the Vewd acquisition on July 1, 2022, we issued a senior unsecured promissory note (the Promissory Note) to the sellers of Vewd in the principal amount of $50.0 million. Indebtedness outstanding under the Promissory Note bears an interest rate of 6.00% per annum, payable in cash on a quarterly basis. If a certain qualified spin-off transaction occurs, the interest rate will be increased to the greater of (a) 6.00% and (b) the sum of (i) the highest interest rate payable under any credit facility or bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments where we or any guarantor borrows money or guarantees obligations on a secured basis on or after the date of such spin-off transaction, plus (ii) 2.00%. It was determined that the Spin-Off completed on October 1, 2022 did not trigger any change in the interest rate of the debt. The Promissory Note matures on July 1, 2025. We may, at any time and on any one or more occasions, prepay all or any portion of the outstanding principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, under the Promissory Note without premium or penalty. In addition, the Promissory Note has mandatory prepayment provisions upon certain change of control or asset sale events. At December 31, 2023, $50.0 million was outstanding under the Promissory Note with an annual interest rate of 6.0%. Interest is payable quarterly. Under the Promissory Note agreement, we are obligated to make a balloon principal payment of $50.0 million in July 2025. Following the Separation from our Former Parent, our capital structure and sources of liquidity changed significantly. We no longer participate in cash management and funding arrangements facilitated by the Former Parent. At the time of the Spin-Off, our Former Parent capitalized us such that we carried an amount of cash and cash equivalents of over $180.0 million. Our current cash and cash equivalents balance is expected to be sufficient to support our operations, capital expenditures and income tax payments, in addition to any investments and other capital allocation needs, for at least the next 12 months from the issuance date of these financial statements. Poor financial results, unanticipated expenses, unanticipated acquisitions of technologies or businesses or unanticipated strategic investments could give rise to additional financing requirements sooner than we expect. There can be no assurance that equity or debt financing will be available when needed or, if available, that such equity financing will be on terms satisfactory to us and not dilutive to our then-current stockholders or that debt financing will not impose significant restrictions on the operation of our business. We may supplement our short-term liquidity needs with access to capital markets, if necessary, and strategic cost savings initiatives. Our access to capital markets may be constrained and our cost of borrowing may increase under certain business and market conditions, and our liquidity is subject to various risks including the risks identified in Risk Factors included in Item 1A of this Form 10-K. Critical Accounting Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements. These financial statements have been prepared in conformity with GAAP in the United States which requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. By their nature, these estimates and judgments are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. We evaluate our estimates based on our historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. These estimates relate to revenue recognition, the assessment of recoverability of goodwill and intangible assets, business combinations, recognition and measurement of deferred income tax 58 assets and liabilities, the assessment of unrecognized tax benefits, and others. Actual results could differ from those estimates, and material effects on our operating results and financial position may result. We believe the following accounting estimates are most critical to understanding our consolidated financial statements. See Note 2Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 3Revenue of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a full description of our accounting policies. Revenue recognition We derive the majority of our revenue from the licensing of our technologies to customers. Generally, revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products, services, or licensing of our technologies to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that we expect to receive in exchange for those products, services and licensing of the technologies. The primary judgments include estimating licensees quarterly royalties prior to receiving the royalty reports, estimating variable consideration, identifying the performance obligations in the contract, determining stand-alone selling price and the transaction price, and allocating consideration in an arrangement with multiple performance obligations. We generally recognize royalty revenue from per-unit or per-subscriber licenses based on units shipped or manufactured, or number of subscribers. Revenue is recognized in the period in which the customers sales, production or usage are estimated to have occurred. This may result in an adjustment to revenue when actual sales, production or usage are subsequently reported by the customer, generally in the month or quarter following sales, production or usage. Estimating customers quarterly royalties and license fees prior to receiving the customer reports requires us to make significant assumptions and judgments related to forecasted trends and growth rates used to estimate quantities shipped or manufactured by customers or the number of subscribers, which could have a material impact on the amount of revenue we report on a quarterly basis. Business combinations The valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in an acquisition under Accounting Standard Codification Topic 805, Business Combinations (ASC 805) requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions. Critical estimates in determining the fair value of certain intangible assets include, but are not limited to: future expected cash flows from customer contracts, customer lists, and acquired developed technologies and patents; competitive trends and market comparables; brand awareness and market position, as well as assumptions about the period of time the brand will continue to be used in our product portfolio; and discount rates. For additional information, refer to Note 7Acquisitions and Divestitures of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Impairment of intangible assets Identified finite-lived intangible assets consist of acquired patents, existing technology, customer relationships, trademarks and trade names, non-compete agreements resulting from acquisitions, and acquired patents under asset purchase agreements. Our identified intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, ranging from 1 to 10 years. We make judgments about the recoverability of finite-lived intangible assets whenever facts and circumstances indicate that the useful life is shorter than originally estimated or that the carrying amount of assets may not be recoverable. If such facts and circumstances exist, we assess recoverability by comparing the projected undiscounted net cash flows associated with the related asset or group of assets over their remaining lives against their respective carrying amounts. Impairments, if any, are based on the excess of the carrying amount over the fair value of those assets. If the useful life is shorter than originally estimated, we would accelerate the rate of amortization and amortize the remaining carrying value over the new shorter useful life. For identified indefinite-lived intangible assets resulting from acquisitions, we evaluate their carrying value on an annual basis, and an impairment charge would be recognized to the extent that the carrying amount of such assets exceeds their estimated fair value. Accounting for income taxes We must make certain estimates and judgments in determining income tax expense for financial statement purposes. These estimates and judgments are used in the calculation of tax credits, tax benefits and deductions, and in the calculation of tax assets and liabilities. Significant changes to these estimates may result in an increase or decrease to our tax provision in a subsequent period. 59 We must assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets. If recovery is not likely on a more-likely-than-not basis, we must increase our provision for income taxes by recording a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. Should there be a change in our ability to recover our deferred tax assets, our provision for income taxes would fluctuate in the period of the change. We account for uncertain tax positions in accordance with authoritative guidance related to income taxes. The calculation of our unrecognized tax benefits involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. As such, we are required to make many subjective assumptions and judgments regarding our income tax exposures. We record unrecognized tax benefits for anticipated tax audit issues in the U.S. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional tax liabilities are more-likely-than-not assuming the tax authorities have full knowledge of all relevant information. If we ultimately determine that the tax liabilities are unnecessary, we reverse the liabilities and recognize a tax benefit during the period in which it occurs. This may occur for a variety of reasons, such as the expiration of the statute of limitations on a particular tax return or the completion of an examination by the relevant tax authority. We record an additional charge in our provision for taxes in the period in which we determine that the recorded unrecognized tax benefits are less than the expected ultimate settlement. Our policy is to classify accrued interest and penalties related to the accrued liability for unrecognized tax benefits in the provision for income taxes. For the year ended December 31, 2023, we recognized interest and penalties of $0.3 million related to unrecognized tax benefits, whereas interest and penalties were immaterial for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021. See Note 14Income Taxes of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements including the respective expected dates of adoption. 60