Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for information concerning the continuing effect of COVID-19 on our business. Product Segment Our product business comprises a portfolio of software and services that address one of the biggest consumer trends in entertainment today the massive proliferation of content and the rapidly changing habits for how consumers are finding, watching and enjoying entertainment. We offer consumers a unique and seamless end-to-end entertainment experience: from choice to consumption - in the home, in the car and on-the-go. Additionally, through our technology solutions, we can offer our customers and partners additional ways to monetize that consumption. We group our Product business into three categories based on the products delivered and customers served: Consumer Experience, Connected Car, and Pay-TV. Strategy Our goal is to make entertainment more entertaining and smart devices smarter. We do this through developing ground-breaking innovations that enhance the products and services that billions of consumers interact with on a daily basis. Our inventions are focused on driving increased value for partners, customer, and consumers across multiple end-markets. Key elements of our strategy by end-market include: Consumer Experience: Enhancing consumers discovery and consumption of entertainment content, whether it be in the home or on the go, through our audio, imaging, and media solutions. Connected Car: Delivering unique entertainment experiences as well as ground-breaking safety solutions for automotive markets worldwide. Pay-TV: Transforming the traditional television user experience from linear / video-on-demand (VOD) to a modern content discovery platform that breaks down content silos and boundaries, creating a unified media experience that enables unprecedented end user engagement. In addition to the above end markets we are also focused on delivering a new machine learning-based hardware and software platform in form of small power-efficient AI semiconductor chip branded Ergo. The Ergo platform combines work on advanced machine learning with our unique experience in imaging, audio, and semiconductor technologies. Our focus is on delivering on a solution that enables data center quality inference to edge devices to an addressable market of billions of devices across IoT, in home, mobile and automotive applications. 5 6 Consumer Experience Our Consumer Experience business represents four major product groups based on the solutions delivered to our customers: TiVo Software and Services, Audio, Imaging and Edge-Based Machine Learning. Below are some of the key solutions we license: TiVo Software & Services TiVo Stream. Our TiVo Stream platform is a consumer streaming platform that empowers consumers to confidently navigate an increasingly fragmented and complex entertainment landscape, bringing content of all formats, including movies, TV and user generated video, into a single experience with more end user customization to control their entertainment bundles. It 7 represents a differentiated experience with universal discovery and personalized recommendations with seamless integration of linear, live and streaming programming. TiVo Stream is a platform with multiple go-to-market endpoints such as the TiVo Stream 4K device addressing the fast-growing streaming media player market, and TiVo Stream embedded as an operating platform on Smart TVs and other consumer electronic products. We sell TiVo Stream 4K both direct to consumers as well as via online and traditional retail channels. The TiVo Stream platform is licensed as a software-as-a-service to consumer electronic and TV OEMs giving us the right to monetize all or part of the end user content engagement over the life of the product. Metadata. Our metadata products are a critical component of delivering an interactive entertainment experience. We offer the industrys most comprehensive metadata library covering television, sports, movies, digital-first, music, celebrities, books, and video games. We develop our metadata through a technology platform that combines machine learning techniques and platform-mediated work with our proprietary and patented knowledge graph technology. Our focus on quality, robustness and consistent international depth has made us a recognized leader in entertainment metadata services worldwide. We offer several metadata and service offerings, including, but not limited to, schedules, listings and web content linking services. Customers typically pay us a monthly or quarterly licensing fee for the rights to use the metadata, including regular updates, and to integrate it into their own service. Our metadata can be sold stand-alone or as a complement to another TiVo product such as a TiVo Stream or search and recommendation solution. We deliver metadata using real-time APIs and as bulk data files depending on our customers requirements. Our metadata customers include leading global companies such as Microsoft Corporation (Microsoft) and Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. (Samsung). Personalized Content Discovery and Natural Language Voice. Personalized Content Discovery with conversation services provides service providers, CE device manufacturers and application/service developers a way to enable their customers to quickly find, discover and access content across linear broadcast television, VOD, DVR, and OTT sources. The ongoing investment in our Personalized Content Discovery platform enables us to provide some of the most advanced capabilities in media personalization, prediction and voice search. The advanced algorithms of our technology understand the nature and relationship of content information and the context surrounding a user's behavior to deliver an advanced personalized content discovery experience. Results can be generated through traditional text entry, voice interaction or our content recommendations. Our natural language voice solution, when combined with our advanced search and recommendations technology, enables a conversational interaction between a viewer and their content experience. These technologies can be applied to pay TV, internet TV, and video services from virtual service providers, content producers, and CE manufacturers. Customers typically pay us a per-subscriber or per-device fee. Our search and recommendation solutions are widely deployed with many leading pay TV service providers including Charter and Verizon Communications, Inc. (Verizon). Advanced Media and Advertising. Our Advanced Media and Advertising solutions enable pay TV and virtual service providers, content and new media companies, and advertisers and their agencies to better understand and monetize consumer media engagement. We are leading the industry to use advanced technologies focused on television data to create efficiencies and value multipliers in the evolving television advertising ecosystem. Our TV data platform processes the raw TV viewership events from millions of set-top boxes (STBs) which our customers can anonymously match against billing, customer and a range of other third-party data. We provide advertisers with nationwide or regionally targeted advertising on our UX Solutions. Advertisers place ads in a variety of display formats in both traditional linear television and digital advertising for internet delivered content, seamlessly incorporated into the user interface. Advertisements can trigger a variety of actions when selected via a remote control, including video advertisement playback, DVR recordings, and direct response. Utilizing our Personalized Content Discovery platform, we also target content promotions as paid search by directly including the sponsored content in user interfaces recommended content carousel. We work with service providers bundling their non-TiVo advertising inventory with our native inventory giving us a more significant national footprint. Our TV Viewership Data platform processes millions of households of TV viewership data with program airings data. Our platform enables us to partner with service providers to unlock the value of their return-path data, transforming raw return-path data into meaningful viewership information to inform and support advertising, promotion and marketing initiatives. Utilizing our TV Viewership Data, MVPDs, broadcasters, content producers, advertising agencies and advertisers can activate subscribers TV viewership alone or in combination with third-party data sources using industry- leading data safe havens to target directly, or through third party viewer segments, promotions and advertising to monetize their subscriber customer base. 8 We also offer a software-as-a-service Audience Insights solution used by service providers to analyze the habits and preferences of TV subscribers, providing critical insights that can be utilized to increase operational efficiency, improve customer engagement, support carriage and bundling decisions, help mitigate churn and maximize average revenue per user. Integrated with our Personalized Content Discovery solutions, Audience Insights processes millions of households of TV viewership data, programming data, billing and customer attributes data, as well as third-party sources providing service providers deep analysis of their subscribers second-by-second engagement and consumption of content. Audio Audio Solutions consists of premier audio technology for high definition entertainment experiences. The DTS codec is designed to enable recording, delivery and playback of immersive high definition audio and is incorporated by hundreds of customers around the world into an array of consumer electronics devices for use anywhere, at home, in the car, or on the go. We provide products and services to entertainment media ecosystem partners such as motion picture studios, radio and TV broadcasters, game developers and other content creators to facilitate the inclusion of compelling, realistic DTS-encoded audio within their content. This in turn allows consumers to experience immersive and compelling audio wherever they choose to enjoy it. Devices that incorporate DTS audio codec technology include televisions (TVs), personal computers (PCs), smartphones, tablets, automotive entertainment systems, set top boxes (STBs), video game consoles, Blu-ray Disc players, audio/video receivers (AVRs), soundbars, wireless speakers and home theater systems. We also offer DTS post-processing audio solutions designed to enhance the entertainment experience for users of consumer electronics devices, particularly those subject to the physical limitations of smaller speakers, such as TVs, PCs and mobile devices. In 2018, we launched the IMAX Enhanced program, which Xperi manages and licenses to CE customers worldwide to deliver the ultimate home cinema experience with unique IMAX cinematic content that leverages the DTS:X audio format to flawlessly deliver signature IMAX audio mixes. In addition, our DTS PlayFi technology leverages our audio and technology expertise to enable a variety of high-quality audio playback options across wireless speakers, set top boxes, TVs and mobile devices. The proliferation of connected devices that can support streaming and downloadable content has made our active participation within the digital ecosystem increasingly important, as the availability of DTS-encoded content helps drive consumer demand for electronics that support DTS technologies. Our immersive audio solutions, such as DTS-HD and DTS:X, empower content creators and are supported by all major Hollywood studios, many cinema operators in the U.S. and Asia, and leading streaming service providers in the U.S., Europe and Asia. We have licensed our audio technologies and related trademarks to substantially all of the major consumer electronics product manufacturers worldwide. These customers include Denso, Harman, Hisense, LG, Microsoft, Panasonic, Samsung, Sony, and others. Imaging Imaging Solutions: We are a pioneer in computer vision and computational imaging solutions and we provide critical imaging technologies that enable millions of consumers to take incredible pictures with their cameras and smartphones. Our FotoNation imaging products were rebranded to DTS in January 2020. These technologies underpin many of the features todays digital users enjoy every day such as advanced portrait modes, face detection and tracking, and automatic effects such as face beautification. Our imaging technologies have become must-have capabilities for certain mobile device manufacturers and have been foundational to enabling our automotive in-cabin monitoring solutions that are part of our Connected Car product group. Our imaging technologies and products have been licensed to mobile phone and digital camera manufacturers worldwide, including to LG, Nikon, Oppo, Socionext, ZTE, and others. Audio and Imaging Product-Delivery. Traditionally, our technologies are delivered as software code on integrated circuit (IC) chips. We license a defined and limited set of rights to incorporate our technology into these IC chips, and the IC manufacturers deliver these Xperienabled chips to our customers, the consumer electronics product manufacturers. We also work closely with the worlds leading IC manufacturers to enable support for our technologies on the new programmable architectures that fuel innovation and flexibility in todays consumer electronics products. Our partners specialize in key vertical markets and work closely with us to enable our latest technologies for these programmable parts. Together, we license these solutions to Xperis consumer electronics products customers. We have devoted significant time and resources to develop a broad range of solutions with key partners including Amlogic, Analog Devices, Cadence, Cirrus Logic, Mediatek, Mstar, NXP, Qualcomm, Realtek, Synaptics, Texas Instruments, and others. 9 Edge-Based Machine Learning Our Perceive subsidiary provides silicon and software solutions for edge inference, which provides two differentiating factors: low power and high performance. Perceives Ergo chip and associated software deliver breakthrough innovation delivering datacenter class accuracy and performance at ultra-low power, performing tasks such as face recognition, audio and video event detection. These solutions are expected to have initial market applications in consumer security cameras, doorbells, and other battery powered consumer devices, made by industry leaders. Connected Car We group our Connected Car business into three categories based on the products delivered to our customers: HD Radio, Automotive Connected Media and In-Cabin Monitoring Solutions. HD Radio . HD Radio is the only digital terrestrial broadcast system approved by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) for AM/FM radio in the U.S., offering additional channels, crystal-clear sound and advanced data services with no subscription fees. HD Radio enables a high quality in-vehicle radio experience with innovative features and digital capabilities such as real time traffic and weather updates. HD Radio technology enables digital AM/FM broadcast radio, creating significant benefits to all participants in the radio broadcasting ecosystem. HD Radio is supported by more than 2,300 radio stations, including 98 of the top 100 stations in the top 10 U.S. radio markets. Furthermore, we believe HD Radio provides compelling advantages to consumers over traditional radio as listeners enjoy upgraded audio quality, expanded content choices, and new digital services. Our HD Radio technology is incorporated into a number of our automotive partners products, including vehicles from Acura, Audi, BMW, Ford, GM, Honda, Hyundai, Tesla, and Toyota, among many others. Automotive Connected Media (ACM). ACM delivers DTS AutoStage, industry leading TiVo music and audio entertainment metadata, media search and discovery and our DTS premium audio solutions into a comprehensive automotive infotainment offering. DTS AutoStage is a global system that enables car makers to utilize a single platform to deliver an enhanced radio experience across different analog and digital broadcast systems deployed regionally. Utilizing an internet protocol connection installed in a vehicle, DTS AutoStage delivers an innovative analog AM/FM and digital (DAB and HD Radio) experience by pairing broadcast programming with internet protocol-delivered content. Daimler launched the first series of automobiles featuring the DTS AutoStage platform in September 2020. In-Cabin Monitoring (ICM). Built upon our legacy as a pioneer in computer vision and computational imaging solutions, DTS AutoSense, includes driver monitoring systems (DMS) and occupant monitoring systems (OMS) to enable a full suite of detection and analysis products for automakers. These technologies enable state-of-the-art attentiveness assessment and fatigue detection for the driver as well as in-cabin monitoring and customization options, based on occupant detection and analysis. Pay-TV Our Pay-TV business delivers a range of User Experience (UX) solutions under the iGuide, Passport, TiVo, G-Guide and Cubi brands servicing multi-channel video operators world-wide. UX Solutions. We are addressing the evolving user experience around TV content consumption and creating a truly unified media experience. We are integrating virtual channels of internet delivered video directly into the consumer's primary video consumption platform to provide universal search, discovery and consumption regardless of where the content originates. Our UX Solutions allow service providers to customize certain elements of the interactive programming guides (IPGs) for their customers and to upgrade the programming features and services they offer. Our UX Solutions provide content producers with a platform for merchandising their content. Our UX Solutions allow viewers to build their own entertainment bundle to truly personalize their experience with current and future program information and are compatible with service providers' subscription management, pay-per-view (PPV) and VOD services. We also offer operational support, professional services and content metadata. Our UX Solutions also have the ability to include advertising, and we typically share a portion of the advertising revenue from the service provider. We currently offer UX Solutions marketed to service providers under the TiVo, iGuide and Passport brands in the U.S., Canada and Latin America. Service providers generally pay us a monthly per subscriber fee to license our UX Solutions. We also offer UX Solutions to the CE industry under the G-GUIDE brand in Japan. TiVo Service . The TiVo Service is our most advanced platform, offering a fully-integrated cloud-based solution that powers the TiVo Service client software that operates on STBs in consumer homes, as well as applications that operate on third party software platforms, such as iOS and Android, that power tablets, smartphones and mobile streaming devices. The solution 10 supports multiple services and applications, such as linear TV programming, broadband OTT video content, digital music, photos and other media experiences. The cloud-based service manages interaction with the TiVo Service infrastructure, automatically connecting TiVo-enabled devices to provide program guide data, content recommendations, media promotion, advertising, broadband content and client software upgrades. We have enabled the TiVo Service client software to operate on STBs, such as those from CommScope Holding Company, Inc. and Technicolor SA, as well as, Android TV TM boxes and streamers from a variety of manufacturers, for deployment in MVPD networks. We also enable a full suite of cloud-based internet-protocol television ("IPTV") solutions, including internet protocol linear, VOD, start-over, catch-up and network DVR. We allow pay TV operators the flexibility to transition to IPTV while utilizing their current infrastructure to take advantage of internet video and OTT content. This solution allows the STB to operate as an ultra HD STB and a multi-room client STB. Over the past few years, the TiVo Service client software has undergone a significant refactoring. In addition to developing a new look and feel, our next generation TiVo Service platform integrates all of our most advanced technologies and solutions, including advanced cross-platform conversational voice search, personalized recommendations, predictions and insights, extensive video metadata, robust data collection and new back office capabilities, and allows our hardware partners' devices to connect with third-party consumer devices and services to enable existing and future functionality. We also offer a direct-to-consumer retail TiVo Service in North America, to consumers who purchase TiVo DVRs and companion TiVo Mini whole-home devices. For our direct-to-consumer retail TiVo Service, consumers either pay us recurring service fees, or in some cases pay a one-time upfront fee for access to the TiVo Service for the life of the purchased TiVo DVR. We outsource the manufacturing and hardware designs to a strategic partner. The TiVo Service Platform includes a modular front-end that allows the basic platform to be used by hardware manufacturers to build STBs that support digital and analog broadcast, cable, internet TV, OTT and VOD services. We continue to advance the TiVo Service client software to operate across a variety of hardware platforms. UX Business Operations and Technical Support. Our UX Business has technical support and certification operations to support our products: We provide training, technical support and integration services to pay TV service providers who license our products. We operate the internet-based services required for our service offerings including data delivery, search, recommendation, advertising, device management and media recognition. We provide broadcast delivery of television programming data and advertising to UXs on TVs and STBs in major European markets and in Japan. In North America, we deliver similar programming and advertising data via the internet. We support our customers with porting and engineering services to ensure our IPGs and DVRs operate properly. We provide customer care for UX and DVR customers to resolve data, advertising and consumer functional issues. Competition Consumer Experience The TiVo Stream competes against products with on-demand OTT streaming capabilities offered by internet CE manufacturers. For example, many CE manufacturers have television or internet-enabled streaming devices for accessing video over the internet such as Apple TV, Amazon Fire TV, Google Chromecast, and Roku. Metadata. In metadata, we compete with other providers of entertainment-related content metadata such as Gracenote (a subsidiary of Nielsen Holdings plc) and Ericsson Group's Red Bee Media, as well as a number of local metadata providers. While we do not believe that our competitors' metadata sets offer the same comprehensive breadth of focus on media exploration, discovery, and management in as many regions of the world as we do, they present competition to our metadata business for each of their areas of focus. TV Audience Data. We collect and analyze audience research data in an area where companies such as comScore, Inc. and Nielsen Holdings plc and other online data analytics companies compete for research spend from advertisers, advertising agencies and television networks. Other large companies are also focusing resources in this area including Comcast, Facebook, Inc. and Alphabet, Inc.s Google business. Many of our existing customers are investing in significant platforms to enable their businesses with these capabilities. We believe that there is a significant opportunity for us as an independent data and technology provider, with proprietary access to critical data assets associated with consumers engagement with entertainment media. Audio and Imaging . Our audio and imaging licensing products face competition from other third-party providers of similar solutions as well as internal engineering and design groups among industry IC provider and consumer electronics manufacturers. 11 In the audio market, our primary competitor is Dolby Laboratories, which develops and markets, among other things, high definition audio products and services. Dolbys long standing market position, brand, business relationships, resources and inclusion in various industry standards provide it with a strong competitive position. In addition to Dolby, we compete in specific product markets with companies such as Fraunhofer IIS and various other consumer electronics product manufacturers. Many of these competitors have a wide variety of strengths that afford them competitive advantages, such as longer operating histories, greater resources, greater name recognition, or the ability to offer their technologies for a lower price or for free. We have historically competed effectively against these competitors due in part to our ability to position our brand as a premium offering that contains superior proprietary technology, the quality of our customer service, our inclusion in industry standards and our industry relationships. Our image processing technologies broadly compete with other image processing software vendors such as ArcSoft, Inc., as well as engineering and design groups of mobile phone and digital camera manufacturers that seek to provide similar technologies by employing different approaches. Connected Car Our HD Radio and DTS AutoStage solutions face competition from subscription-based digital service providers such as Sirius/XM, Pandora, Gracenote, and other digital audio and data service providers. Our in-cabin monitoring technologies broadly compete with other image processing software vendors targeting the automotive industry such as SmartEye and Seeing Machines, as well as engineering and design groups of tier one automotive suppliers that seek to provide similar technologies by employing different approaches with their internal teams. Pay-TV There are a number of companies that produce and market advanced media solutions such as UXs, IPGs, DVRs, search, recommendation, natural language voice, metadata, and advanced data and analytics in the various formats which compete, or we believe will compete, with our products and services over time. Principal competitive factors include brand recognition and awareness, product and service functionality, innovation, ease of use, personalization, content access and availability, mobility and pricing. While we are competitive across this range of factors, we believe our primary competitive differentiation includes our ability to integrate all of our products to create unique value to our customers and the depth and breadth of our IP portfolio. Our Platform Solutions face competition from companies such as Synamedia, MediaKind, Kudelski, SA, MobiTV, Inc., Enghouse Systems Limited, and from multiple system operators (MSOs) developed solutions such as Comcast X1 and Liberty Global plc's Horizon Media, which have created competing products that provide user interface software for use on STBs and CE and mobile devices. Such companies may offer more economically attractive agreements to service providers and CE manufacturers by bundling multiple products together. Another common competitor we encounter for our Pay-TV product offerings is a customer who chooses to build its own IPG and DVR solution. While we believe that we provide a strong alternative to do-it-yourself, as we have innovative, high-quality products ready to be implemented, with local and network DVR, integrated data distribution infrastructure and content, as well as third party services (such as VOD services), certain customers have moved to their own internal solutions. We differentiate our products by continuing to integrate our broad portfolio of products into a suite of solutions and services for our customers. We believe our solutions can speed our customers' time to market, can be deployed at a lower cost than internally-built products, and can be superior to do-it-yourself products. Over time, we expect to see new competitors and other competing technologies emerge. IP Licensing Segment The IP Licensing segment consists primarily of licensing our innovations to leading companies in the media and semiconductor industries. Licensing arrangements include access to one or more of our foundational patent portfolios and may also include access to some of our industry-leading technologies and proven know-how. Strategy We have adopted a proactive strategy designed to protect and extend our technology and intellectual property. We continue to grow our patent portfolios in size and relevance through ongoing investment in internal innovation, strategic management of our portfolios, and targeted acquisitions. 12 Media : We license our patented innovations for use with traditional linear television both in North America and internationally, and increasingly in connection with over-the-top and direct-to-consumer services that provide access to video inside and outside the home on a broad array of media consumption devices. We believe the continued growth of video consumption and the evolution of how consumers access and experience video present new opportunities for us to continue to develop patentable inventions, expand the industries we serve and to license additional patent rights. Semiconductor : With the rapidly rising cost and complexity of developing cutting-edge semiconductor manufacturing processes, the industry is increasingly looking toward advanced semiconductor packaging and 3D integration technologies to scale performance, power and cost for the next generation of electronics, including for 5G, IoT and cloud and edge computing enabled products. This trend presents new market opportunities for us as we continue to invest in the development, commercialization, and acquisition of such technologies, in particular hybrid bonding, and related IP. 13 Media IP For more than a quarter century, we have invented and developed fundamental innovations that have shaped how consumers find, watch, and enjoy video, and how providers of video deliver immersive experiences. Our patented inventions broadly 14 cover all aspects of the video experience, including guidance, discovery, search , recommendations, DVR/NDVR , VOD, OTT, multi-screen, personalization, data analytics, advertising , and other interactive applications. We license our media patent portfolios across multiple markets: Multichannel Video Programming Distributors : This market includes cable, satellite, and telecommunications television providers that aggregate and distribute linear content over their own networks (MVPDs), as well as television providers that aggregate and stream linear content over broadband networks (virtual MVPDs). Customers typically pay us a monthly per-subscriber fee and include many of the leading MVPDs and virtual MVPDs such as Altice USA (including Cablevision), AT&T (including DirecTV and AT&T Now), Charter, Comcast (including Sky), Cox, Dish Network (including Sling TV), Foxtel, Liberty Global, Shaw, Verizon, and Vodafone. Over-The-Top Video Service Providers, Social Media and Other New Media Companies : This market includes subscription video-on-demand (SVOD) service providers that offer online services and devices that enable internet streaming and downloading of movies, television shows and other video programing, content providers, networks and media companies that provide content directly to consumers through a variety of business models (e.g. SVOD, AVOD, EST, etc.) and social media companies that increasingly rely on and incorporate video as an integral part of their offerings. Customers have typically paid us fixed fees for specified periods of time and include some of the leading new media companies including Discovery, Netflix, Starz, ViacomCBS and three of the leading social media companies. Consumer Electronics (CE) Manufacturers : Producers of content access points such as smart televisions, streaming media devices, video game consoles, mobile devices, Blu-ray players, DVRs/NDVRs, and other connected media devices. Our CE licensees typically are structured around license fees based on the number of units that utilize our patents, for specified products, in defined territories. Our agreements with some of the larger CE manufacturers generally allow them to ship an unlimited number of units, provided they pay us fixed fees for specified periods of time. Select customers include Funai, LG Electronics, Roku, Samsung Electronics, Sharp, Sony, and TCL. Semiconductor IP Our semiconductor business has a long, well-established history of inventing, developing, and broadly licensing advanced semiconductor packaging, 3D integration, and related technologies. Our patented solutions are integrated into semiconductors that are deployed in billions of mobile, consumer, and computing electronic products. Leveraging the combination of our highly experienced technologists, scientists and engineers and our advanced research and development labs in San Jose, California and Raleigh, North Carolina, we continue to develop industry-leading 3D integration solutions such as hybrid bonding that meet the demand for enhanced performance, functionality, power and cost for a wide range of applications including 5G, IoT, and cloud and edge computing. We innovate and license our semiconductor patent portfolios and technology solutions across multiple markets: Memory . Providers of DRAM, High Bandwidth Memory (HBM) and NAND semiconductors commonly used in electronic products such as mobile phones, laptops, PCs, game consoles, and servers. Customers typically have paid us fixed fees for specified periods of time and include Samsung and SK hynix. Sensors . Providers of image and time-of-flights sensors used in mobile phones, consumer electronics and automobiles. Customers typically have paid us fixed fees for specified periods of time or a per-unit fee and include Canon, Omnivision, Samsung, and Sony. RF Components . Providers of switches and filters for cellular and wireless products such as mobile phones, tablets and laptops. Customers typically have paid us fixed fees for specified periods of time or a per-unit fee and include Broadcom and Silanna RF (acquired by Qualcomm). Foundry . Manufacturing service providers for fabless semiconductor companies who design and sell semiconductor products. Customers typically pay us a per-unit fee and include Teledyne DALSA, Tower Semiconductor, and UMC. Competition Due to the exclusionary nature of patent rights, we do not compete, in a traditional sense, with other patent holders for patent licensing relationships. Other patent holders do not have the same rights to the inventions and technologies encompassed by our patent portfolio. In any service, device or piece of equipment that contains intellectual property, the provider or manufacturer may need to obtain licenses from multiple holders of intellectual property. In licensing our patent portfolio, we compete with other patent holders for a share of the royalties that certain licensees may argue to be the total royalty that is supported by a certain service(s) or product(s), which may face practical limitations. 15 We compete primarily with internal technology development groups within our respective technology licensing markets, who may create their own solutions that compete with technologies that we license. In general, there may be several ways to solve a particular technical problem and there can be no assurance that our inventions and approaches will be the ones generally adopted by the industry. We also compete with other companies in acquiring patent portfolios . Protecting Our Investment Although we are engaged with and have successfully licensed and transferred our technologies to many companies, some of the companies that use our patented technologies have nonetheless chosen not to enter into license agreements with us. Consequently, we have, at times, initiated litigation to enforce our IP rights and protect our investment. We view litigation as an instrument of last resort, and we use it only when our efforts to reach negotiated licenses have stalled or failed. If we are unable to secure license agreements on favorable terms through negotiations, or if licensees do not comply with the terms of their licenses, we might have to file new litigation to enforce our rights. See Part 1, Item 3- Legal Proceedings. Intellectual Property Portfolio We operate in an industry in which innovation, investment in new ideas and protection of our intellectual property rights are critical for success. We protect our innovations and inventions through a variety of means, including but not limited to applying for patent protection domestically and internationally. As of December 31, 2020, we held approximately 4,615 United States issued patents and 1,235 patent applications, as well as approximately 4,000 foreign issued patents and 1,650 patent applications. The last of the issued patents to expire is in 2039. From time to time, we acquire complementary IP portfolios. Our criteria for patent acquisitions include: compatibility with our existing portfolios, the number and jurisdiction of patent assets, the technical and legal strength of the patents, the actual or likely adoption by industry, and the economic value of the inventions. See Part I, Item 1A- Risk Factors. Research & Development As demonstrated by our portfolio of industry recognized, widely-deployed advanced technologies and intellectual property (IP), we have a long track record of innovating in the fields of audio, imaging, video discovery, and semiconductors. We believe that ongoing investment in R&D is required for us to remain competitive in the markets we serve. Today, we have a collection of world-class talent and strong research and development capabilities in various locations throughout the world. Starting with core research, machine learning and advanced algorithm development we continue to focus on IP development and next generation technology solutions. Our ongoing investment in R&D supported by a strong industry network of partners enables us to deliver differentiated, cost effective solutions that enhance the end user experience for an ever-larger universe of addressable markets. Customer Concentration The following table sets forth revenue generated from customers comprising 10% or more of total revenue for the periods indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 Comcast Corporation 27 % (1) * * SK hynix Inc. * 17 % 12 % Intel Corporation * 11 % * Samsung Electronics, Co. Ltd. * * 38 % * denotes less than 10% of total revenue. (1) Primarily related to revenue for past royalties recorded in the IP Licensing segment in the fourth quarter of 2020. We expect to recognize revenue related to this license agreement into 2031. For details, refer to Note 4 Revenue of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 16 Legislative and Regulatory Actions A number of government and legislative initiatives have been enacted to encourage development and implementation of technologies that protect the rights and intellectual property of the content owners. For example, the U.S. and other countries have adopted certain laws, including the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998 ("DMCA") and the European Copyright Directive, which are aimed at the prevention of piracy of content and the manufacture and sale of products that circumvent copy protection technologies, such as those covered by our patents. Compatibility Between Cable Systems and CE Equipment The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has been working for over a decade to implement a congressional mandate to create a competitive market for cable television STBs and other devices to access video programming on cable systems (navigation devices) and give consumers a choice in the devices used to access such programming, while still allowing the cable systems to have control over the secured access to their systems. To meet its statutory obligation without compromising the security of video services, the FCC required cable systems to make available a security element (now known as a CableCARD) separate from the basic navigation device needed to access video program channels. In 2003, the FCC adopted regulations implementing an agreement between cable television system operators and CE manufacturers to facilitate the retail availability of so-called plug and play devices that utilize unidirectional CableCARDs, including digital televisions and other digital devices that enable subscribers to access cable television programming without the need for a STB (but without the ability for consumers to use interactive content). In September 2020, the FCC eliminated rules requiring cable providers to support CableCARD. While the cable industry has continued to provide CableCARDs for third-party devices like ours, we cannot predict the ultimate impact of any new technical equipment regulations on our business and operations. Current FCC regulations no longer prohibit multi-channel video service providers from deploying navigation devices with combined security and non-security functions, further developments with respect to these issues could impact the availability and/or demand for plug and play devices, particularly bi-directional devices and STBs, all of which could affect demand for UXs incorporated in STBs or CE devices. General Government Regulation We are subject to a number of foreign and domestic laws and regulations that affect companies that import or export software and technology, including encryption technology, such as the U.S. export control regulations as administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce. We are also subject to a number of foreign and domestic laws that affect companies conducting business on the internet. In addition, because of the increasing popularity of the internet and the growth of online services, laws relating to user privacy, freedom of expression, content, advertising, accessibility, network neutrality, information security and intellectual property rights are being debated and considered for adoption by many countries throughout the world. Each jurisdiction may enact different standards, which could impact our ability to deliver data, services or other solutions through the internet. We are subject to international laws (including the General Data Protection Regulation) associated with data protection, privacy, and other aspects of our business in Europe and elsewhere and the interpretation and application of data protection laws remains uncertain. In addition, because our services are accessible worldwide, foreign jurisdictions may claim that we are required to comply with their laws. Further, the application of existing laws regulating or requiring licenses for certain businesses of our advertisers can be unclear. The resulting regulation, if any, may alter our ability to target advertising or provide data about the end-users and/or customers and their behavior. Additionally, the privacy regulatory landscape in the U.S. changes rapidly and we may become subject to new privacy or cybersecurity regulations. Such laws and regulations could affect our ability to process personal data (in particular, our ability to use certain data for purposes such as risk or fraud avoidance, marketing or advertising), our ability to control our costs by using certain vendors or service providers or our ability to offer certain services in certain jurisdictions. For example, the California Consumer Privacy Act, or CCPA, became effective on January 1, 2020. The CCPA creates new individual privacy rights for consumers (as that word is broadly defined in the law) and places increased privacy and security obligations on entities handling personal data of consumers or households. The CCPA requires covered companies to provide new disclosures to California consumers, provide such consumers new ways to opt-out of certain sales of personal information and allows for a new cause of action for data breaches. It is unclear how the CCPA will be interpreted, but as currently written, it will likely impact our business activities and exemplifies the vulnerability of our business to not only cyber threats but also the evolving regulatory environment related to personal data. 17 In the U.S., service providers have been subject to claims of defamation, libel, invasion of privacy and other data protection claims, torts, unlawful activity, copyright or trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials searched and the ads posted or the content generated by users. In addition, several other federal laws could have an impact on our business. For example, the DMCA has provisions that limit, but do not eliminate, our liability for hosting or linking to third-party websites that include materials that infringe copyrights or other rights, so long as we comply with the statutory requirements of this act. The Children's Online Privacy Protection Act restricts the ability of service providers to collect information from minors and the Protection of Children from Sexual Predators Act of 1998 requires service providers to report evidence of violations of federal child pornography laws under certain circumstances . Human Capital Resources The opportunities for our success and growth depend in large part on our ability to attract, develop, and retain a talented and engaged workforce. In particular, we are competing for technical talent and we need to offer not only robust and attractive compensation packages but also provide broad opportunities for our employees to make an impact, grow, and develop. As of December 31, 2020, we had a global talent base consisting of approximately 1,850 full-time employees. To enable our talent to actively contribute to, and have a positive impact on, the overall business and culture, we developed and maintain a set of programs and initiatives. These programs include competitive compensation and benefits offerings, skill and management development, diversity and inclusion initiatives, goal and performance management, and succession planning. In support of these efforts, our Board of Directors monitors these programs and initiatives and provides guidance and feedback as appropriate. Our goal is to provide a work environment that empowers our teams and enables them to enjoy a healthy and productive work-life balance for themselves, their families, and our community. Our incentives are based on merits, and we have a strong pay-for-performance culture. We benchmark our total rewards annually to ensure our compensation and benefit programs remain competitive with industry peers. Our compensation framework for employees reflects a combination of fixed and variable pay including base salary, bonuses, performance awards, and stock-based compensation. We offer employees benefits that vary by country and are designed to meet or exceed local laws and are competitive in the marketplace. We invest in the career growth of our employees by providing a wide range of development opportunities, including face-to-face, virtual, social and self-directed learning, mentoring, coaching, and external development. Annual assessments are performed to identify talent needs based on department goals and to evaluate how each function is positioned from a talent perspective. We believe in the principles of a learning organization and strive to provide continuous educational opportunities for our employees. In 2020, we invested in a global online learning platform. More than 200 courses and programs have been created, offering a wide range of skill development opportunities for employees to become more knowledgeable and effective in their roles. Additionally, we also offer customized leadership and management development programs for our management teams. We leverage our manager ecosystem, coupled with industry-standard performance management tools, to align corporate goals with employee objectives. Employees are encouraged to create and align individual, functional and team-based goals, track performance against goals, write self-evaluations, and solicit feedback. We have demonstrated support and commitment to developing a culture of non-discrimination and embracing diversity and inclusion throughout our workforce. Our current employee resource groups represent the LGBTQ+ community, the black community, women, and veterans. We also have formed a Diversity and Inclusion council comprised of all levels of employees and senior executives. The purpose of the council is, among other things, to identify and address issues of diversity and inclusion through multiple and unique perspectives from a diverse group of our employees. In June 2020, we joined the business coalition in support of the Equality Act, a measure that supports federal legislation that would provide the same basic protections to LGBTQ+ people as are provided to other protected groups under federal law. Additionally, we comply fully with Californias board diversity legislation that requires a minimum number of female directors and directors from underrepresented communities. We measure employee experience by collecting insight and understanding of engagement and satisfaction. We use an employee engagement survey, executive roundtables, and employee focus groups to solicit input. Task forces are regularly created to identify and address gaps which result in changes to policies and practices and benefits offerings. A recent survey to assess employee well-being during the initial working-from-home period related to the COVID-19 pandemic resulted in the payment of working-from-home stipend to employees which covered certain costs associated with setting up home offices. During the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, we have focused on the health, safety, and well-being of our employees. We have: 18 Established office reentry guidelines consistent with CDC and local government mandates Conducted a working-from-home survey to pulse check employee well-being Offered various training and learning opportunities, including relevant trainings to help employees better manage remote working, childcare, social isolation, etc. Enhanced internal communications strategies using multiple vehicles such as a corporate intranet, Zoom, Slack, videos, etc., to ensure connection and contacts with employees Provided a number of well-being offerings and events, including online yoga, Headspace (a mindfulness app), various online contests, and virtual happy hours None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement or are represented by a labor union. We have not experienced any organized work stoppages, and we consider the relationships with our employees to be positive . Available Information Our Internet address is www.xperi.com, where we make available, free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our SEC reports can be accessed through the investor relations section of our website. The information found on our website is not incorporated into this or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC. Item 1A. Risk Factors Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock. Any of the following risks and uncertainties may be exacerbated by the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and related events. Risk Factor Summary We may not be able to successfully integrate the businesses of Xperi Corporation and TiVo Corporation in a cost-effective manner or realize the anticipated benefits from the Mergers. We may not be able to complete the contemplated business separation in a timely manner or at all, and even if such separation occurs, we may not achieve the expected benefits (including the tax treatment) of such transaction. Our business has been, and is expected to continue to be, impacted by the global COVID-19 pandemic. We enter into license agreements that have fixed expiration dates and if, upon expiration or termination, we are unable to renew or replace such license agreements on terms favorable to us, our results of operations could be harmed. The nature of some of our business relationships may restrict our ability to operate freely in the future and could be interpreted in a manner that adversely affects revenues, including from licensing, under those agreements. The success of our patent licensing business is dependent on the quality of our patent assets and our ability to create and implement new technologies or expand our licensable technology through acquisitions. The structure and timing of our license and settlement agreements may cause fluctuations in our quarterly or annual financial results. The long-term success of our business is dependent on a royalty-based business model, which is inherently risky. It is difficult for us to verify royalty amounts owed to us under our licensing agreements, and we may lose revenue. If we fail to develop and deliver, on a timely basis, innovative technologies and services in response to changes in our markets and industries, our business could decline. We face competitive risks in the provision of entertainment offerings involving the distribution of digital content provided by third party application providers through broadband. Our pursuit of acquisitions and divestures may adversely affect our business or stock price if we cannot successfully execute our strategies and may be impossible to execute due to the lack of acceptable financing or for other reasons. If we fail to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, contract rights, our confidential information, or our brand, or if third parties assert that we violate their intellectual property rights, our business may suffer. Our licensees may delay, refuse to or be unable to make payments to us due to financial difficulties or otherwise, or shift their licensed products to other companies to lower their royalties to us. Some of our Semiconductor IP license agreements may convert to fully paid-up licenses at the expiration of their terms, or upon certain milestones, and we may not receive royalties after that time. 19 If we are unable to maintain a sufficient amount of content released in the DTS audio format, demand for the technologies, products, and services that we offer to consumer electronics product manufacturers may significantly decline, which would adversely impact our business and prospects. Demand for our HD Radio technology may be insufficient to sustain projected growth. If we are unable to further penetrate the streaming and downloadable content delivery markets and adapt our technologies for those markets, our royalties and ability to grow our business could be adversely impacted. The success of certain of our solutions depends on the interoperability of our technologies with consumer hardware devices. Our failure to adequately manage our increasingly complex distribution agreements, including licensing, development and engineering services, may cause unexpected delays and loss of revenue in the deployment of advanced television solutions. We make significant investments in new products and services that may not achieve technological feasibility or profitability or that may limit our growth. Our products and services could be susceptible to errors, defects, or unintended performance problems that could result in lost revenue, liability or delayed or limited market acceptance. Dependence on the cooperation of pay-TV service providers, television broadcasters, hardware manufacturers, data providers and delivery mechanisms could adversely affect our revenue. We are dependent on third parties for metadata and content. We depend on a limited number of third parties to design, manufacture, distribute and supply hardware devices upon which our TiVo software and service operate. We maintain inventories of TiVo-branded products based on our demand forecast, which may be incorrect and lead to our carrying excess or insufficient inventory. Qualifying, certifying and supporting our technologies, products and services is time-consuming and expensive. We are exposed to the risks related to international sales and operations. Further deterioration of trade relations between the United States and China, other trade conflicts and barriers, economic sanctions, and national security protection policies could limit or prevent existing or potential customers from doing business with us. Our systems, networks and online business activities are subject to cybersecurity and stability risks, information technology system failures, and security breaches. Our business operations are subject to natural disasters and industry-wide failure and adverse events. Changes in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles could affect our financial position and results of operations. We have significant indebtedness which could adversely affect our financial position. Our variable rate indebtedness may expose us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt costs to increase significantly. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our debt obligations. Repayment of debt is dependent on cash flow generated by our subsidiaries and their respective subsidiaries. If our goodwill and other intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting related to management review of our forecast assumptions underlying our goodwill impairment analysis and acquisition accounting, which could, if not remediated, adversely affect our ability to report our financial and operating results accurately or on a timely basis, and impact overall investor confidence and the value of our common stock. Changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations, could adversely affect our effective tax rates and negatively affect our business and financial condition. Our effective tax rate depends on our ability to secure the tax benefits of our international corporate structure, on the application of the tax laws of various jurisdictions and on how we operate our business. Our subsidiaries have in the past recorded, and may in the future record, significant valuation allowances on our deferred tax assets, and the recording and release of such allowances may have a material impact on our results of operations. The IRS may assert positions that may negatively impact the tax-free status of distributions intended to qualify for tax-free treatment, and the desired benefits of such distributions may not be achieved. 20 The investment of our cash, cash equivalents and investments in marketable debt and equity securities is subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. New governmental regulations or new interpretations of existing laws, including legislative initiatives seeking to, or judicial or regulatory decisions that, weaken patent protection or copyright law, could cause legal uncertainties and result in harm to our business. Failure to safeguard the security and privacy of our customers confidential data and remain in compliance with laws that govern such data may harm our reputation and brand and expose us to legal action. Current and future governmental and industry standards may significantly limit our business opportunities. Our activities to advertise, market and sell our services directly to consumers are highly impacted by constantly evolving state and federal laws and regulations. Some software we provide may be subject to open source licenses, which may restrict how we use or distribute our software or require that we release the source code of certain products subject to those licenses. Our financial and operating results may vary, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Seasonal trends may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate and our inability to forecast these trends may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may not pay dividends or pay dividends at a consistent rate, and any decrease in or suspension of the dividend could cause our stock price to decline. Our stock repurchase program could increase the volatility of the price of our common stock, and the program may be suspended or terminated at any time, which may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws or Delaware law might delay or prevent a change of control transaction and depress the market price of our stock. Decreased effectiveness of stock-based compensation could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees. Use of our common stock for future acquisitions may be limited. Stock transfer restrictions in our certificate of incorporation may act as an anti-takeover device. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains forum selection provisions that could limit the ability of stockholders to bring claims against us and our directors, officers and employees in jurisdictions preferred by stockholders. 21 Risks Relating to Integration of the Combined Company and Planned Separation of the IP and Product Businesses We may not be able to complete the contemplated business separation in a timely manner or at all, and even if such separation occurs, we may not achieve the expected benefits (including the tax treatment) of such transaction. As previously disclosed, we intend to pursue a separation of our product business and IP licensing business through a tax-efficient transaction, resulting in two independent, publicly traded companies. We are currently in the planning stage for such separation and are evaluating the optimal timing of the contemplated business separation. We currently project that the separation will not be completed earlier than the first half of 2022. In the event that our board decides to proceed with any contemplated business separation transaction, we currently anticipate that such contemplated business separation transaction, if undertaken, would be achieved through a pro-rata spin-off transaction intended to qualify as tax-free under Section 355 of the Code, in which our stockholders, at such time, would receive shares of capital stock in the resulting spun-off company. Our board may ultimately determine to abandon any contemplated business separation transaction, and such determination could have an adverse impact on the value of our company. Additionally, there are many determinations with respect to undertaking a contemplated business separation that, by their nature, cannot be determined until we fully understand our combined business operations, including definitive determinations with regard to the capital structure of the two businesses and allocation of liabilities among them. As such, there are many factors that could impact the structure or timing of, the anticipated benefits from, or determination to ultimately proceed with, any contemplated business separation, including, among others, global and regional economic conditions, instability in credit markets, declining consumer and business confidence, fluctuating commodity prices and interest rates, volatile exchange rates, tax considerations, and other challenges that could affect the global economy, specific market conditions in one or more of the industries of the businesses proposed to be separated, and changes in the regulatory or legal environment. Such changes could adversely impact the value of a contemplated business separation transaction to the combined companys stockholders. Additionally, to the extent our board determines to proceed with any contemplated business separation, the consummation of such transaction is a complex, costly and time-consuming process, and there can be no guarantee that such separation will be completed in accordance with the timeline that we establish or achieve the intended benefits (including the tax treatment). An inability to realize the full extent of the anticipated benefits (including the tax treatment) of any contemplated business separation, as well as any delays encountered in the process, could have an adverse effect upon the revenue, level of expenses and operating results of the product business, the IP licensing business and/or the combined company. We may not be able to successfully integrate and combine the businesses of Xperi Corporation and TiVo Corporation and we may not realize the anticipated benefits from the Mergers. On June 1, 2020, we completed the previously announced Mergers between Xperi Corporation (Xperi) and TiVo Corporation (TiVo) as contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger and Reorganization, dated as of December 18, 2019, as amended on January 31, 2020, by and among us, Xperi, TiVo and other parties thereto. The integration and combination of the separate operations of the combined businesses is a complex and time-consuming process that has required and may continue to require substantial resources and effort. We may face significant challenges in completing the consolidation of our combined operations, integrating technologies, procedures, and policies, as well as addressing the different corporate cultures. If we are not successfully integrated, the anticipated benefits of the Mergers may not be realized fully (or at all) or may take longer to realize than expected. We must successfully combine the businesses of Xperi and TiVo in a manner that permits expected synergies to be realized. In addition, we must achieve the anticipated synergies in a timely manner and without adversely affecting current revenue and investments in future growth. If we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives (including in a manner that does not negatively affect any contemplated business separation), the anticipated benefits of the Mergers may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. We may face significant challenges in implementing such integration, including without limitation: difficulties integrating product technologies in a manner that creates technical synergies or that yields new or improved product applications in targeted markets; latent impacts resulting from the diversion of management teams attention from ongoing business concerns as a result of the devotion of managements attention to the Mergers and performance shortfalls of the respective businesses; ongoing diversion of the attention of management from the operation of the combined companys business as a result of any contemplated business separation; difficulties in achieving anticipated synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects; the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying expectations regarding the integration process, including with respect to the intended tax efficient transactions; unanticipated issues, costs, and strained resources in integrating information technology, communications programs, financial procedures and operations, and other systems, procedures, and policies; 22 difficulties in managing a larger combined company, addressing differences in business culture and retaining key personnel , and employees; unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations; managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of the combined company and any contemplated tax efficient separation transaction; failure to maintain relationships with existing customers, including customers who may be unfamiliar with the combined company and may perceive conflict with the combined intellectual property business; failure to accurately forecast and communicate the long-term value or profitability of either business, including as a result of any failure to implement the business strategy; uncertainty that employees may experience about their roles within the combined company and following any contemplated business separation, which may have an additional adverse effect on our ability to attract or retain key management personnel and other key employees; and coordinating geographically separate organizations. Some of these factors will be outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs and diversion of managements time and energy, as well as decreases in the amount of expected revenue which could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The integration process and other disruptions resulting from the Mergers may also adversely affect our relationships with employees, suppliers, customers, distributors, licensors and others, and difficulties in integrating the separate businesses or regulatory functions could harm the reputation of the combined company. In addition, we may not be able to persuade markets to adopt new products or technologies developed as a result of the integration, which may cause a decline of our revenue. If we are not able to adequately address integration challenges, we may be unable to successfully complete the integration of our operations, effect any contemplated business separation or realize the anticipated benefits of the Mergers. We have incurred and will incur significant costs in connection with the integration of the combined company. We are in the process of integrating a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems in connection with the consummation of the Mergers. While we have assumed that a certain level of expenses would be incurred in connection with the Mergers and post-merger activities, there are many factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount of, or the timing of, anticipated expenses with respect to the integration and implementation of the combined businesses, which may exceed the level of expenses that we have anticipated. Our future results will suffer if we do not effectively manage our expanded operations following the Mergers. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to manage our expanded business as a result of the Mergers, which may pose substantial challenges for management, including but not limited to, challenges related to the management and monitoring of a greater volume and variety of operations, expanded managerial systems and financial controls and associated increased costs and complexity. We may also face significant challenges in the ongoing training and managing the combined employee base and meeting demand and quality standards required by existing and potential customers. There can be no assurance that the combined company will be successful or that it will realize the expected operating efficiencies, cost savings, revenue enhancements and other benefits that we anticipated from the Mergers. We may not be able to rationalize and effectively manage our disparate business operations, which may cause us to dispose of or discontinue product lines, technologies, assets or operations if they do not fit into the strategic vision or meet forecasted results. While we believe that the product and IP licensing businesses of the combined company after the Mergers are complementary and create significant synergy, our future efforts to rationalize the disparate business operations could require our management to refocus on certain business operations while disinvesting in others. We have been integrating the respective product and licensing businesses and operating them as separate business units in order to facilitate a potential separation of these units at a later date. Additionally, as business strategy and product markets continue to evolve, we may dispose, discontinue, or divest product lines or business divisions. Disposing or discontinuing existing product lines or business divisions, or separating business units, provides no assurance that operating expenses will be reduced or will not cause us to incur material charges associated with such decision. Furthermore, the disposition or discontinuance of an existing product line or business division, or separation or spinoff of a business unit, entails various risks, including the risk of not being able to obtain a purchaser, or, if obtained, that the purchase price may not be equal to at least the net asset book value for the product line or business unit, or the value that investors place on it as reflected by our stock price. We may not be able to achieve any separation of our product and licensing businesses despite our current consideration of such a separation. Other risks of such actions include adversely affecting employee morale, managing the expectations of, and maintaining good relations with, customers of disposed or discontinued product lines or business divisions, which could prevent selling other products to them. We may also incur other 23 significant liabilities and costs associated with disposal or discontinuance of product lines or business divisions, or separation of business units, including employee severance costs, relocation expenses, and impairment of lease obligations and long-lived assets. The effects of such actions may adversely impact our business operations and financial results. Risks Relating to Our Business Operations Our business and results of operations have been, and are expected to continue to be, impacted by the global COVID-19 pandemic. Our business and results of operations have been adversely affected by the global COVID-19 pandemic and related events and we expect its impact to continue. Given the ongoing and dynamic nature of the circumstances, it is difficult to predict the full impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our businesses, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to address its adverse impacts fully or effectively. The impact to date has included periods of significant volatility in various markets and industries. The volatility has had, and we anticipate it will continue to have, an adverse effect on our customers and on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and may result in an impairment of our long-lived assets, including goodwill, increased credit losses and impairments of investments in other companies. In particular, the automotive market, as well as the broad consumer electronics industries, have been and we anticipate will continue to be impacted by the pandemic and/or other events beyond our control, and further volatility could have an additional negative impact on these industries, customers, and our business. For example, we experienced an approximately 15% decline in our royalty revenue in 2020 from our products sold to the automotive market, such as HD Radio, as compared to the prior year, and currently expect automotive royalties will remain below previous levels for at least the near-term. In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic and to a lesser extent, U.S. restrictions on trade with certain Chinese customers have and may continue to impact the financial conditions of our customers, who may not be able to satisfy their obligations under our agreements timely or at all. For example, we recorded provisions for credit losses of approximately $2.0 million and $4.3 million in the first and fourth quarters of 2020, respectively, due to the heightened risk of nonpayment on existing accounts receivable as a result of the impaired financial condition and liquidity positions of certain of our customers. In addition, actions by United States federal, state and foreign governments to address the COVID-19 pandemic, including travel bans, stay-at-home orders and school, business and entertainment venue closures, also had a significant adverse effect on the markets in which we conduct our businesses. COVID-19 poses the risk that our workforce, suppliers, and other partners may be prevented from conducting normal business activities for an indefinite period of time, including due to shutdowns or stay-at-home orders that may be requested or mandated by governmental authorities. We also implemented policies to allow our employees to work remotely as a result of the pandemic as we reviewed processes related to workplace safety, including social distancing and sanitation practices recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic could also cause delays in obtaining new customers and executing renewals and could also impact our business as consumer behavior changes in response to the slowed economic conditions. Furthermore, our integration effort following the Mergers may be delayed or interrupted due to the operational challenges and various restrictions and limitations imposed on us as result of the COVID-19 pandemic, which may adversely affect the success of the integration and anticipated benefits of the Mergers. The extent of impacts resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic and other events beyond our control will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including new information which may emerge concerning the severity of the pandemic, actions taken to contain the coronavirus or its impact, the emergence of transmissible or severe strains of coronavirus, the speed at which recently authorized vaccines are administered and the effectiveness of these vaccines in slowing the pandemic, and divergent government orders and actions taken in response to the pandemic, among others. Even after the pandemic has subsided and economic activities gradually reopen and increase, we may continue to experience material and adverse impacts to our business, operating results, and financial condition as a result of the pandemics lasting global economic impact, including any recession that has occurred or may occur in the future. The ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic or a similar health epidemic is highly uncertain and subject to change. We do not yet know the full extent of potential delays or impacts on our applicable business, operations or the global economy. We enter into license agreements that have fixed expiration dates and if, upon expiration or termination, we are unable to renew or replace such license agreements on terms favorable to us, our results of operations could be harmed. We enter into license agreements that have fixed expiration dates. Upon expiration of such agreements we need to renew or replace these agreements in order to maintain our royalty base. If we are unable to replace the royalties from an expiring license, either through a renewal or with similar royalties from other customers, our results of operations could be adversely impacted as compared to periods prior to such expiration. 24 Furthermore, we may not be able to continue licensing customers on terms favorable to us, under the existing terms or at all, which would harm our results of operations. While we have expanded our licensable technology portfolio through internal development and patents purchased from third parties, there is no guarantee that these measures will lead to continued royalties. If we fail to continue to do business with our current licensees, our business would be materially adversely affected. The nature of some of our business relationships may restrict our ability to operate freely in the future and could be interpreted in a manner that adversely affects revenues, including from licensing, under those agreements . From time to time, we have engaged and may engage in the future in discussions with other parties concerning business relationships, which have included and may in the future include exclusivity provisions (such as geographic or product specific limitations), most favored customer limitations, and patent licensing arrangements. While we believe that such business relationships have historically enhanced our ability to finance and develop our business model or otherwise were justified by the terms of the particular relationship, the terms and conditions of such business relationships may place some restrictions on the operation of our business, including where we operate, who we work with, and what kinds of activities we may engage in, in the future. Additionally, some of our license agreements contain "most favored nation" clauses. These clauses typically provide that if we enter into an agreement with another licensee on more favorable terms, we must offer some of those terms to our existing licensees. We have entered into a number of license agreements with terms that differ in some respects from those contained in other agreements. These agreements may obligate us to provide different, more favorable, terms to licensees, which could, if applied, result in lower revenues or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. While we believe that we have appropriately complied with the most favored nation terms included in our license agreements, these contracts are complex and other parties could reach a different conclusion that, if enforced, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. The success of our IP licensing business is dependent on the quality of our patent assets and our ability to create and implement new technologies or expand our licensable technology through acquisitions. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from patent licenses and royalties, including structured settlement payments. The success of our patent licensing business depends on our ability to continue to develop and acquire high quality patents. We devote significant resources to developing new technologies and to developing and acquiring patents to address the evolving needs of the media and semiconductor industries, and we must continue to do so in the future to remain competitive. Developments in our technologies are inherently complex and require long development cycles and a substantial investment before we can determine their commercial viability. Moreover, competition for acquiring high quality patents is intense and there is no assurance that we can continue to acquire such patents on favorable terms. We may not be able to develop and market new or improved technologies, or to develop or acquire high quality patents, in a timely or commercially acceptable fashion. Furthermore, our patents will expire in the future. Our current U.S. issued patents expire at various times through 2039. We need to develop or acquire successful innovations and obtain royalty-generating patents on those innovations before our current patents expire, and our failure to do so would significantly harm our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The structure and timing of our license and settlement agreements may cause fluctuations in our quarterly or annual financial results. From time to time we enter into license and settlement agreements that include pricing or payment terms that result in quarter-to-quarter or year-over-year fluctuations in our revenue and cash flows. The effect of these terms may also cause our aggregate annual revenue to grow less rapidly than annual growth in the applicable end market. Additionally, our customers may fail to pay, delay payment of or underpay what they owe to us under our license and settlement agreements, which may in turn require us to enforce our contractual rights through legal proceedings, resulting in payment amounts and timing different than expected based on the terms of our license and settlement agreements. This also may cause our revenue and cash flows to fluctuate on a quarter-to-quarter or year-over-year basis. Some of our Semiconductor IP license agreements may convert to fully paid-up licenses at the expiration of their terms, or upon certain milestones, and we may not receive royalties after that time. 25 From time to time we enter into Semiconductor IP license agreements that automatically convert to fully paid-up licenses upon expiration or upon reaching certain milestones. We may not receive further royalties from customers for any licensed technology under those agreements if they convert to fully paid-up licenses because such customers will be entitled to continue using some, if not all, of the relevant intellectual property or technology under the terms of the license agreements without further payment, even if relevant patents or technologies are still in effect. If we cannot find another source of royalties to replace the royalties from these license agreements converting to fully paid-up licenses, our results of operations following such conversion would be materially adversely affected. The long-term success of our business is dependent on a royalty-based business model, which is inherently risky. The long-term success of our business is dependent on future royalties paid to us by customers. Royalty payments under our licenses may be based upon, among other things, the number of subscribers for pay-TV, a percent of net sales, a per-unit sold basis or a fixed quarterly or annual amount. We are dependent upon our ability to structure, negotiate and enforce agreements for the determination and payment of royalties, as well as upon our customers compliance with their agreements. We face risks inherent in a royalty-based business model, many of which are outside of our control, such as the following: the number of subscribers our pay-TV customers have or the number of set top-boxes our pay-TV customers provide to their end-user subscribers; the rate of adoption and incorporation of our technology by semiconductor manufacturers, assemblers, foundry, manufacturers of consumer and communication electronics, and the automotive and surveillance industry; the willingness and ability of materials and equipment suppliers to produce materials and equipment that support our licensed technology, in a quantity sufficient to enable volume manufacturing; the ability of our customers to purchase such materials and equipment on a cost-effective and timely basis; the length of the design cycle and the ability of us and our customers to successfully integrate certain of our imaging technologies into their integrated circuits; the demand for products that incorporate our licensed technology; the cyclicality of supply and demand for products using our licensed technology; the impact of economic downturns; and the impact of poor financial performance of our customers. For example, the ability to enjoy digital entertainment content downloaded or streamed over the internet has caused some consumers to elect to cancel their pay-TV subscriptions. If our pay-TV customers are unable to maintain their subscriber bases, the royalties they owe us may decline. Our licensees may delay, refuse to or be unable to make payments to us due to financial difficulties or otherwise, or shift their licensed products to other companies to lower their royalties to us. A number of our customers may face severe financial difficulties from time to time, which may result in their inability to make payments to us in a timely manner, or at all. These risks may be heightened by operating and cash flow disruptions these companies face as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, we have had a history of, and we may in the future experience, customers that delay or refuse to make payments owed to us under license or settlement agreements. Our customers may also merge with or may shift the manufacture of licensed products to companies that are not currently licensees of our technology. This could make the collection process complex and difficult, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. It is difficult for us to verify royalty amounts owed to us under our licensing agreements, and this may cause us to lose revenue. The terms of our license agreements often require our customers to document their use of our technology and report related data to us on a quarterly basis. Although our license terms generally give us the right to audit books and records of our customers to verify this information, audits can be expensive, time consuming, and may not be cost justified based on our understanding of our customers businesses, especially given the international nature of our customers. Our license compliance program audits certain customers to review the accuracy of the information contained in their royalty reports in an effort to decrease the likelihood that we will not receive the royalty to which we are entitled under the terms of our license agreements, but we cannot give assurances that such audits will be effective to that end. 26 If we fail to develop and timely deliver innovative technologies and services in response to changes in our markets and industries, our business could decline. The markets for our products, services and technologies are characterized by rapid change and technological evolution and obsolescence, new and improved product introduction, changing consumer demand, increasingly competitive landscape, and evolving industry standards. We will need to continue to expend considerable resources on research and development in the future in order to continue to design, deliver and enhance innovative audio, imaging, media, entertainment, and semiconductor products, services and technologies. The development of enhanced and new technologies, products, and services is a complex, costly and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation, highly skilled engineering and development personnel, and the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. Despite our efforts, we: may not receive significant revenue from our current research and development efforts for several years, if at all; cannot assure you that the level of funding and significant resources we are committing for investments in new products, services and technologies will be sufficient or result in successful new products, services or technologies; cannot assure you that our newly developed products, services or technologies can be successfully protected as proprietary intellectual property rights or will not infringe the intellectual property rights of others; cannot assure you that any new products or services that we develop will achieve market acceptance; cannot prevent our products, services and technologies from becoming obsolete due to rapid advancements in technology and changes in consumer preferences; cannot assure you that revenue from new products, services or technologies will offset any decline in revenue from our products, services and technologies which may become obsolete; cannot assure you that our competitors and/or potential customers may not develop products, services or technologies similar to those developed by us, resulting in a reduction in the potential demand for our newly developed products, services or technologies; and may not correctly identify new or changing market trends at an early enough stage to capitalize on market opportunities. Furthermore, the decision by a party dominant in the value chain to provide competing technologies at very low or no cost could cause our customers and other manufacturers not to utilize our technologies or services. Our customers may choose to use technologies that their own in-house engineering teams have developed, or in which they have an interest. Accordingly, our revenue could decline if our customers choose not to incorporate our technologies in their products, or if they sell fewer products incorporating our technologies. Our failure to successfully develop new and improved products, services and technologies, including as a result of any of the risks described above, may reduce our future growth and profitability and may adversely affect our business, results and financial condition. Our products and services face intense competition from various sources, and we may not be able to compete effectively. We expect that our technologies will continue to compete with technologies of internal design groups at competing companies or from our customers. The internal design groups of these companies create their own audio, imaging, media and semiconductor solutions. If these internal design groups design around our patents or introduce unique solutions superior to our technology, they may not need to license our technology. These groups may design technology that is less expensive to implement or that enables products with higher performance or additional features. Many of these groups have substantially greater resources, greater financial strength and lower cost structures which may allow them to undercut our price. They also have the inherent advantage of access to internal corporate strategies, technology roadmaps and technical information. As a result, they may be able to bring alternative solutions to market more easily and quickly. We face competitive risks across all our businesses, including: our audio technologies compete with other providers of audio products and services, with Dolby Laboratories as the primary competitor in high-definition audio processing, which enjoys advantages in selling its digital multi-channel audio technology, having introduced such technology before we did, and having achieved mandatory standard status in product categories that we have not, including terrestrial digital TV broadcasts in the United States; our embedded image processing technologies such as Face Detection and our other products compete with other image processing software vendors such as ArcSoft, Inc. as well as internal design groups of mobile phone and digital camera manufacturers providing similar technologies by employing different approaches; our Platform Solutions face significant competition from companies that produce and market program guides as well as television schedule information in a variety of formats, including passive and interactive on-screen electronic guide services, online listings, over the top applications and against customers and potential customers who choose to build their own IPG, including both those who do and those who do not elect to license our patents; 27 our advanced video solutions compete with other CE products and home entertainment services (such as Roku, AppleTV, Amazon FireTV and Chromecast) as well as products and service offerings built by other service providers or their suppliers for consumer spending; and our competitive position is affected by the rate of adoption and incorporation of our technology by semiconductor manufacturers, assemblers, foundry, manufacturers of consumer and communication electronics, and the automotive and surveillance industry. In the future, our licensed technologies may also compete with other emerging technologies that may be less expensive and provide higher performance than our solutions. Companies with these competing technologies may also have greater resources. Technological change could render our technologies obsolete, and new, competitive technologies could emerge that achieve broad adoption and adversely affect the use of our technologies and intellectual property. Some of our current or future competitors may have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do, may enjoy greater brand recognition than we do, or may have more experience or advantages than we have in the markets in which they compete. Further, many of the consumer hardware and software products that include our technologies also include technologies developed by our competitors. As a result, we must continue to invest significant resources in product development in order to enhance our technologies and our existing products and services and introduce new high-quality technologies, products and services to meet the wide variety of such competitive pressures. Our ability to generate revenue from our business will suffer if we fail to do so successfully. We face competitive risks in the provision of entertainment offerings involving the distribution of digital content provided by third party application providers through broadband. We have previously launched access in certain of our products and services to the entertainment offerings of Amazon Prime Video, Netflix, Hulu Plus, HBO Max, Disney+, VUDU, Pandora, and others for the distribution of digital content directly to broadband-connected TiVo devices. These entertainment offerings typically involve no significant long-term commitments. We face competitive, technological and business risks in our ongoing provision of entertainments offering involving the distribution of digital content through broadband to consumer televisions with such offerings, including the availability of premium and high-definition content, as well as the speed and quality of the delivery of such content to TiVo devices. For instance, we face increased competition from a growing number of broadband-enabled devices from providers such as Roku, AppleTV, Amazon Prime Video and Chromecast that provide broadband delivered digital content directly to a consumer's television connected to such a device. Additionally, we face competition from online content providers and other PC software providers who deliver digital content directly to a consumer's personal computer, which in some cases may then be viewed on a consumer's television. If we are unable to provide a competitive entertainment offering on our own, or an equivalent offering with other third parties, the attractiveness of the TiVo service to new subscribers would be harmed as consumers increasingly look for new ways to receive and view digital content and our ability to retain and attract subscribers would be harmed. Our future success depends on our ability to establish and maintain licensing relationships with companies in related business fields, including: Pay-TV service providers; operators of entertainment content distributors, including PPV and VOD networks; CE, digital set-top hardware manufacturers, DVD hardware manufacturers and personal computer manufacturers; motion-picture studios; semiconductor and equipment manufacturers; content rights holders; retailers and advertisers; digital rights management suppliers; and internet portals and other digital distribution companies. Substantially all of our license agreements are non-exclusive, and therefore our licensees are free to enter into similar agreements with third parties, including our competitors. Our licensees may develop or pursue alternative technologies either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors. Some of our third-party license arrangements require that we license others' technologies and/or integrate our solutions with others. In addition, we rely on third parties to report usage and volume information to us. Delays, errors or omissions in this information could harm our business. If these third parties choose not to support integration efforts or delay the integration of our solutions, our business could be harmed. 28 Relationships have historically played an important role in the entertainment industries that we serve. If we fail to maintain and strengthen these relationships, these industry participants may not purchase and use our technologies or facilitate the adoption of our technologies, which will harm our results of operations and prospects and may make it more difficult for us to enter into new markets. In addition, if major industry participants form strategic relationships that exclude us, our business and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Our pursuit of acquisitions and divestures may adversely affect our business operations or stock price if we cannot successfully execute our strategies. We have made several acquisitions, domestically and internationally, and it is our current plan to continue to acquire assets, patents, technologies or companies that we believe are strategic to our future business. Acquisitions involve challenges in terms of successful integration of technologies, products, services and employees. If our growth continues, it may place a significant strain on our management team and on our operational and financial systems, procedures, and controls. Our future success will depend, in part, upon the ability of our management team to manage any growth effectively, requiring our management to: recruit, hire, and train additional personnel; implement and improve our operational and financial systems, procedures, and controls; maintain our cost structure at an appropriate level based on the royalties, revenue and cash we forecast and generate; manage multiple concurrent development projects; and manage operations in multiple time zones with different cultures and languages. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of the other acquisitions we may complete in the future, and we may not be able to incorporate any acquired services, products or technologies with our existing operations, or integrate personnel from the acquired businesses, in which case our business could be harmed. Financing for future acquisitions, may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. If we use our equity securities to fund the acquisition, it may result in significant dilution to our existing stockholders. If we identify an appropriate acquisition candidate for any of our businesses, we may not be able to negotiate the terms of the acquisition successfully, finance the acquisition or integrate the acquired business, products, service offerings, technologies or employees into our existing business and operations. Future acquisitions and divestitures may not be well-received by the investment community, which may cause the value of our stock to fall. We cannot ensure that we will be able to successfully complete any acquisition or divestiture in the future. Further, the terms of our indebtedness constrain our ability to make and finance additional acquisitions or divestitures. If we are unable to maintain a sufficient amount of content released in the DTS audio format, demand for the technologies, products, and services that we offer to consumer electronics product manufacturers may significantly decline, which would adversely impact our business and prospects. We expect to derive a significant percentage of our revenue from the technologies, products, and services that we offer to manufacturers of consumer electronics products. We believe that demand for our audio technologies in growing markets for multi-channel and/or high resolution audio, including TVs, tablets, mobile phones, video game consoles, automobiles, and soundbars, will be based on the amount, quality, and popularity of content (such as movies, TV shows, music, and games) either released in the DTS audio format or capable of being coded and played in the DTS format. In particular, our ability to penetrate the growing markets in the network-connected space depends on the presence of streaming and downloadable content released in the DTS audio format. We generally do not have contracts that require providers of streaming and downloadable content to develop and release such content in a DTS audio format. Accordingly, our revenue could decline if these providers elect not to incorporate DTS audio into their content or if they sell less content that incorporates DTS audio. In addition, we may not be successful in maintaining existing relationships or developing new relationships with other existing or new content providers. As a result, we cannot assure you that a sufficient amount of content will be released in a DTS audio format to ensure that manufacturers continue offering DTS decoders in the consumer electronics products that they sell. Demand for our HD Radio technology may be insufficient to sustain projected growth. Demand for and adoption of HD Radio technology may not be sufficient for us to continue to increase the number of customers of our HD Radio system, which include IC manufacturers, manufacturers of broadcast transmission equipment, consumer electronics products manufacturers, component manufacturers, data service providers, manufacturers of specialized and test equipment and radio broadcasters. 29 Among other things, continuing and increased consumer acceptance of HD Radio technology will depend upon: the number of radio stations broadcasting digitally using HD Radio technology; the willingness of automobile manufacturers to include HD Radio receivers in their vehicles; the willingness of manufacturers to incorporate HD Radio technology into their products; the cost and availability of HD Radio enabled products; and the marketing and pricing strategies that we employ and that are employed by our customers and retailers. Demand for HD Radio also may be impacted by declines in the automotive industry which historically has been cyclical and experienced downturns during declining economic conditions, and which is currently experiencing declines as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and related events. If demand for HD Radio technology does not recover from the decline experienced in 2020 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and related events and return to the growth trends experienced in prior years, we may experience sustained reductions in our automotive based royalties and not meet the future growth that is currently projected. If we are unable to further penetrate the streaming and downloadable content delivery markets and adapt our technologies for those markets, our royalties and ability to grow our business could be adversely impacted. Prior to the advent of streaming and downloadable content services, video and audio content was purchased and consumed primarily via optical disc-based media. The growth of the internet and network-connected device usage, along with the rapid advancement of online and mobile content delivery, has resulted in download and streaming services becoming mainstream with consumers in various parts of the world. We expect the shift away from optical disc-based media to streaming and downloadable content consumption to continue. If we fail to continue to further penetrate the streaming and downloadable content delivery market, our business could suffer. The services that provide content from the internet are not generally governed by international or national standards and are thus free to choose any media format(s) to deliver their products and services. This freedom of choice on the part of online content providers could limit our ability to grow if such content providers do not incorporate our technologies into their services, which could affect demand for our technologies. Furthermore, our inclusion in mobile and other network-connected devices may be less profitable for us than optical disc players. The online and mobile markets are characterized by intense competition, evolving industry standards and business and distribution models, disruptive software and hardware technology developments, frequent new product and service introductions, short product and service life cycles, and price sensitivity on the part of consumers, all of which may result in downward pressure on pricing. If we are unable to adequately and timely respond to the foregoing, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. The success of certain of our solutions depends on the interoperability of our technologies with consumer hardware devices. To be successful, we design certain of our solutions to interoperate effectively with a variety of consumer hardware devices, including personal computers, DVD players and recorders, Blu-ray players, digital still cameras, digital camcorders, portable media players, digital TVs, home media centers, set-top boxes, video game consoles, MP3 devices, multi-media storage devices, mobile tablets and smartphones. We depend on significant cooperation with manufacturers of these devices and the components integrated into these devices, as well as software providers that create the operating systems for such devices, to incorporate certain of our technologies into their product offerings and ensure consistent playback of encoded files. Currently, a limited number of devices are designed to support certain of our technologies. If we are unsuccessful in causing component manufacturers, device manufacturers and software providers to integrate certain of our technologies into their product offerings, those technologies may become less accessible to consumers, which would adversely affect our revenue potential. Our failure to adequately manage our increasingly complex distribution agreements, including licensing, development and engineering services, may cause unexpected delays and loss of revenue in the deployment of advanced television solutions. In connection with our deployment arrangements for TiVo products, we engage in complex licensing, development and engineering services arrangements with our marketing partners and distributors. These deployment agreements with television service providers usually provide for some or all of the following deliverables: software engineering services, solution integration services, hosting the TiVo Service, maintenance and support. In general, these contracts are long-term and complex and often rely on the timely performance of such television service provider's third-party vendors that are outside TiVo's control. The engineering services and technology we agree to provide and/or develop may be essential to the functionality of the licensed software and delivered product or such software may involve significant customization and modification for each 30 customer. We have experienced in the past, and may in the future experience , delays in delivery with television service providers as well as significant increases in expected costs of development and performance in certain instances. Additional delays could lead to additional costs and adverse accounting treatments forcing us to recognize costs earlier than expected. If we are unable to deliver the contracted-for technology, including specified customizations and modifications, and services in a timely manner or at all, then we could face penalties in the form of unreimbursed engineering development work, loss of subscriber or minimum financial commitments on the part of our partners or in extreme cases the early termination of such distribution agreements. In any such case our business would be harmed. In addition, when we enter into such deployment agreements with television service providers, we are typically required to make cost estimates based on historical experience and various other assumptions. These estimates are assessed continually during the term of the contract and revisions are reflected when the conditions become known. Using different cost estimates related to engineering services may produce materially different operating results, in addition to differences in timing and income statement classification of related expenses and revenue. An unfavorable change in estimates could result in a reduction of profit due to higher cost or the recording of a loss once such a loss becomes known to us that would be borne solely by us. We also recognize revenue for software engineering services using the percentage-of-completion method. We recognize revenue by measuring progress toward completion based on the ratio of costs incurred, principally labor, to total estimated costs of the project, an input method. If we are unable to properly measure and estimate our progress toward completion in such circumstances, we could incur unexpected additional costs, be required to recognize certain costs earlier than expected, or otherwise be required to delay recognition of revenue unexpectedly. A material inability to properly manage, estimate and perform these development and engineering services for our television service provider customers could cause us to incur unexpected losses and reduce or even eliminate any profit from these arrangements, and in such a case our business would be harmed. We make significant investments in new products and services that may not achieve technological feasibility or profitability or that may limit our growth. We have made and will continue to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing of new technologies, products and services, including audio, imaging, media, advanced semiconductor packaging, bonding, and interconnect technologies, as well as our Perceive subsidiary and its hardware and software solutions for high-performance inference at the edge. Investments in new technologies are speculative and technological feasibility may not be achieved. Commercial success depends on many factors including demand for innovative technology, availability of materials and equipment, selling price the market is willing to bear, competition and effective licensing or product sales. We may not achieve significant revenue from new product and service investments for a number of years, if at all. Moreover, new technologies, products and services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for new products and businesses may not be as high as the margins we have experienced historically or originally anticipated. For example, we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, substantial research and development expenses through our Perceive subsidiary focused on delivering edge inference solutions. We do not have prior experience as a company in the development or marketing of similar hardware or software. We will need to continue to find and hire qualified and experienced personnel to advance this new business. In addition, chip technologies such as what we are developing are subject to extensive competition and a relentless pace of innovation. These new products could be copied or functionally surpassed by other designers, manufacturers, or innovators, some of whom may have far greater financial resources than us, and who may be able to develop products with greater capabilities or lower cost. Our products and services could be susceptible to errors, defects, or unintended performance problems that could result in lost revenue, liability or delayed or limited market acceptance. We develop and offer complex solutions, which we license and otherwise provide to customers. The performance of these solutions typically involves working with sophisticated software, computing and communications systems. Due to the complexity of these products and services, and despite our quality assurance testing, the products may contain undetected defects or errors that may affect the proper use or application of such products or services by the customer. Because certain of our products and services are embedded in digital content and other software, or rely on stable transmissions, our solutions' performance could unintentionally jeopardize our customers' product performance. Because customers rely on our products and services as used in their software and applications, defects or errors in our products or services may discourage customers from purchasing our products or services. These defects or errors could also result in product liability, service level agreement claims or warranty claims. Although we attempt to reduce the risk of losses resulting from these claims through warranty disclaimers and limitation of liability clauses in our agreements, these contractual provisions may not be enforceable in every instance. Any such defects, errors, or unintended performance problems in existing or new products or services, and any inability to meet customer expectations in a timely manner, could result in loss of revenue or market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, 31 diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation, increased insurance costs and increased service costs, any of which could materially harm our business. Dependence on the cooperation of pay-TV service providers, television broadcasters, hardware manufacturers, data providers and delivery mechanisms could adversely affect our revenue. We rely on third party providers to deliver our metadata to some of the CE devices that include our UXs and IPGs. Further, our national data network provides customized and localized listings for pay-TV and licensees of our data used in third party IPGs for pay-TV. In addition, we purchase certain metadata from commercial vendors that we redistribute. The quality, accuracy and timeliness of that metadata may not continue to meet our standards or be acceptable to consumers. There can be no assurance that commercial vendors will distribute data to us without error, or at all, or that the agreements that govern some of these relationships can be maintained on favorable economic terms. Technological changes may also impede the ability to distribute metadata. Our inability to renew these existing arrangements on terms that are favorable to us, or enter into alternative arrangements that allow us to effectively transmit our metadata to CE devices, could have a material adverse effect on our CE IPG business and cause our revenue or margins to decline. We are dependent on third parties for metadata and content. We distribute, as a revenue generating activity, metadata. In the future, we may not be able to obtain this content, or may not be able to obtain it on the same terms. Such a failure to obtain the content, or obtain it on the same terms, could damage the attractiveness of our metadata offerings to our customers, or could increase the costs associated with providing our metadata offerings, and could thus cause revenue or margins to decrease. We depend on a limited number of third parties to design, manufacture, distribute and supply hardware devices upon which our TiVo software and service operate. Our TiVo software and services operate on a number of hardware products, including DVR and non-DVR STBs, produced by third-party hardware companies. If we fail to effectively manage the integration of our software and services with our hardware partners' devices, we could suffer from product recalls, poorly performing product and higher than anticipated warranty costs. We have contracted for the design, manufacture and distribution of certain TiVo-branded DVRs and non-DVRs with a third-party partner. This third-party partner does not typically enter into long-term volume commitments with the major retail distributors. We currently rely on our TiVo-branded hardware partner's relationships with major retail distributors, including Best Buy, Amazon and others, for the distribution of TiVo-enabled DVRs and non-DVR products within the United States. If one or several major retail partners were to discontinue selling TiVo-enabled products, the volume of TiVo-enabled DVRs and non-DVRs sold to consumers could decrease, which could harm TiVos service business. We also depend on a third-party partner for certain TiVo-branded hardware devices that are sold through the TiVo website. If this third-party partner fails to perform its obligations, we may be unable to find alternative suppliers or deliver our products and services sold through the TiVo website in a timely manner or with the features and functionality customers expect. In addition, our third-party partner may depend on sole suppliers for key components and services in order to manufacture DVRs and non-DVR STBs which run our software, and they may be subject to risks of supply shortages and unexpected cost increases. Additionally, certain features and functionalities of our TiVo service and DVRs depend on third-party components and technologies. If TiVo or our third-party partner is unable to purchase or license such third-party components or technologies, we may not be able to offer certain related features and functionalities to our customers. In such a case, the desirability of our products to our customers could be reduced, thus harming our business. We also rely on third parties to whom we outsource supply-chain activities related to inventory warehousing, order fulfillment, distribution and other direct sales logistics to provide cost-effective and efficient supply chain services. We cannot be sure that these parties will perform their obligations as expected or that any revenue, cost savings or other benefits will be derived from the efforts of these parties. If one or several of our third-party supply chain partners were to discontinue service to us, our ability to fulfill sales orders through the TiVo website and distribute inventory timely, cost-effectively, or at all, may be delayed or prevented, which could harm our business. Any of these events could require us to undertake unforeseen additional responsibilities or devote additional resources to commercialize our TiVo service. Any of these outcomes could harm our ability to compete effectively and achieve increased market acceptance and brand recognition. We maintain inventories of TiVo-branded products based on our demand forecast, which may be incorrect and lead excess or insufficient inventory. In connection with our sales of TiVo-branded products through the TiVo website, we maintain an inventory of certain DVR and non-DVR products based on our demand forecast. Due to the seasonality in our business and the nature of long-lead time 32 product development and manufacturing cycles, we make demand forecasts for these products well in advance of our peak selling periods. As such, we are subject to risks in managing the inventory needs of our business during the year, including estimating the appropriate quantity and mix of demand across our older and newer DVR and non-DVR products. Should actual market conditions differ from our estimates, our future results of operations could be materially affected. Excess purchase commitments as a result of changes in our sales forecast may require us to record a loss. Qualifying, certifying and supporting our technologies, products and services is time-consuming and expensive. We devote significant time and resources to qualify and support our software products on various personal computer, CE and mobile platforms, including operating systems from Apple, Google and Microsoft. In addition, we maintain high-quality standards for products that incorporate our technologies and products through a quality control certification process. To the extent that any previously qualified, certified and/or supported platform or product is modified or upgraded, or we need to qualify, certify or support a new platform or product, we could be required to expend additional engineering time and resources, which could add significantly to our development expenses and adversely affect our operating results. We are exposed to the risks related to international sales and operations. We derive a large portion of our total revenue from operations outside of the United States. Therefore, we face exposure to risks of operating in many foreign countries, including: difficulties and costs associated with complying with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; unexpected changes in political or regulatory environments; differing employment practices, labor compliance and costs associated with a global workforce; earnings and cash flows that may be subject to tax withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs; exchange controls or other restrictions; restrictions on, or difficulties and costs associated with, the repatriation of cash from foreign countries to the United States; political and economic instability and trade conflict; import and export restrictions and other trade barriers; difficulties in maintaining overseas subsidiaries and international operations; difficulties in obtaining approval for significant transactions; and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Any one or more of the above factors could adversely affect our international operations and could significantly affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The results of our operations will be dependent to a large extent upon the global economy. Geopolitical factors such as terrorist activities, armed conflict or global health conditions that adversely affect the global economy may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We are also subject to risks associated with compliance with applicable anti-corruption laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), which generally prohibits companies and their employees and intermediaries from making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining an advantage or benefits, and requires public companies to maintain accurate books and records and a system of internal accounting controls. Under these laws, companies may be held liable for actions taken by directors, officers, employees, agents, or other partners or representatives. If we or our intermediaries fail to comply with the requirements of the FCPA or similar laws, governmental authorities could seek to impose civil and criminal fines and penalties which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, our business could be materially adversely affected if foreign markets do not continue to develop, if we do not receive additional orders to supply our technologies, products or services for use by international pay TV service providers, CE and STB manufacturers, PPV/VOD providers and others or if regulations governing our international businesses change. Any changes to the statutes or the regulations with respect to export of encryption technologies could require us to redesign our products or technologies or prevent us from selling and exporting our products and licensing our technologies internationally. Further deterioration of trade relations between the United States and China, other trade conflicts and barriers, economic sanctions, and national security protection policies could limit or prevent existing or potential customers from doing business with us. The increased trade conflicts between the United States and its major trading partners in recent years, evidenced by trade restrictions such as tariffs, taxes, export controls, economic sanctions, and enhanced policies designed to protect national security, have had and may continue to have adverse impact on our revenue if such policies continue. In particular, our 33 business and sales activities have been impacted due to the increase in trade conflicts between the United States and China. Further United States government actions to protect domestic economic and security interests could lead to further restrictions. Moreover, growing trade conflicts and uncertainties may lead to decreased use of foreign-owned technologies in China and other countries, due to efforts by foreign governments and enterprises to find alternative sources of supply, to develop proprietary domestic technologies, and otherwise to reduce reliance on foreign technology sources. Any such trends could have a material adverse impact on our revenue. Our systems, networks and online business activities are subject to cybersecurity and stability risks, information technology system failures, and security breaches. Despite our provisions for system redundancy and the implementation of security measures within our internal and external information technology and networking systems, our information technology systems may be subject to security breaches, unauthorized access (malicious or accidental), misuse of information by authorized users, data leaks or unintentional exposure of information, failed processes or other bugs, loss of data, damages from computer viruses or malware, natural disasters, terrorism, telecommunication failures or disruption of service. In addition, our online business activities depend on the ability to store and transmit confidential information and licensed intellectual property securely on our systems, third party systems and over private, hybrid and public networks. Any compromise of our ability to store or transmit such information and data securely or reliably, and any costs associated with preventing or eliminating such problems, could harm our business. Our storage and online transmissions and business activities are subject to a number of security and stability risks, including: our own or licensed encryption and authentication technology, or access or security procedures, may be compromised, breached or otherwise be insufficient to ensure the security of customer information or intellectual property; we could experience unauthorized access, computer viruses, system interference or destruction, denial of service attacks and other disruptive problems, whether intentional or accidental, that may inhibit or prevent access to our websites and infrastructure or use of our products and services, or cause customer information or other sensitive information to be disclosed to a perpetrator, others or the general public; someone could circumvent our security measures and misappropriate our, our business relations or our customers' proprietary information or content, interrupt operations, or jeopardize our licensing arrangements, many of which are contingent on our sustaining appropriate security protections; our computer systems could fail and lead to service interruptions or downtime for television or other guidance systems, or websites, which may include e-commerce websites; we could inadvertently disclose customer information; or we may need to grow, reconfigure or relocate our data centers in response to changing business needs, which may be costly and lead to unplanned disruptions of service. The occurrence of any of these or similar events could damage our business, hurt our ability to distribute products and services and collect revenue, threaten the proprietary or confidential nature of our technology, harm our reputation, increase the costs of our ongoing cybersecurity protections and enhancements, and expose us to litigation and other liabilities. Because some of our technologies and businesses are intended to inhibit use of or restrict access to our customers' intellectual property, we may become the target of hackers or other persons whose use of or access to our customers' intellectual property is affected by our technologies. Also, hackers may, for financial gain or other motives, seek to infiltrate or damage our systems, or obtain sensitive business information or customer information. We also may be exposed to customer claims, or other liability, in connection with any security breach or inadvertent disclosure. We may be required to expend significant capital or other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches, hacker attacks or system malfunctions or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches, attacks or failures. For example, we utilize SolarWinds for network device management. SolarWinds announced in December 2020 that its system was infected with malicious software during 2020, which might have impacted its customers. We implemented software patches and other security measures recommended by SolarWinds and other security experts in connection with this matter. While we do not believe we were targeted by malicious actors through the SolarWinds system, and we found no evidence that any of our information was exfiltrated from our systems, there is no guarantee that future hacks and attacks on the network will be unsuccessful or resolved without damage to us or our customers. Our product and service offerings rely on a variety of systems, networks and databases, many of which are maintained by us at our data centers or third-party data centers (e.g., cloud services). We do not have complete redundancy for all of our systems, and we do not maintain real-time back-up of our data, so in the event of significant system disruption, particularly during peak periods, we could experience loss of data processing capabilities, which could prevent us from providing our products and services to our customers for an uncertain amount of time, cause us to lose customers as a result of such breaches, and could harm our operating results through loss of revenue and increased costs to remediate such cybersecurity incidents. Notwithstanding our efforts to protect against down time for products and services, we do occasionally experience unplanned outages or technical difficulties. In order to provide products and services, we must protect the security of our systems, networks, databases and software. 34 To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in inappropriate disclosure of our confidential information, we may incur liability or additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches. Risks Related to Financial Matters The nature of our business requires the application of complex accounting principles. Significant changes in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) could materially affect our financial position and results of operations. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the FASB) modifies the accounting standards applicable to our financial statements, which could materially affect our financial position or results of operations. For example, in February 2016, the FASB issued an amended accounting standard for leases, Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). On January 1, 2019, Xperi and TiVo each adopted Topic 842. As a result of adopting Topic 842, we recognized combined present value of existing minimum lease payments as lease liabilities of $99.5 million and corresponding right-of-use assets of $85.5 million as of January 1, 2019. We have significant indebtedness which could adversely affect our financial position. As of December 31, 2020, we had $873.8 million of total debt outstanding under our 2020 Term Loan B Facility. Our 2020 Term Loan B Facility is guaranteed by us and our wholly-owned material domestic subsidiaries and is secured by substantially all of our and the subsidiary guarantors' assets. Our indebtedness may: limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; limit our ability to use our cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments; limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. Our variable rate indebtedness may expose us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt costs to increase significantly. As of December 31, 2020, we had $873.8 million of outstanding indebtedness that was subject to floating interest rates. Changes in economic conditions outside of our control could result in higher interest rates, thereby increasing our interest expense and reducing the funds available for capital investment, operations or other purposes. At December 31, 2020, a 1% increase in the effective interest rate on our outstanding debt throughout a one-year period would result in an annual increase in our interest expense of approximately $8.7 million. Any significant increase in our interest expense could negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows and also our ability to pay dividends in the future. If the U.S. Federal Reserve raises its benchmark interest rate, any increases would likely impact the borrowing rate on our outstanding indebtedness and increase our interest expense. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our debt obligations. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness when due. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to timely fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of cash flows and capital resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our Credit Agreement restricts our ability to dispose of assets, use the proceeds from any disposition of assets and refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to maximize the proceeds that we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. 35 Repayment of debt is dependent on cash flow generated by our subsidiaries and their respective subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries own a significant portion of our assets and conduct substantially all of our operations. Each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. Additionally, distributions from our non-U.S. subsidiaries may be subject to foreign withholding taxes and would be subject to U.S. federal and state income tax which could reduce the net cash available for principal and interest payments. We utilize non-GAAP reporting in our quarterly earnings press releases. As part of our quarterly earnings press releases, we publish measures compiled in accordance with GAAP as well as non-GAAP financial measures, along with a reconciliation between the GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. The reconciling items adjust amounts reported in accordance with GAAP for certain items which are described in detail in each such quarterly earnings press release. We believe that our non-GAAP financial measures are meaningful to investors when analyzing our results of operations as this is how our business is managed. The market price of our stock may fluctuate based on future non-GAAP results if investors base their investment decisions on such non-GAAP financial measures. If we decide to alter or curtail the use of non-GAAP financial measures in our quarterly earnings press releases, the market price of our stock could be adversely affected if investors analyze our performance in a different manner. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which could increase our operating costs and affect our ability to operate our business. We have a complex business that is international in scope. Ensuring that we have adequate internal