Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates - Revenue Recognition. As a result, the effects of these terms may cause our aggregate annual revenue to fluctuate significantly or to grow less rapidly than annual growth in the applicable end market. Additionally, our customers may fail to pay, delay payment of, or underpay what they owe to us under our IP license agreements, which may in turn require us to enforce our contractual rights through legal proceedings, resulting in payment amounts and timing different than expected based on the terms of our license agreements. This also may cause our revenue and cash flows to fluctuate on a quarter-to-quarter or year-over-year basis. 14 Some of our IP license agreements may convert to fully paid-up licenses at the expiration of their terms, or upon the occurrence of certain events, and in such event we will not receive fees thereafter. We have entered and may continue to enter into semiconductor IP license agreements that automatically convert to fully paid-up licenses upon expiration of a specified term or upon the occurrence of certain events. We may not receive further fees from customers for any licensed technology under those agreements if they convert to fully paid-up licenses because such customers will be entitled to continue using some, if not all, of the relevant IP or technology under the terms of the license agreements without further payment, even if relevant patents or technologies are still in effect. If we cannot find another source of fees to replace the fees from these license agreements converting to fully paid-up licenses, our results of operations following such conversion would be materially adversely affected. The long-term success of our business is partially dependent on a royalty-based business model, which is inherently risky. The long-term success of our business is partially dependent on royalties paid to us by customers. Fees under our licenses may be based upon, among other things, the number of subscribers for Pay-TV, a per-unit sold basis, or a fixed quarterly or annual amount. We are dependent upon our ability to structure, negotiate, and enforce agreements for the determination and payment of such fees, as well as upon our customers compliance with their agreements. We face risks inherent in a license-based business model, many of which are outside of our control, such as the following: the number of subscribers our Pay-TV customers have; the rate of adoption and incorporation of our technology by semiconductor manufacturers, assemblers, foundries, and manufacturers of consumer and communication electronics; the demand for products that incorporate our licensed technology; the cyclicality of supply and demand for products using our licensed technology; the impact of economic downturns; and the impact of poor financial performance of our customers. A portion of our revenue and cash flow is dependent upon our customers sales and other factors that are beyond our control or are difficult to forecast. A portion of our revenue is dependent on sales by our customers that are outside our control and that could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, including global, regional and/or country-specific economic conditions and/or public health concerns, outbreaks or pandemics, country-specific natural disasters, hostilities, or armed conflicts impacting licensee manufacturing and sales, demand and buying patterns of end users, which are often driven by replacement and innovation cycles, the service life of products incorporating our technologies, competition for our customers products, supply chain disruptions, and any decline in the sale prices our customers receive for their covered products and services. The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast and could adversely affect both our quarterly and annual operating results and financial condition. We depend on our customers to continue paying their obligations under their license agreements to provide us cash flow, and our customers may delay, refuse to or be unable to make payments to us due to financial difficulties or otherwise. Most of our customers sign multi-year agreements with us providing for periodic payments through the term of the agreement. As such, we are dependent upon our customers to make timely payments to provide us with our cash flows. A number of our customers may face severe financial difficulties from time to time, which may result in their inability to make payments to us in a timely manner, or at all. In addition, we have had a history of, and we may in the future experience, customers that delay or refuse to make payments owed to us under IP license or settlement agreements, which may result in us filing lawsuits to enforce our rights. For example, in August and October of 2023, our affiliates filed complaints against X Corporation in the California Superior Court for Santa Clara County and against Shaw Cablesystems G.P. and Shaw Satellite G.P. (together Shaw) in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, respectively, each alleging breach of contract for failure to pay royalties under license agreements. Such lawsuits can require us to devote significant time and resources to enforce our rights. Our customers may also merge with or may shift the manufacture of licensed products to companies that are not currently customers of our technology. This could make the collection process complex, difficult and costly, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 15 It is difficult for us to verify royalty amounts owed to us under our IP license agreements, and this may cause us to lose revenue. The terms of our IP license agreements often require our customers to report on the number of subscribers or unit sales on a periodic basis. However, we may have difficulty independently determining whether our customers are reporting such data accurately. In addition, although our license terms generally give us the right to audit books and records of our customers to verify this information, audits can be expensive, time consuming, potentially detrimental to our ongoing business relationships with our customers and, in some cases, may not be cost justified based on our understanding of our customers businesses. We face competitive risks in the provision of IP licenses to the industries that we serve, including the entertainment industry and electronic industries. Due to the exclusionary nature of patent rights, we do not compete, in a traditional sense, with other patent holders for patent licensing relationships. Other patent holders do not have the same rights to the inventions and technologies encompassed by our patent portfolio. However, our future success depends on our ability to establish and maintain licensing relationships with companies in the industries that we currently serve and may enter in the future, including Pay-TV service providers, consumer electronics manufacturers, semiconductor and equipment manufacturers, and the entertainment and electronics businesses. Our pursuit of acquisitions and divestures may adversely affect our business operations or stock price if we cannot successfully execute our strategies. We have made several acquisitions and it is our current plan to continue to acquire assets, patents or companies that we believe are strategic to our future business. Acquisitions involve challenges in terms of successful integration of IP, technologies, and employees. Our future success will depend, in part, upon the ability of our management team to manage any growth effectively, requiring our management to: recruit, hire, and train additional personnel; implement and improve our operational and financial systems, procedures, and controls; maintain our cost structure at an appropriate level based on the revenue and cash we forecast and generate; manage multiple concurrent IP development projects; and manage operations in multiple time zones with different cultures and languages. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of the other acquisitions we may complete in the future, and we may not be able to incorporate any acquired IP or technologies with our existing operations, or integrate personnel, systems, processes and operations from the acquired businesses, in which case our business could be harmed. Financing for future acquisitions may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. If we use our equity securities to fund the acquisition, it may result in significant dilution to our existing stockholders. If we identify an appropriate acquisition candidate for any of our businesses, we may not be able to negotiate the terms of the acquisition successfully, finance the acquisition or integrate the acquired technologies or employees into our existing business and operations. Future acquisitions and divestitures may not be well-received by the investment community, which may cause the value of our stock to fall. We cannot ensure that we will be able to successfully complete any acquisition or divestiture in the future. Further, the terms of our indebtedness constrain our ability to make and finance additional acquisitions or divestitures. We are exposed to the risks related to international sales and operations. We derive a portion of our total revenue from operations outside of the United States. Therefore, we face exposure to risks of operating in many foreign countries, including: difficulties and costs associated with complying with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties, regulations and compliance requirements; unexpected changes in political or regulatory environments; earnings and cash flows that may be subject to tax withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs; 16 exchange controls or other restrictions; political and economic instability and trade conflict; import and export restrictions and other trade barriers; difficulties in maintaining overseas subsidiaries; difficulties in obtaining approval for significant transactions; and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Any one or more of the above factors could adversely affect our international operations and could significantly affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The results of our operations will be dependent to a large extent upon the global economy. Geopolitical factors such as terrorist activities, armed conflict, global health conditions, outbreaks or pandemics that adversely affect the global economy may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We are also subject to risks associated with compliance with applicable anti-corruption laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), which generally prohibits companies and their employees and intermediaries from making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining an advantage or benefits, and requires public companies to maintain accurate books and records and a system of internal accounting controls. Under these laws, companies may be held liable for actions taken by directors, officers, employees, agents, or other partners or representatives. If we or our intermediaries fail to comply with the requirements of the FCPA or similar laws, governmental authorities could commence an investigation or seek to impose civil and criminal fines and penalties which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our systems, networks and business activities and those of third parties that we utilize in our operations are subject to cybersecurity and stability risks, including information technology system failures, and security breaches. Despite our provisions for system redundancy and the implementation and integration of security and risk management measures within our internal and external information technology and networking systems, our information technology systems and those of third parties that we utilize in our operations may be subject to security breaches, unauthorized access (malicious or accidental), misuse of information by authorized users, data leaks or unintentional exposure of information, failed processes or other bugs, loss of data, damages from computer viruses or malware, natural disasters, terrorism, telecommunication failures or disruption of service. In addition, our business activities depend on the ability to store and transmit confidential or proprietary information and data securely on our systems and third-party systems and over private, and public networks. Any compromise of our ability to store or transmit such information and data securely or reliably, and any costs associated with preventing, assessing or eliminating such problems, could harm our business. Our activities are subject to a number of cybersecurity and stability risks: our own or licensed encryption and authentication technology, or access or security procedures, may be compromised, breached or otherwise be insufficient to ensure the security of confidential or proprietary information or data, including customer information; we could experience damage from unauthorized access, computer viruses, ransomware, system interference or destruction, denial of service attacks and other disruptive problems, whether intentional or accidental, that may inhibit or prevent access to our websites and infrastructure, or cause confidential or proprietary information to be disclosed to a perpetrator, others or the general public; hackers could circumvent our integrated risk management processes and security measures and misappropriate our information, or our customers proprietary information or content, interrupt operations, or jeopardize our licensing arrangements, many of which are contingent on our sustaining appropriate security protections; or we could inadvertently disclose confidential or proprietary information. 17 Each of the foregoing risks also applies to the computer systems of third parties that we rely upon in our operations, including providers of cloud storage and services. The occurrence of any of these or similar events could damage our business, hurt our ability to license IP and collect revenue, threaten the proprietary or confidential nature of our technology, harm our reputation, increase the costs of our ongoing cybersecurity monitoring, protections and enhancements, require us to incur significant expenses to evaluate, address, remediate or resolve such issues and expose us to litigation and other liabilities. Because some of our technologies are intended to inhibit use of or restrict access to our customers IP, we may become the target of hackers or other persons whose use of, or access to, our customers IP is affected by our technologies. Also, hackers may, for financial gain or other motives, seek to infiltrate or damage our systems, or obtain sensitive business information or customer information from our systems. Further, the use of artificial intelligence by cybercriminals may increase the frequency and severity of cybersecurity attacks against us or our third-party vendors and clients. We also may be exposed to customer claims, or other liability, in connection with any security breach or inadvertent disclosure. We may be required to expend significant capital or other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches, hacker attacks or system malfunctions or to alleviate and remediate problems caused by such breaches, attacks or failures. If we lose any of our key personnel or are unable to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, we may not be able to execute our business strategy effectively. Our success depends, in large part, on the continued contributions of our key management, IP, sales, marketing, legal and finance personnel, many of whom are highly skilled and would be difficult to replace. None of our senior management or key sales personnel are bound by written employment contracts that require them to remain with us for a specified period. In addition, we do not currently maintain key-person life insurance covering our key personnel or have restrictions on their post-employment ability to solicit our employees, contractors or customers if key personnel voluntarily terminate their employment. The loss of any of our senior management or other key personnel could harm our ability to implement our business strategy and respond to the rapidly changing market conditions in which we operate. Our future success will depend to a significant extent on the ability of these executives to effectively drive execution of our business strategy, and on the ability of our management team to work together effectively. Our success also depends on our ability to attract, train and retain highly skilled managerial, sales, marketing, legal and finance personnel and on the abilities of new personnel to function effectively, both individually and as a group. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, particularly in the technology industry in which we operate, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. If we fail to attract and retain qualified employees, including internationally, our ability to grow our business could be harmed. In order to attract and retain personnel in a competitive marketplace, we believe that we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash and equity-based compensation. Some of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel may be able to offer more attractive terms of employment to potential candidates. Volatility in our stock price may from time to time adversely affect our ability to recruit or retain employees. Risks Related to Financial Matters We have significant indebtedness which could adversely affect our financial position. As of December 31, 2023, we had $601.3 million of total debt outstanding under our Refinanced Term B Loans. Our Refinanced Term B Loans are guaranteed by us and our wholly-owned material domestic subsidiaries and are secured by substantially all of our and the subsidiary guarantors assets. Our indebtedness may: limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; limit our ability to use our cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments; limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; and increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. 18 Our variable rate indebtedness may expose us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt costs to increase significantly. As of December 31, 2023, we had $601.3 million of outstanding indebtedness that is subject to floating interest rates. Changes in economic conditions outside of our control could result in higher interest rates, thereby increasing our interest expense and reducing the funds available for capital investment, operations or other purposes. At December 31, 2023, a 1% increase in the effective interest rate on our outstanding debt throughout a one-year period would result in an annual increase in our interest expense of approximately $5.7 million. Any significant increase in our interest expense could negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows and also our ability to pay dividends in the future. If the U.S. Federal Reserve raises its benchmark interest rate through one or more rate hikes, the increases would likely impact the borrowing rate on our outstanding indebtedness and increase our interest expense. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our debt obligations. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness when due. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to timely fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of cash flows and capital resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our credit agreement restricts our ability to dispose of assets, use the proceeds from any disposition of assets and refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to maximize the proceeds that we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Repayment of debt is dependent on cash flow generated by our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries own a significant portion of our assets and conduct substantially all of our operations. Each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. Additionally, distributions from our non-U.S. subsidiaries may be subject to foreign withholding taxes and would be subject to U.S. federal and state income tax which could reduce the net cash available for principal and interest payments. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which could increase our operating costs and affect our ability to operate our business. Ensuring that we have adequate internal