ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (the Quarterly Report). Forward Looking Information This Quarterly Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions that, if they never materialize or prove incorrect, could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. The statements contained in this Quarterly Report that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Forward-looking statements are often identified by the use of words such as, but not limited to, anticipate, believe, can, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, look, may, might, plan, project, seek, should, strategy, target, will, would, and similar expressions or variations intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management based on information currently available to management. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other important factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified below and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors included under Part II, Item 1A below. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. Company Overview Yelp connects people with great local businesses by bringing word of mouth online and providing a platform for businesses and consumers to engage and transact. Our platform provides value to consumers and businesses alike by connecting consumers with local businesses at the critical moment when they are deciding where to spend their money. Each day, millions of consumers use our platform to find and interact with local businesses, which in turn use our free and paid services to help them engage with consumers. The Yelp Platform, which allows consumers and businesses to transact directly on Yelp, provides consumers with a continuous experience from discovery to completion of transactions and local businesses with an additional point of consumer engagement. Our success is primarily the result of significant investment in our communities, employees, content, brand and technology. We believe that continued investment in our business provides our largest opportunity for future growth and plan to continue to invest for long-term growth in our key strategies: Accelerate Network Effect. We plan to invest in marketing and product development aimed at both attracting more, and increasing the usage of, consumers as we look to leverage our brand and benefit from accelerating network dynamics in Yelp communities. For example, in February 2015, we acquired Eat24Hours.com, Inc., a leading web and app-based food ordering service (Eat24), which we believe will drive daily engagement in the key restaurant vertical. We believe that expanding our content will also attract new consumers as well as increase the number of visits and searches per user, and so will continue to expand our community engagement efforts and explore new ways to enable contributors to share content. Enhance Monetization. While our core local advertising business in the United States has a significant and growing base of revenue, we have invested, and will continue to invest, in several initiatives to enhance our monetization opportunities. One such initiative has been, and will continue to be, to aggressively grow our sales force in order to reach more businesses. We will also continue expanding the Yelp Platform, business owner tools and other partnerships to encourage businesses to advertise on our platform. For example, in the first quarter of 2015, we added the ability for consumers to book a golf tee time, send flowers, book bottle service and schedule legal consultations. Our overall strategy is to invest for long-term growth. During the remainder of 2015, we expect to continue to invest heavily in our sales and marketing efforts to grow domestically and internationally, and to continue the integration of Eat24. As of March 31, 2015, we had 3,121 employees, which represents an increase of 45% compared to March 31, 2014. Key Metrics We regularly review a number of metrics, including the following key metrics, to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends in our business, prepare financial projections and make strategic decisions. 16 Reviews Number of reviews represents the cumulative number of reviews submitted to Yelp since inception, as of the period end, including reviews that are not recommended or that have been removed from our platform. In addition to the text of the review, each review includes a rating of one to five stars. We include reviews that are not recommended and that have been removed because all of them are either currently accessible on our platform or were accessible at some point in time, providing information that may be useful for users to evaluate businesses and individual reviewers. Because our automated recommendation software continually reassesses which reviews to recommend based on new information, the recommended or not recommended status of reviews may change over time. Reviews that are not recommended or that have been removed do not factor into a businesss overall star rating. By clicking on a link on a reviewed businesss page on our website, users can access the reviews that are not recommended for the business, as well as the star rating and other information about reviews that were removed for violation of our terms of service. As of March 31, 2015, approximately 72.0 million reviews were available on business profile pages, including approximately 17.1 million reviews that were not recommended, after accounting for 5.3 million reviews that had been removed from our platform, either by us for violation of our terms of service or by the users who contributed them. The following table presents the number of cumulative reviews as of the dates presented: As of March 31, 2015 2014 (in thousands) Reviews 77,346 56,905 Desktop Unique Visitors We define unique visitors as the average number of monthly unique visitors over a given three-month period. We define monthly unique visitors as the sum of (i) the number of users, as measured by Google Analytics, who have visited our mobile-optimized website at least once in a given month and (ii) the number of users who have visited our non-mobile optimized website (desktop unique visitors) at least once in a given month. Unique visitors do not include users who access our platform solely through our mobile app. Google Analytics, a product from Google Inc. that provides digital marketing intelligence, measures users based on unique cookie identifiers. Because the number of unique visitors is therefore based on unique cookies, an individual who accesses our website from multiple devices, either desktop or through a mobile device, with different cookies may be counted as multiple unique visitors, and multiple individuals who access our website from a shared device with a single cookie may be counted as a single unique visitor. Of the approximately 142.5 million unique visitors for the quarter ended March 31, 2015, approximately 79.5 million, or 56%, were desktop unique visitors, compared with approximately 82.2 million, or 62%, desktop unique visitors out of 132.5 million unique visitors for the quarter ended March 31, 2014. We anticipate that use of our mobile platform will be the driver of our growth for the foreseeable future and that usage of our non-mobile optimized website through desktop computers will continue to decline worldwide. Accordingly, going forward, we do not plan to disclose total unique visitors and will instead provide a breakout of desktop unique visitors and mobile unique visitors (as discussed in more detail below) to provide greater visibility into our business and the drivers of our growth. The following table presents our desktop unique visitors for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 (in thousands) Desktop Unique Visitors 79,543 82,211 Mobile Unique Visitors We define mobile unique visitors as the average number of monthly mobile unique visitors over a given three-month period. We define monthly mobile unique visitors to be the sum of (i) the number of users who have visited our mobile-optimized website at least once in a given month and (ii) the number of unique mobile devices using our mobile app in a given month. Under this method of calculation, an individual who accesses both our mobile-optimized website and our mobile app, or accesses either our mobile-optimized website or our mobile app from multiple mobile devices, will be counted as multiple mobile unique visitors. Multiple individuals who access either our mobile-optimized website or mobile app from a shared device will be counted as a single mobile unique visitor. The following table presents our mobile unique visitors for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 (in thousands) Mobile Unique Visitors 78,962 61,190 Of the mobile unique visitors for the quarter ended March 31, 2015, approximately 16.0 million were unique mobile devices using our mobile app, compared to 10.9 million in the quarter ended March 31, 2014. 17 Claimed Local Business Locations The number of claimed local business locations represents the cumulative number of business locations that have been claimed on Yelp worldwide since 2008, as of a given date. We define a claimed local business location as each business address for which a business representative visits our website and claims the free business listing page for the business located at that address. The following table presents the number of cumulative claimed local business locations as of the dates presented: As of March 31, 2015 2014 (in thousands) Claimed Local Business Locations 2,193 1,623 Local Advertising Accounts Local advertising accounts comprise all local business accounts from which we recognize revenue in a given three-month period, excluding local business accounts from which we recognize Yelp Deals revenue only. The following table presents the number of local advertising accounts during the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 (in thousands) Local Advertising Accounts 90 63 Non-GAAP Financial Measures To provide investors with additional information regarding our financial results, we have disclosed in this Quarterly Report adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income, which are non-GAAP financial measures. We have provided a reconciliation below of both adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income to net loss, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure in each case. We have included adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income because they are key measures used by our management and board of directors to understand and evaluate our operating performance and trends, to prepare and approve our annual budget and to develop short- and long-term operational plans. In particular, the exclusion of certain expenses in calculating adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income can provide a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons of our core business. Accordingly, we believe that adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income provide useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and board of directors. Adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income have limitations as analytical tools, and you should not consider them in isolation or as substitutes for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. In particular, adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income should not be viewed as a substitute for, or superior to, net loss prepared in accordance with GAAP as a measure of profitability or liquidity. Some of these limitations are: although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future, and adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income do not reflect cash capital expenditure requirements for such replacements or for new capital expenditure requirements; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs; adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income do not consider the potentially dilutive impact of equity-based compensation; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect tax payments that may represent a reduction in cash available to us; and other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income differently, which reduces their usefulness as comparative measures. Because of these limitations, you should consider adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income alongside other financial performance measures, including various cash flow metrics, net loss and our other GAAP results. The tables below present reconciliations of adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income to net loss for each of the periods indicated: Adjusted EBITDA Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 (in thousands) Reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to GAAP Net Loss: Net loss $ (1,284 ) $ (2,635 ) Benefit from income taxes (2,403 ) (1,971 ) Other (income) expense, net (562 ) 2 Depreciation and amortization 6,895 3,661 Stock-based compensation 13,671 9,456 Adjusted EBITDA $ 16,317 $ 8,513 18 Non-GAAP Net Income Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 (in thousands) Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Net Income to GAAP Net Loss: Net loss $ (1,284 ) $ (2,635 ) Stock-based compensation 13,671 9,456 Amortization of intangible assets 1,231 626 Tax effect of stock-based compensation and amortization of intangibles (5,716 ) (3,860 ) Valuation allowance release (net of tax) 1,958 Non-GAAP net income $ 7,902 $ 5,545 Results of Operations The following table sets forth our results of operations for the periods presented as a percentage of net revenue for those periods (certain items may not foot due to rounding). The period-to-period comparison of financial results is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations to be anticipated for the full year 2015 or any future period. Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 (as percentage of net revenue) Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Net revenue by product: Local advertising 83 % 85 % Brand advertising 6 10 Other services 11 5 Total net revenue 100 % 100 % Costs and expenses: Cost of revenue (exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below) 7 % 7 % Sales and marketing 53 59 Product development 20 18 General and administrative 17 17 Depreciation and amortization 6 5 Total costs and expenses 104 106 Loss from operations (4 ) (6 ) Other income (expense), net Loss before income taxes (3 ) (6 ) Benefit from income taxes 2 3 Net loss (1 )% (3 )% 19 Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 Net Revenue We generate revenue from local advertising, brand advertising and other services. The following provides a description of our revenue by product: Local Advertising. We generate revenue from local advertising programs, including enhanced profile pages and performance and impression-based advertising in search results and elsewhere on our website and mobile app. We also generate local advertising revenue from our SeatMe restaurant reservation product, a monthly subscription service. Brand Advertising. We generate revenue from brand advertising through the sale of advertising solutions for national brands that want to improve their local presence in the form of display advertisements and brand sponsorships. Our national advertisers include leading brands in the automobile, financial services, logistics, consumer goods and health and fitness industries. Other Services. We generate other revenue through Eat24, partner arrangements, the sale of Yelp Deals and Gift Certificates, and monetization of remnant advertising inventory through third-party ad networks. Eat24 generates revenue through arrangements with restaurants in which restaurants pay a fixed fee commission on orders placed through Eat24s platform. Our fixed-fee partner arrangements include allowing third-party data providers to update business listing information on behalf of businesses. Our revenue-sharing partner arrangements provide consumers with the ability to complete food delivery transactions and make online reservations through third parties directly on Yelp. Yelp Deals allow merchants to promote themselves and offer discounted goods and services on a real-time basis to consumers directly on our website and mobile app. We earn a fee on Yelp Deals for acting as an agent in these transactions, which we record on a net basis and include in revenue upon a consumers purchase of a deal. Gift Certificates allow merchants to sell full-priced gift certificates directly to consumers through their business profile pages. We earn a fee based on the amount of the Gift Certificate sold, which we record on a net basis and include in revenue upon a consumers purchase of the Gift Certificate. 2014 to Three Months Ended 2015 % March 31, Change 2015 2014 (dollars in thousands) Net revenue by product: Local advertising $ 98,570 $ 65,195 51 % Brand advertising 6,627 7,455 (11 ) Other services 13,311 3,757 254 Total net revenue $ 118,508 $ 76,407 55 % Net revenue by product: Local advertising 83 % 85 % Brand advertising 6 10 Other services 11 5 Total net revenue 100 % 100 % Total net revenue increased $42.1 million, or 55%, in the three months ended March 31, 2015, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014. Our local advertising revenue increased $33.4 million, or 51%, primarily due to a significant increase in the number of customers purchasing local advertising plans as we expanded our sales force to reach more local businesses. Our brand advertising revenue decreased $0.8 million, or 11%, primarily due to a decrease in the number of brand advertisers. Our other services revenue increased by $9.6 million, or 254%, primarily due to revenue from Eat24, which we acquired in February 2015, as well as an increase in revenue from partnership arrangements, the sale of Yelp Deals and remnant advertising inventory. Cost of Revenue Our cost of revenue consists primarily of network costs, credit card processing fees and web hosting, as well as salaries, benefits and stock-based compensation for our infrastructure teams related to operating our website. It also includes video production expenses and creative design for brand advertising. 20 2014 to Three Months Ended 2015 % March 31, Change 2015 2014 (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 8,699 $ 5,077 71 % Percentage of net revenue 7 % 7 % In the three months ended March 31, 2015, cost of revenue increased $3.6 million, or 71%, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014. The increase was primarily attributable to an increase of $1.6 million in outside hosting and Internet service fees, which are necessary to support the increase in visitors to our website and transactions completed on our website. In addition, set up costs, including video production, for local advertising account pages increased by $0.1 million due to increased demand by local businesses for video on their business pages. Expenses related to creative design for brand and local advertising customers also increased by $0.5 million. In addition, merchant fees related to credit card transactions for local advertising increased $1.6 million. This was offset by a decrease of $0.2 million for headcount and related expenses, due to an increase in the proportion of employees dedicated to capitalized website infrastructure projects. Sales and Marketing Our sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of salaries, benefits, stock-based compensation expense, travel expense and incentive compensation expense for our sales and marketing employees. In addition, sales and marketing expenses include business acquisition marketing, community management, branding and advertising costs, as well as allocated facilities and other supporting overhead costs. Our focus to date has been on organic and viral growth driven by the community development efforts of our community management team, which is responsible for growing and fostering local communities, as well as coordinating events to raise awareness of our brand. As a result, we have incurred minimal sales and marketing expenses to acquire organic traffic to our platform. However, we have begun selectively testing advertising to consumers through various channels and plan to continue to do so during the remainder of 2015. We expect our community management costs to increase as we continue to expand to new markets and within existing markets. We expect our sales and marketing expenses to increase as we expand our domestic and international footprint, increase the number of local advertising accounts and continue to build our brand. The substantial majority of these expenses will be related to hiring sales employees and Community Managers. We expect sales and marketing expenses to increase and to be our largest expense for the foreseeable future. 2014 to Three Months Ended 2015 % March 31, Change 2015 2014 (dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 63,266 $ 45,121 40 % Percentage of net revenue 53 % 59 % In the three months ended March 31, 2015, sales and marketing expenses increased $18.1 million, or 40%, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014. The increase was primarily attributable to an increase in headcount and related expenses of $10.0 million, including an increase in stock-based compensation expense of $1.5 million, as we expanded our sales organization to take advantage of the market opportunity created by increased recognition of the value of our platform and increased use of our free online business accounts. In addition, we experienced an increase in facilities and related allocations of $4.8 million. As a result of new marketing campaigns, domestic and international marketing and advertising costs increased by $3.5 million. This was offset by a decrease in our commission expenses of $0.2 million due to a decrease in brand revenue. Product Development Our product development expenses primarily consist of salaries, benefits and stock-based compensation expense for our engineers, product management and information technology personnel. Product development expenses also include outside services and consulting, allocated facilities and other supporting overhead costs. We believe that continued investment in features, software development tools and code modification is important to attaining our strategic objectives and, as a result, we expect product development expense to increase for the foreseeable future. 2014 to Three Months Ended 2015 % March 31, Change 2015 2014 (dollars in thousands) Product development $ 23,960 $ 13,982 71 % Percentage of net revenue 20 % 18 % 21 In the three months ended March 31, 2015, product development expenses increased $10.0 million, or 71%, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014. The increase was primarily attributable to an increase in headcount and related expenses of $7.6 million, including an increase in stock-based compensation expense of $2.7 million. In addition, we experienced an increase in facilities and related expenses of $1.6 million as a result of the increase in headcount. Use of outside consultants also increased by $0.8 million as we continued to invest in adding features and functionality to our website and mobile app. General and Administrative Our general and administrative expenses primarily consist of salaries, benefits and stock-based compensation expense for our executive, finance, user operations, legal, human resources and other administrative employees. Our general and administrative expenses also include outside consulting, legal and accounting services, as well as facilities and other supporting overhead costs not allocated to other departments. We expect our general and administrative expenses to increase for the foreseeable future as we continue to expand our business. 2014 to Three Months Ended 2015 % March 31, Change 2015 2014 (dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 19,937 $ 13,170 51 % Percentage of net revenue 17 % 17 % In the three months ended March 31, 2015, general and administrative expenses increased $6.8 million, or 51%, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014. The increase was primarily attributable to an increase in headcount and related expenses of $2.6 million, including an increase in stock-based compensation expense of $0.6 million. Additionally, we invested in our systems and support for the growth of the business through the use of outside consultants, which contributed to the increase by $1.7 million. We also experienced an increase in facilities and related expenses of $0.6 million and an increase in bad debt expense of $1.9 million. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expenses primarily consist of depreciation on computer equipment, software, leasehold improvements, capitalized website and software development costs and amortization of purchased intangible assets. We expect depreciation and amortization expenses to increase for the foreseeable future as we continue to expand our technology infrastructure. 2014 to Three Months Ended 2015 % March 31, Change 2015 2014 (dollars in thousands) Depreciation and amortization $ 6,895 $ 3,661 88 % Percentage of net revenue 6 % 5 % In the three months ended March 31, 2015, depreciation and amortization expenses increased $3.2 million, or 88%, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014. The increase was primarily the result of our investments in expanding our technology infrastructure and capital assets to support our increase in headcount across the organization. Depreciation and amortization related to our fixed assets and capitalized website and software development costs increased $2.6 million. In addition, amortization related to our intangible assets increased by $0.6 million, primarily due to intangibles acquired in the Eat24 acquisition. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consists primarily of the interest income earned on our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities, gains and losses on the disposal of assets, and foreign exchange gains and losses. 22 2014 to Three Months Ended 2015 % March 31, Change 2015 2014 (dollars in thousands) Interest income $ 300 $ 34 782 % Transaction loss on foreign exchange (171 ) (49 ) 249 % Other non-operating income, net 433 13 3231 % Other income (expense), net $ 562 $ (2 ) NM* Percentage of net revenue % % *Not Meaningful In the three months ended March 31, 2015, other income (expense), net increased by $0.6 million compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014. The increase was driven primarily by an increase in interest income related to marketable securities, as well as other non-operating income from the release of cash in escrow relating to the Qype acquisition, as discussed in Note 4 to the condensed consolidated financial statements. This was offset by an increase in foreign exchange losses due to unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates during the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014. Benefit from Income Taxes Benefit from income taxes consists of federal and state income taxes in the United States and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions, deferred income taxes reflecting the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes, and the realization of net operating loss carryforwards. 2014 to 2015 % As of March 31, Change 2015 2014 (dollars in thousands) Benefit from income taxes $ 2,403 $ 1,971 22 % Percentage of net revenue 2 % 3 % For the three months ended March 31, 2015, the Company recognized a tax benefit that primarily consisted of U.S. federal, state and foreign income tax benefits and discrete benefits on year-to-date pre-tax loss, and discrete benefits related to disqualifying dispositions of incentive stock options and shares purchased under our 2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2015, we had cash and cash equivalents of $172.6 million. Cash and cash equivalents consist of both cash and money market funds. Our cash held internationally as of March 31, 2015 was $4.5 million. We did not have any outstanding bank loans or credit facilities in place as of March 31, 2015. Our investment portfolio is comprised of highly-rated marketable securities, and our investment policy limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. The policy generally requires securities to be investment grade (i.e. rated A or higher by bond rating firms) with the objective of minimizing the potential risk of principal loss. To date, we have been able to finance our operations and our acquisitions through proceeds from private and public financings, including our initial public offering in March 2012, our follow-on offering in October 2013, cash generated from operations and, to a lesser extent, cash provided by the exercise of employee stock options and purchases under our ESPP. Our future capital requirements and the adequacy of available funds will depend on many factors, including those set forth under Risk Factors in this Quarterly Report. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, together with any cash generated from operations, will be sufficient to meet our working capital requirements and anticipated purchases of property and equipment for at least the next 12 months. However, this estimate is based on a number of assumptions that may prove to be wrong and we could exhaust our available cash and cash equivalents earlier than presently anticipated. We may require or otherwise seek additional funds in the next 12 months to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new features and products or enhance existing services, improve our operating infrastructure or acquire complementary businesses and technologies, and, accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. Amounts deposited with third-party financial institutions exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and Securities Investor Protection Corporation insurance limits, as applicable. These cash and cash equivalents could be impacted if the underlying financial institutions fail or are subjected to other adverse conditions in the financial markets. To date, we have experienced no loss or lack of access to our cash and cash equivalents; however, we can provide no assurances that access to our invested cash and cash equivalents will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. 23 Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 (in thousands) Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Data: Purchases of property, equipment and software $ 10,881 $ 4,246 Depreciation and amortization 6,895 3,661 Cash flows provided by operating activities 25,635 9,323 Cash flows used in investing activities (103,715 ) (6,235 ) Cash flows provided by financing activities 4,045 6,413 Operating Activities. We generated $25.6 million of cash in operating activities in the three months ended March 31, 2015, primarily resulting from our net loss of $1.3 million, which included non-cash depreciation and amortization of $6.9 million, non-cash stock-based compensation expense of $13.7 million, and non-cash provision for doubtful accounts of $3.4 million. In addition, significant changes in our operating assets and liabilities resulted from the following: increase in accounts receivable of $2.9 million due to an increase in billings for local advertising plans, as well as the timing of payments from these customers; increase in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities of $12.0 million related to the growth in our business, increase in accrued vacation and employee-related expenses, and the timing of invoices and payments to vendors; and increase in prepaids and other assets of $6.0 million relating to the increase in prepaid licenses and deferred tax benefits. We generated $9.3 million of cash in operating activities in the three months ended March 31, 2014, primarily resulting from our net loss of $2.6 million, offset by non-cash depreciation and amortization of $3.7 million, non-cash stock-based compensation of $9.4 million, and non-cash provision for doubtful accounts of $1.2 million. In addition, operating assets and liabilities changed by $2.4 million, primarily due to the timing of collections on accounts receivable and payments to vendors during the three months ended March 31, 2014. Investing Activities. Our primary investing activities in the three months ended March 31, 2015 consisted of acquisitions, purchases of marketable securities, purchases of property and equipment to support the ongoing build out of our data centers, leasehold improvements for our headquarters in San Francisco and other locations, the purchase of technology hardware to support our growth in headcount and software to support website and mobile app development, website operations and our corporate infrastructure. Purchases of property and equipment, as well as leasehold improvements, may vary from period to period due to the timing of the expansion of our offices, operations and website and internal-use software and development. We expect to continue to invest in property and equipment, leaseholds and the development of software during the remainder of 2015. We used $103.7 million of cash in investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2015. Cash used in investing activities primarily related to the $71.5 million cash purchase price of Eat24, purchases of marketable securities of $36.1 million, an increase in expenditures related to website and internally developed software of $3.2 million, purchases of intangible data licenses of $0.3 million and purchases of property, equipment, software and leasehold improvements of $10.9 million to support our growth in the business. Cash used in investing was offset by $18.3 million of maturities of investment securities held-to-maturity. We used $6.2 million of cash in investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2014. Cash used in investing activities primarily related to an increase in expenditures related to website development of $1.6 million, purchases of property, equipment, software and leasehold improvements of $4.2 million to support our growth in the business, and an increase in restricted cash of $0.4 million associated with letters of credit in connection with leased office space. Financing Activities. During the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014, we generated $4.0 million and $6.4 million, respectively, in financing activities, primarily due to net proceeds from the issuance of common stock upon the exercise of stock options. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have any off balance sheet arrangements in 2014 or the first three months of 2015. 24 Contractual Obligations We lease various office facilities, including our corporate headquarters in San Francisco, California, under operating lease agreements that expire from 2015 to 2025. The terms of the lease agreements provide for rental payments on a graduated basis. We recognize rent expense on a straight-line basis over the lease periods. We do not have any debt or material capital lease obligations, and all of our property, equipment and software have been purchased with cash. As of March 31, 2015, we had no material long-term purchase obligations outstanding with any vendors or third parties. As of March 31, 2015, the following table summarizes our future minimum payments under non-cancelable operating leases for equipment and office facilities: Payments Due by Period Less More Than Than Total 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years 5 Years (in thousands) Operating lease obligations $ 298,798 $ 29,668 $ 99,294 $ 68,116 $ 101,720 The contractual commitment amounts in the table above are associated with agreements that are enforceable and legally binding. Obligations under contracts that we can cancel without a significant penalty are not included in the table above. As of March 31, 2015, our total liability for uncertain tax positions was $3.4 million. We are not reasonably able to estimate the timing of future cash flow related to this liability. As a result, this amount is not included in the contractual obligations table above.