Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsKey Metrics for information on how we define our key metrics. Unless otherwise stated, these metrics do not include metrics from subscription products or our business owner products. While our metrics are based on what we believe to be reasonable calculations, there are inherent challenges in measuring usage across our large user base. All of our key performance metrics, including ad clicks, average cost-per-click (CPC), our traffic metrics and active claimed local business locations, are tracked with internal company tools, which are not independently verified by any third party and have a number of limitations. For example, our app unique device metric may be affected by mobile applications that automatically contact our servers for regular updates with no discernible user action involved; this activity can cause our system to count the device associated with the app as an app unique device in a given period. Although we take steps to exclude such activity and, as a result, do not believe it has had a material impact on our reported metrics, our efforts may not successfully account for all such activity. Our web traffic metrics, which we now report based on internal measurement tools and refer to as desktop unique devices and mobile unique devices, as well as our historical web traffic metrics that were calculated based on data from Google Analytics, a digital marketing intelligence product from Google LLC (Google), are subject to similar limitations. Because our traffic metrics are tracked based on unique identifiers under both methodologies, an individual who accesses our website from multiple devices with different identifiers may be counted as multiple unique devices, and multiple individuals who access our website from a shared device with a single identifier may be counted as a single unique device. As a result, the calculations of our unique devices may not accurately reflect the number of people actually visiting our website. Our measures of traffic and other key metrics may also differ from estimates published by third parties or from similar metrics of our competitors. We are continually seeking to improve our ability to measure these key metrics, and regularly review our processes to assess potential improvements to their accuracy. From time to time, we may discover inaccuracies in our metrics or make adjustments to improve their accuracy, including adjustments that may result in the recalculation of our historical metrics. We believe that any such inaccuracies or adjustments are immaterial unless otherwise stated. Additionally, the changes to the way in which we measure our web traffic metrics have resulted in inconsistencies between new data and previously reported data. ii Table of Contents RISK FACTOR SUMMARY Our business operations are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including the risks described in the section titled Risk Factors included under Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report, that could cause our business, financial condition or operating results to be harmed, including risks regarding the following: Business and Industry adverse macroeconomic conditions and their impact on consumer behavior and advertiser spending; our ability to maintain and expand our advertiser base; our ability to execute on our strategic initiatives and the effectiveness thereof; our ability to maintain and increase traffic to and user engagement on our platform; our reliance on Internet search engines and application marketplaces; our ability to hire, retain, motivate and effectively manage well-qualified employees in a remote work environment; competition in our industry; our reliance on third-party service providers and strategic partners; our ability to generate, maintain and recommend sufficient content that consumers find relevant, helpful and reliable; our ability to maintain, protect and enhance our brand; Technology and Intellectual Property our ability to maintain the uninterrupted and proper operation of our technology and network infrastructure; actual or perceived security breaches as well as errors, vulnerabilities or defects in our software or in products of third-party providers; our use of artificial intelligence (AI) in our products and business operations; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our use of open source software; Financial and Tax Matters fluctuations in our operating results; the accuracy and reliability of our key metrics; our significant operating losses and potential inability to maintain profitability; our credit obligations; our tax liabilities; Regulatory Compliance and Legal Matters current and future disputes and assertions by others that we violate their rights; complex and evolving U.S. and foreign laws and regulations; Factors Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock the volatility of the trading price of our common stock; and provisions of Delaware law and our charter documents that could impair a takeover attempt if deemed undesirable by our Board of Directors (the Board). iii Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business. Company Overview Since Yelps founding 20 years ago, our mission has remained the same to connect consumers with great local businesses. Over that time, we have built one of the best known Internet brands in the United States. Consumers trust us for the more than 280 million ratings and reviews available on our platform of businesses across a broad range of categories. This consumer trust is the foundation of our business, from which we are able to empower other businesses to succeed. Our advertising products help businesses of all sizes reach a large audience, advertise their products and drive conversion of their services. Our performance in 2024 which included record annual revenue and profitable growth demonstrates the profitability of our broad-based local advertising platform. For a discussion of our results for the year ended December 31, 2024, see the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included under Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report. Our Long-Term Growth Opportunity is Large We believe our ability to provide value to both consumers and businesses positions us well in the large and growing local, digital advertising market in the United States. The competitive advantages we have established over two decades, together with our product-led business model and disciplined expense management, provide us with the opportunity for long-term profitable growth in this market. We have: A proven engine to generate and recommend trusted content. Our platform provides the type of reliable and useful review content that helps consumers make informed spending decisions and confidently transact with local businesses. The breadth and depth of our high-quality content is the result of our significant investments over two decades in both developing communities of users as well as providing a great consumer experience that enables and encourages consumers to share their everyday business experiences through reviews, photos, videos and other content. We have also developed industry-leading content moderation practices to maintain the quality and integrity of our content. For example, our recommendation software and other tools, including machine learning algorithms, are designed to surface the most useful and trustworthy information on our platform for consumers. This technology, together with content moderation by our User Operations team and other consumer protection efforts, helps us detect and mitigate attempts to manipulate ratings and reviews. As of December 31, 2024, approximately 76% of the reviews submitted to our platform were recommended. A strong brand and a large consumer audience. Our trusted content has attracted a large, high-intent consumer audience. This large audience reflects the strength of our brand as a leading resource for consumers to search for and discover great local businesses across categories as well as our availability across a wide range of platforms and devices. It also provides a compelling value proposition to advertisers. In addition to its size, our audience has high purchase intent and is generally affluent as of December 2024, we estimate that over 50% of our audience has annual household income of more than $100,000. A broad-based local advertising platform and sophisticated advertising technology. Our large consumer audience supports a broad-based advertising model with products designed to meet the needs of businesses of all sizes. Our portfolio of products and attribution capabilities leverage first-party data to provide advertising solutions across categories and each stage of the consumer funnel, both on and off platform. These products are backed by a scaled and extensible advertising technology platform. To establish the price of an individual ad click, we run an auction for each advertising placement, which resulted in an average of nearly 18 million auctions per day in 2024. The bidding algorithms used in our auction system are designed to prioritize spending advertiser budgets efficiently and maximize ad clicks to optimize the value we deliver to advertisers, while our proprietary ad delivery technology is designed to determine the most relevant ads for consumers to drive fulfillment. 1 Table of Contents Our Growth and Margin Strategy We believe that the investments we made in our strategic initiatives have led our business to new highs in recent years, and see further opportunities to build upon this success and deliver even greater value to both consumers and advertisers over the long term. As a result, in 2025 we plan to invest in the areas set forth below, each of which we believe represents its own long-term opportunity and which together we believe will drive long-term sustainable and profitable growth. Revenue Growth Lead in Services. We aim to create a best-in-class Services experience for consumers and service professionals in 2025. With our robust network of service professionals, large dataset of trusted content and sophisticated matching algorithm incorporating a wide array of proprietary inputs, we believe Yelp has a strategic advantage in providing an exceptional Services experience. We plan to leverage AI to further reduce friction across the hiring experience, while improving the quality of leads and conversations for services professionals through matching and other improvements. We believe our Auto Services category which is our second largest category by revenue following our acquisition of RepairPal, Inc. (RepairPal) in November 2024 also presents a significant growth opportunity. We plan to improve Request-a-Quote for Auto Services on Yelp as well as attract more consumers to RepairPal through our search engine optimization and search engine marketing expertise. In addition, we plan to build on our product and sales efforts for multi-location Services businesses in 2024 to capture more demand from these advertisers, including by directing more projects to these businesses that have the capacity to ingest higher lead volumes. Drive advertiser value. In 2025, we are working to further optimize advertisers budgets through a portfolio of product initiatives designed to prioritize the most relevant ad content for consumers searching for local businesses, which we believe will help us continue to attract and retain new customers. We plan to further develop our advertising technology and ad products to match consumers and advertisers even more efficiently both on and off Yelp, including by providing advertisers with additional AI-powered controls and recommendations to help further refine ad targeting. We also plan to continue improving the efficiency of our performance marketing spend to acquire small and medium-sized business (SMB) advertisers. Transform the consumer experience. Our trusted content forms the basis for our business and has made Yelp a leading resource for consumers to confidently search for and discover great local businesses across categories. In 2025, we aim to continue leveraging AI to transform the consumer experience. For example, we plan to experiment with extending Yelp Assistant to additional categories beyond Home Services and making it accessible through additional entry points on our platform. We also expect to make the home feed even more personalized and dynamic by using AI to help consumers discover new and relevant businesses. To help consumers find and connect with the right businesses for their needs, we also plan to create an even more seamless and actionable search experience. Delivering Profitable Growth We believe our product-led strategy, together with our distributed workforce and disciplined expense management, have positioned us well to drive profitable growth and leverage over the long term: Retention improvements benefit our margins. Accordingly, we believe our initiatives designed to deliver more value to advertisers by improving the quality of Services leads and further optimizing advertisers budgets will also drive margin expansion over the long term. Operating on a distributed basis has allowed us to reduce our real estate footprint, which we expect to continue to benefit margin going forward. As we reduced our reliance on the Bay Area for our hiring needs, we also made significant changes to our compensation mix throughout our organization to emphasize cash over stock. As a result, we continue to expect our stock-based compensation expense as a percentage of revenue to decrease to less than 8% of revenue by the end of 2025. We also now plan to reduce stock-based compensation expense to less than 6% of revenue by the end of 2027. We remain disciplined in our allocation of resources. We plan to hold headcount approximately flat in 2025. We also plan to expand the use of AI in our business operations to drive efficiencies, reflecting our commitment to driving leverage in the business through our product-led strategy. 2 Table of Contents Our Products and Services Advertising We offer a range of free and paid advertising products to businesses of all sizes, including the products listed below, which provide the ability to deliver targeted advertising to our large and high-intent audience. As in past years, advertising accounted for the vast majority of our revenue during the year ended December 31, 2024, contributing 96% of our revenue, which was fairly consistent with the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2023. We recognize revenue from our business listing and advertising products, including advertising sold by partners, as advertising revenue. Advertising Products CPC Advertising (Yelp Ads) We allow businesses to promote themselves in sponsored search results on our platform, on the Yelp pages of businesses in the same or related categories, and other key places on our platform. Yelp Ads can also be delivered through syndication on the Yelp Ads Network, a large collection of third-party sites. We primarily sell performance-based ads, which our advertising platform matches to individual consumers through our automated auction system priced on a CPC basis. We generate a majority of our advertising revenue from the sale of CPC advertising. We also provide Services businesses with the ability to provide competing quotes for consumers using our Request-a-Quote feature and with a way for consumers to easily request a phone call from them through our Request-a-Call feature. Multi-location Ad Products We offer a range of ad products designed for multi-location advertisers, including: Showcase Ads, which showcase and feature limited-time offers, new products or promotions in relevant search results; Spotlight Ads, which highlight special offers and promotions related to seasonal or other special events on Yelp business pages in a prominent carousel directly on the Yelp app home screen; and Yelp Audiences, which extends campaign reach to our high-intent audience off platform. We also offer first-party attribution solutions: Yelp Store Visits, which provides insights on how Yelp Ads drive physical store foot traffic, and a conversion API, which allows advertisers the ability to share their marketing data with Yelp to more accurately measure the effectiveness of their advertising spend. RepairPal Network The RepairPal marketplace and partner network promote auto repair shops to consumers searching for auto repair services. Auto repair shops pay a monthly fee to be included in this certified shop network, as well as either a percentage of earnings from repair orders made by referred customers or a fixed fee per referred customer. Business Page Products Free Business Account Businesses have the ability to create a free business account and claim a Yelp page for each of their business locations. Once a business has claimed its page, it can more easily update its listing information and has the option to purchase certain page upgrade features. Upgrade Package Our most popular product after Yelp Ads is our Upgrade Package, which includes access to features such as the removal of competitor ads from the businesss Yelp page, Business Highlights, Portfolio, Yelp Connect and Logo, each as described below, among other features. Branded Profile Our Branded Profile is a multi-location product that provides businesses with access to premium features in connection with their Yelp business pages, such as the ability to update listing information and select photos to highlight on the page through a slideshow feature. Enhanced Profile In addition to providing multi-location businesses with the same premium features and support options as our Branded Profile product, our Enhanced Profile product prevents ads from other businesses from appearing on the Yelp business pages of our Enhanced Profile customers. Verified License Verified License is a badge that appears on Yelp business pages as a paid upgrade for certain eligible licensed businesses, primarily in our Home and Local Services categories. The badge indicates that we have verified the businesss trade license and confirmed it was in good standing as of a certain date, allowing businesses to distinguish themselves as licensed and helping consumers make confident decisions when selecting businesses for their projects. 3 Table of Contents Business Highlights Businesses in eligible categories can pay to highlight up to six attributes that make their business unique, such as Family Owned or Pet Friendly. Portfolio Portfolio allows businesses to showcase their work or services to prospective customers through a collection of projects. Yelp Connect Yelp Connect provides advertisers with a channel to market new offerings, such as new menu items and specials, or communicate business updates to customers. Yelp Connect posts appear in various locations on our platform, including business pages and the home feed on our mobile apps. Logo Logo provides businesses with the ability to display their logos in high-visibility locations, including prominently at the top of Yelp business pages and in search results. Nearby Jobs Nearby Jobs provides businesses with the ability to see a dynamic feed of job quote requests in their area of business. Yelp Guaranteed Yelp Guaranteed is a satisfaction guarantee program that provides limited coverage to consumers who hire a Yelp Guaranteed business through Request-a-Quote in the event something goes wrong with their projects. It is currently available for eligible businesses in select Services categories that have Request-a-Quote enabled and are using Yelp Ads. Other We generate other revenue through subscription services, licensing payments for access to Yelp data, transactions and other non-advertising arrangements. Yelp Guest Manager Yelp Guest Manager is a subscription-based suite of front-of-house management tools for restaurants, nightlife and certain other venues. These tools include online reservations, a waitlist management solution that allows consumers to check wait times and join waitlists remotely as well as through hostless kiosks, and seating and server rotation management tools. Yelp Fusion Insights (formerly Yelp Knowledge) Through partnerships with companies such as Sprinklr and Chatmeter, our Yelp Fusion Insights program offers business owners local analytics and insights through access to our historical data and other proprietary content. Our Yelp Fusion Insights partners pay us license fees for access to Yelp Fusion Insights content. Yelp Fusion Our Yelp Fusion program enables developers to build products that include our high-quality content and data. We partner with industry leaders like Apple, which makes our content available through Apple Maps and its virtual assistant Siri, as well as several auto manufacturers, including Audi AG and BMW, to make our content available in their in-dash experiences. We offer free trial access to certain basic information through our publicly available APIs as well as paid access to broader sets of content and data for consumer-facing enterprise use. We typically enter into multi-year license agreements with paying Yelp Fusion customers, with rates determined based on the type and volume of usage. Transactions We offer features and consumer-interactive tools to facilitate transactions between consumers and the local businesses they find on Yelp. These features are primarily available through partner integrations, the largest of which by both transaction volume and revenue is our partnership with Grubhub, which allows consumers to place food orders for pickup and delivery through Yelp. We recognized revenue from these sources on a net basis as transactions revenue prior to 2024. Other Partnerships Other non-advertising partner arrangements include content licensing and allowing third-party data providers to update and manage business listing information on behalf of businesses. 4 Table of Contents Sales We sell our advertising products directly through our sales force as well as online through our website and our Yelp for Business app, and indirectly through partners. Sales Teams Local Sales Our Local sales team is responsible for selling our advertising products to any businesses with fewer than 10 locations. This includes smaller mid-market businesses and franchise businesses that follow a sales process closer to that of Local than that of multi-location businesses. Local sales representatives are primarily focused on adding new customers by generating qualified sales leads through direct engagement, direct marketing campaigns and e-mails to local businesses. Revenue from direct Local sales has historically comprised the largest share of advertising revenue and was driven by growth in Local sales headcount. While it still represents nearly half of our advertising revenue, we have become less reliant on Local sales headcount to drive growth as a result of our investments in our more margin-accretive Self-serve and Multi-location channels in recent years. This has allowed us to optimize the size and compensation structure of the Local sales team accordingly. Multi-location Sales Our Multi-location sales team sells to any businesses with 10 or more locations, which consist of larger mid-market businesses, national businesses and non-location-based brand advertisers. We believe that multi-location advertising budgets, particularly in our Services categories, represent a significant growth opportunity and this channel was a focus of our strategic investments in recent years as we expanded our products and attribution capabilities to meet the needs of these advertisers. We plan to continue expanding our suite of full-funnel ad products tailored to these advertisers and attribution solutions to drive revenue growth in our Multi-location sales channel in 2025. Customer Success Our customer success teams support existing advertisers through account management and retention initiatives as well as engage advertisers with the goal of increasing their overall spend. For example, our Local customer success team helps educate local business owners about how using Yelp can benefit their businesses, including by helping them create, update and familiarize themselves with their Yelp business pages. Our customer success teams are also responsible for managing campaign performance by suggesting ad content and helping optimize to improve campaign performance. Self-serve Sales. Our Self-serve platform allows businesses to purchase and manage their advertising products directly from our website or the Yelp for Business app. Businesses can purchase Yelp Ads and business page upgrades directly through our Self-serve platform. The convenience of our Self-serve platform has helped us reduce our reliance on sales and customer support headcount. In 2024, our performance marketing and continued improvements to the business owner experience drove another year of record Self-serve customer acquisition. Sales Partnerships. We also generate revenue through the resale of our advertising products by certain agencies and partners, such as Thryv, as well as monetization of remnant advertising inventory through third-party ad networks. Our Yelp Advertising Partner Program allows partner agencies to independently sell and manage ad campaigns on behalf of their SMB clients, providing increased centralization and flexibility. The products covered by these arrangements include Yelp Ads as well as all of our business profile products. 5 Table of Contents Technology We rely on a set of core technologies that enable us to be a trusted local resource for consumers and a partner in success to businesses of all sizes. We provide scalable services across platforms and devices using a combination of proprietary, open source and third-party technology solutions and products: Anticipating Consumer Needs. We analyze the large volumes of data collected from our platform and apply our proprietary indexing and ranking techniques to provide our users with contextual, relevant and up-to-date information. Our sophisticated search platform delivers search results faster and at a lower cost than the industry-standard solution for some use cases, allowing better search matching and ad targeting. We also apply machine learning algorithms to predict user needs and preferences based on factors such as the users recent activity, location, time of day and season, then tailor the users experience on Yelp accordingly. In our Services categories, for example, if a user recently searched for movers, we might suggest searches for businesses offering self-storage or junk removal. Similarly, if our data suggests that a user is a homeowner, we might promote collections of businesses that offer spring cleaning or other seasonally appropriate services. Recommendation Software. Our recommendation software refers to the proprietary automated trust and safety software systems that we have developed to analyze the relevance, reliability and utility of each review submitted to our platform. Recommended reviews those that the software deems to be the most useful and reliable appear directly on Yelp business pages, while less trustworthy and unreliable content appear on secondary pages and do not factor into a businesss overall star rating. Our recommendation software analyzes all reviews, reviewers and businesses, using hundreds of signals and billions of data points, and applies the same objective standards to each review, regardless of whether the business being reviewed advertises on Yelp. These signals include those related to the reviewers type and level of activity with Yelp (which might correspond to the reviewers reliability or suggest reviewer biases) and whether certain reviews originate from related Internet Protocol (IP) addresses (which might mean the reviews were submitted by the same person). The software regularly evaluates each review and, as a result, its analysis can change over time as new data becomes available; reviews that were previously recommended may become not recommended, and reviews that were previously not recommended may be restored to recommended status. AI, Machine Learning and Large Language Models. We use AI, including machine learning, to power and enhance features across our platform. Deep learning neural networks model user behavior to select the most relevant ads to display and predict which photo shown in an ad will generate the most clicks. We use large language models (LLMs) to better understand user intent in search queries and enhance our search capabilities, including by determining the most relevant information from reviews to display in the business highlights that appear in search results. LLMs also play an important role in analyzing user-generated content to protect consumers and business owners from malicious or harmful content. Neural network-based systems also support our content moderation efforts by proactively removing video content that may be inappropriate. While AI can be a powerful tool, we recognize that it has limitations and so approach our use of it thoughtfully. For example, to mitigate potential concerns regarding the accuracy of our AI-powered summaries, we populate the summaries with quotes from actual reviews. Similarly, although we believe incorporating AI features into our platform provides benefits for consumers and businesses, we also understand that the use of AI is not desirable in all contexts. For example, to address the risk that AI tools are abused to create untrustworthy reviews, we have invested significantly in methods to better detect and mitigate AI-created reviews on our platform, which our policies prohibit, including several new detection technologies powered by AI. Mobile Solutions. With our most engaged users on our mobile app, we have invested significant resources into developing a comprehensive mobile platform for consumers that supports both major smartphone operating systems available today, iOS and Android. Similarly, we designed our Yelp for Business app to make it easier for businesses to engage with their customers and manage their presence on Yelp. Currently available for iOS and Android, this app provides businesses with daily metrics reports, page view analytics and leads data, as well as the ability to manage quote requests and opportunities in Nearby Jobs. Businesses can also purchase, customize and manage Yelp Ads through the Yelp for Business app. Ad Delivery. We use proprietary ad targeting and delivery technologies that are designed to quickly target and display hyper-relevant advertisements to users of our platform. When a consumer enters a search on our app, these technologies determine the most relevant ads to show and serve those ads alongside the organic search results, typically in less than half a second. Our targeting software leverages neural networks that evaluate more than 4,000 signals about the user, business and search context to make sure consumers see the right ad at the right time and drive ad clicks. 6 Table of Contents Auction System. We use an auction system to determine the price we charge advertisers for ad clicks. Our auction system uses advanced algorithms to bid on ad placements on behalf of advertisers, taking into account their budgets, current and predicted levels of relevant consumer traffic, changes in user behavior and competition from other advertisers, among other things. These bidding algorithms are also designed to prioritize spending advertiser budgets efficiently and maximize ad clicks, with the goal of delivering as much value to advertisers as possible. For example, if our models predict that relevant consumer traffic will meaningfully decrease for a period of time during an ad campaign, our bidding algorithms will dynamically allocate advertiser budget around that period to avoid spending a disproportionate amount of the budget while supply is constrained. To conduct an average of nearly 18 million auctions per day, we predict demand for 16 million ad categories and distinct time intervals to set bid pricing and pacing, then optimize bids 96 times per day per advertiser. Infrastructure. The vast majority of our platform is currently hosted by Amazon Web Services (AWS) from multiple locations, which allows us to scale our infrastructure dynamically according to demand as well as optimize the cost and performance of our infrastructure. Our platform is designed to have high availability, from the Internet connectivity providers we choose, to the servers, databases and networking hardware that we deploy. We design our systems such that the failure of any individual component is not expected to affect the overall availability of our platform. We also leverage other third-party cloud-based services such as content delivery networks, rich-content storage, map-related services, ad serving and bulk processing. Network Security. Computer viruses, malware, phishing attacks, denial-of-service and other attacks and similar disruptions from unauthorized use of computer systems have become more prevalent in our industry, have occurred on our systems in the past and we expect them to occur periodically on our systems in the future. For information about our cybersecurity risk management, strategy and governance practices, see the section titled Cybersecurity included under Part I, Item 1C of this Annual Report. Maintaining the Integrity of Our Content Providing access to useful and reliable information to help inform consumers spending decisions is critical to our mission of connecting people with great local businesses. With misinformation and deceptive behavior common across the Internet, we have prioritized combating this sort of conduct since our earliest days to maintain user trust and level the playing field for hard-working businesses that earn their great reputations honestly. Our industry-leading trust and safety measures include investments in both advanced technology and human moderation: Recommendation Software. Our automated recommendation software is our first line of defense against unreliable content and misinformation submitted to our platform. As described in more detail under Technology above, our recommendation software analyzes billions of data points and hundreds of signals from all reviews, businesses and reviewers in an effort to recommend the most useful and reliable reviews. Our recommendation software helps us mitigate misinformation at scale by detecting and de-emphasizing less trustworthy reviews, including content that may be: Biased: including reviews written by those with ties to a business, such as competitors, disgruntled employees, friends or family. Solicited: when someone associated with a business requested the review, which can create a positive bias that is unfair to other businesses. When asked to write a review by a business, customers may feel pressured to give the business a higher star rating than someone who was inspired to write a review on their own. Businesses also tend to ask for reviews from customers they know will give them a great rating. Less reliable: including reviews written by less active users, whom we dont know enough about to recommend their opinion to our community, and reviews connected to suspicious behavior, such as when a disproportionate number of reviews for a business are submitted from the same IP address. Less useful: including unhelpful rants and raves as well as irrelevant information. As of December 31, 2024, approximately 76% of the reviews submitted to our platform were recommended by our automated software and approximately 15% were not recommended but still accessible on secondary pages. Although they do not factor into a businesss overall star rating, we provide access to reviews that are not recommended to provide transparency regarding reviewed businesses and reviewers as well as the efficacy of our recommendation software. 7 Table of Contents Community. Yelp has always been a community-driven review platform, and we encourage authentic content from the start of the user experience. We encourage users to complete a public profile, which not only helps build a community but also helps signal the reliability of their content. We also established the Yelp Elite Squad to provide recognition to users who are active in the Yelp community and consistently contribute high-quality content. In addition to encouraging reliable content and fair play from the outset, our communities serve as additional layers of oversight. For example, we provide easy ways for our communities of users and business owners to report content that they believe violates our guidelines and suggest updates to business information. We also provide multiple ways for business owners to respond to reviews. Human Content Moderation. In addition to investigating individual reports of content that violates our policies, our User Operations team conducts and facilitates larger investigations into attempts to deceive consumers. For example, we proactively work to identify businesses and individuals who offer or receive cash, discounts or other benefits in exchange for reviews, such as reputation management companies that offer to artificially inflate search rankings and online reputations. Our human-powered moderation is also able to identify and thwart nuanced attempts to mislead consumers that other platforms may miss. For example, in 2024, our moderators identified and closed hundreds of thousands user accounts and reviewed over one hundred thousand flagged photos associated with scammers impersonating airline customer service representatives to steal consumers personal information. In addition to taking direct corrective action such as recategorizing businesses to appropriately reflect their services or closing user accounts, as in the example above if we identify or confirm any attempts to mislead consumers or similar issues through our investigations, we typically pursue one or more of the courses of action described below (each of which we may also employ on a stand-alone basis). Consumer Alerts Program. Our consumer alerts program warns consumers when we find evidence of extreme attempts to manipulate a businesss ratings and reviews or other egregious conduct that may harm consumers and unfairly put other businesses at a disadvantage. When we issue a consumer alert, a warning message appears above the review section of the businesss Yelp page with information about the reason for the alert and, where available, a link to the evidence we collected in support of the alert. We issue consumer alerts for the following types of activity: Unusual activity: in order for Yelp to remain a useful resource, reviews must be based on genuine, first-hand experiences. When people take to a businesss Yelp page to express their views after the business receives increased public attention, our User Operations team may temporarily disable the posting of content to the page and publish a public attention alert as they investigate and remove content that violates our policies. Public attention alerts: this type of consumer alert informs consumers when a business gains public attention for either being accused of, or the target of, racist behavior. When there is resounding evidence of egregious, racist actions from a business owner or employee, and after a thorough investigation that includes providing a link to media reports about the alleged incident, we may escalate a public attention alert to a business accused of racist behavior alert. In 2024, only two public attention alerts were escalated to a business accused of racist behavior alert. Suspicious review activity: this alert informs consumers if we have uncovered a disproportionate number of positive reviews submitted from the same IP address, which can indicate a concerted effort to inflate the businesss overall star rating on Yelp. We also issue this type of alert when we discover a business has a possible connection to a deceptive review ring. Compensated activity: we issue this type of consumer alert if we encounter a business attempting to purchase favorable reviews, incentivizing new or updated reviews, or offering compensation to remove reviews. Questionable legal threats: when we receive evidence that a business is making dubious legal threats against a reviewer or using a contractual gag clause in an attempt to prevent critical reviews, we issue this type of alert to warn others that the business may be attempting to abuse the legal system to maintain an inflated star rating. In 2024, we introduced a consumer alerts history section on Yelp business pages, which includes a list of each businesss previous compensated activity alerts, suspicious review activity alerts and questionable legal threats alerts. This warns users of abnormal review activity or attempts to mislead, supplementing our existing public index of alert recipients. Removal of Reviews and Other Content. We regularly remove reviews, photos and other content from our platform that we believe violate our terms of service, including, without limitation: reviews that do not reflect a first-hand consumer experience; 8 Table of Contents content that has been bought, sold or traded; AI-created reviews; and reviews that are posted by someone we believe to be affiliated with the reviewed business. We also take steps to ensure that Yelp is a safe and welcoming place for everyone by removing threatening, harassing or lewd content, as well as hate speech and other displays of bigotry. Consumers can access information about reviews that we have removed for a particular business by clicking on a link on the businesss Yelp page. As of December 31, 2024, approximately 9% of the reviews submitted to our platform had been removed. Coordination with Law Enforcement. We regularly cooperate with law enforcement and consumer protection agencies to investigate and identify businesses and individuals who may be engaged in false advertising or other deceptive practices relating to reviews. We regularly provide the Federal Trade Commission and other regulators with leads on deceptive reviews and conduct. In 2023, we started publishing an index that regularly lists the latest compensated activity and suspicious review activity alerts we have placed on Yelp business pages, making it easier for regulators to identify businesses that may have participated in suspicious or deceptive review activity. Legal Action. Our terms of service prohibit the buying and selling of reviews, as well as writing fake reviews. We regularly issue demands to third parties engaging in these and other deceptive activities that they cease such activities in relation to our platform. In egregious cases, we take legal action against businesses we believe to be engaged in deceptive practices based on these prohibitions. For example, in December 2023, we filed a lawsuit against ReviewVio, a reputation management company offering review gating services to local businesses and falsely claiming to be able to remove bad reviews from Yelp and other online review platforms for a fee. After a federal court ruled that we could proceed with our claims, acknowledging the harm caused by the alleged unfair business practices, we entered into a settlement agreement with ReviewVio in July 2024. Consumer Engagement At the heart of our business are the vibrant communities of users that contribute the content on our platform. We help businesses succeed by empowering them to reach a large audience of purchase-oriented consumers, which depends on our ability to attract consumer traffic with valuable content. The rich, first-hand information about local businesses that our users share in the form of reviews, ratings, photos and more is the reason consumers come to Yelp when making their spending decisions and is therefore the foundation of our value proposition to businesses. Community Management For the above reasons, we foster and support communities of users and make the consumer experience a top priority. We have a team of Community Managers and Community Ambassadors based across the United States and Canada whose primary goals are to support and grow communities of users in the local markets that they serve, raise brand awareness and engage with their surrounding communities through: planning and executing fun and engaging events for the community, such as parties, outings and activities at restaurants, museums, hotels and other local places of interest; getting to know community members and helping them get to know one another to foster an offline community experience that can be transferred online; promoting Yelp, including guest appearances on local television and radio, and at local events such as concerts and street fairs; and recurring weekly e-mail newsletters to share information with the community about local businesses, events and activities. Through these activities, we believe our Community Management team helps us increase awareness of our platform and grow avid communities who are willing to contribute content to our platform. We plan to continue these community development efforts in 2025. Yelp Elite Squad Our Community Managers responsibilities include engaging with our most passionate users Yelp Elite Squad members (Yelp Elites). From the earliest days of Yelp, it was clear that some of our users went above and beyond with their prolific reviews, thoughtful photos and commitment to supporting local businesses by sharing their experiences. These users were not only active in their Yelp communities, but were also role models on and offline. Their voices helped make Yelp what it is 9 Table of Contents today, and we started the Yelp Elite Squad to recognize these passionate individuals, signal our trust in them and their contributions, and encourage similar beneficial activities in our communities. Beyond having well-written reviews, high-quality photos and a detailed personal profile, Yelp Elite Squad members are active evangelists for their Yelp communities. Yelp Elites receive a badge on their Yelp profile pages and Community Managers organize sponsored social events for them, which facilitates face-to-face interactions, builds the Yelp brand and fosters the sense of true community in which we believe so strongly. These behind-the-scenes looks at top-rated businesses often include interacting with business owners, hearing their unique stories and engaging with other locals in their community; however, as users of our service, Yelp Elites do not receive compensation for their contributions. Intellectual Property We rely on federal, state, and international statutory, common law and other legal rights, as well as contractual restrictions, to protect our intellectual property. We pursue the registration of our copyrights, trademarks, service marks and domain names in the United States and in certain locations internationally. Our trademark registration efforts have focused on gaining protection for the word mark Yelp and the Yelp burst logo, among others. These marks are material to our business and essential to our brand identity as they enable others to easily identify us as the source of the services offered in connection with these marks. We control access to and distribution of our trade secrets, including our proprietary technology and algorithms, by entering into confidentiality and inventions assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, as well as confidentiality agreements with third parties, and taking other reasonable precautions intended to prevent unauthorized disclosure. However, contractual restrictions, policies and processes that protect our trade secrets provide only limited safeguards against misappropriation. We also currently have only limited patent protection for our core business, which may make it more difficult to assert certain of our intellectual property rights. Any unauthorized disclosure or use of our intellectual property, or significant impairment of our intellectual property rights, could make it more expensive to do business and harm our operating results. Protecting our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming, and our efforts to do so may not be sufficient or effective. In addition, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in the United States or other countries in which we operate. Companies in the Internet, technology and media industries own large numbers of patents and other intellectual property rights, and may request license agreements or threaten to enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of such rights. From time to time, we receive notice letters from patent holders alleging that certain of our products and services infringe their patent rights. We have also been subject to, and expect to face in the future, allegations that we have infringed the trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights of third parties, including our competitors and non-practicing entities. We may face more such claims of infringement as our business grows, we face increasing competition, and we increasingly use new or different technologies. Competition We compete in rapidly evolving and intensely competitive markets, and we expect competition to intensify further in the future with the emergence of new technologies and market entrants. Our competitors consist of companies that help businesses particularly businesses in our strategically important Services categories and, to a lesser extent, restaurants category connect and engage with consumers, including: online search engines and directories, including those incorporating AI technologies, such as Google and OpenAI, as well as traditional, offline business guides and directories; online and offline providers of consumer ratings, reviews and referrals, such as TripAdvisor, as well as social media platforms and features where consumers are increasingly searching for and posting information about local businesses, such as TikTok and Reddit; providers of online marketing and tools for managing and optimizing advertising campaigns, such as Google, Instagram and, increasingly, food ordering and delivery services that also offer online advertising, such as DoorDash; providers of various forms of traditional offline advertising, including radio, direct marketing campaigns, yellow pages and newspapers; restaurant reservation and seating tools, such as OpenTable and Resy, as well as food ordering and delivery services; and 10 Table of Contents home and/or local services-related platforms and offerings, such as Angi and Thumbtack. Some of our competitors enjoy competitive advantages, such as greater name recognition, longer operating histories, substantially greater market share, established marketing relationships with, and access to, large existing user bases and substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. These companies may use these advantages to offer products similar to ours at a lower price, develop different products or partner with our competitors to compete with our current solutions, and respond more quickly and effectively than we do to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or client requirements. Certain competitors could also use strong or dominant positions in one or more markets to gain competitive advantage against us in markets in which we operate. We believe our ability to compete successfully for users, content, and advertising and other customers depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including: the popularity, usefulness, ease of use, performance and reliability of our products and services compared to those of our competitors; our ability, in and of itself as well as in comparison to the ability of our competitors, to develop new products and services and enhancements to existing products and services; the quantity, quality and reliability of our content, including its breadth, depth and timeliness; our ad targeting and measurement capabilities, and those of our competitors; the size, composition and level of engagement of our consumer audience relative to those of our competitors; our marketing and selling efforts, and those of our competitors; the pricing of our products and services relative to those of our competitors; the actual or perceived return our customers receive from our products and services relative to returns from our competitors; the frequency and relative prominence of the ads displayed by us or our competitors; acquisitions or consolidation within our industry, which may result in more formidable competitors; and our reputation and brand strength relative to our competitors. Government Regulation As a company conducting business on the Internet, we are subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the United States and abroad that involve matters central to our business, including laws regarding privacy, data protection, data security, user-generated content and consumer protection, among others. For example: Privacy, Data Protection and Data Security. Because we receive, store and process personal information and other user data, including payment information in certain cases, we are subject to numerous data privacy and security obligations, including federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations, guidance and industry standards, that govern the collection, storing, use, retention, processing and disclosure of personal information and other user data. The laws in many jurisdictions require companies to implement specific security controls and contractual arrangements to protect certain types of information. Likewise, many jurisdictions have laws in place requiring companies to notify users and government agencies if there is a security breach that compromises certain categories of their information. We are also subject to laws that require us to publish statements that accurately and fairly describe how we handle personal information and choices individuals have about the way we handle their personal information. Liability for Third-Party Action. We rely on laws limiting the liability of providers of online services for activities of their users and other third parties, such as Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act (CDA 230) in the United States. Advertising. We are subject to a variety of laws, regulations and guidelines that regulate the way we distinguish paid search results and other types of advertising from unpaid search results. We operate in a rapidly evolving industry, and many laws and regulations that impact our business are being proposed, still evolving or being tested in courts. The application and interpretation of these laws and regulations are often uncertain, and they could be interpreted and applied in ways that harm our business. They may also conflict with other rules, be interpreted and 11 Table of Contents applied inconsistently (including from country to country) and in ways that are at odds with our current policies and practices. As our business grows and evolves, we will also become subject to additional laws and regulations, including in jurisdictions outside of the United States. For example, laws providing immunity to websites that publish user-generated content are regularly tested in courts by a number of claims, including actions based on invasion of privacy and other torts, unfair competition, copyright and trademark infringement and other theories based on the nature and content of the materials searched, the ads posted or the content provided by users. There are also regular legislative and regulatory efforts to restrict the scope of the protections available to online platforms under CDA 230, and our current protections from liability for third-party content in the United States could decrease or change as a result. Claims and legislation applicable to user-generated content also regularly arise in other jurisdictions. Regulatory frameworks related to the processing of personal information are also evolving and generally becoming increasingly stringent. In the United States, several states have introduced comprehensive data privacy, data protection and data security legislation, such as the California Consumer Privacy Act.These laws generally give residents of such states the ability to access and require deletion of their personal information, opt out of certain personal information sharing, and opt out of cross-contextual advertising, profiling and automated decision making. They also provide for civil penalties, which may include statutory damages, and, in certain states, residents have a private right of action for data breaches. As more states adopt privacy, data protection and data security laws with different obligations and limitations on the processing of personal information, our compliance efforts become more complex and expensive and we are exposed to greater potential liabilities. There has also been discussion in Congress of a new comprehensive federal data protection and privacy law to which we likely would be subject if it is enacted. Foreign laws and regulations concerning privacy, data protection and data security are also evolving and are often more restrictive and burdensome than those in the United States; any failure on our part to comply with them may subject us to significant liabilities. For example, the European Unions General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and its equivalent in the United Kingdom (UK GDPR) impose comprehensive privacy, data protection and data security obligations on businesses as well as significant penalties for non-compliance. Among other obligations under the GDPR and UK GDPR, businesses are required to make contractual privacy, data protection and data security commitments; give detailed disclosures about how they collect, use and share personal information; maintain adequate security measures; notify regulators and affected individuals of certain personal information breaches; meet extensive governance and documentation requirements; and honor individuals rights to their personal information. European data protection laws including the GDPR and UK GDPR also restrict the transfer of personal information from Europe to the United States and most other countries unless the parties to the transfer have implemented specific safeguards or adhere to transfer frameworks that aim to protect the transferred personal information. If our solution for personal information transfers from Europe is deemed insufficient and no other valid solution can be readily implemented, we will face increased exposure to regulatory actions, substantial fines, and injunctions against processing or transferring personal information from Europe and may be required to increase our data processing capabilities in Europe at significant expense. Other countries outside of Europe have enacted or are considering enacting similar cross-border data transfer restrictions and laws with more restrictive data protection obligations, which could increase the cost and complexity of operating our business. For example, Canadas Quebec province has enacted Law 25, a comprehensive data privacy law governing data processing for Quebec residents with many of the same requirements as the GDPR. For additional information, see the section titled Risk FactorsOur business is subject to complex and evolving U.S. and foreign regulations and other legal obligations related to privacy, data protection and other matters. Our actual or perceived failure to comply with such regulations and obligations could harm our business. Human Capital Management At Yelp, we deeply value our community of employees who sustain our culture through their dedication to our mission of connecting people with great local businesses and to living our values of authenticity, tenacity, creativity, collegiality and prioritizing consumer trust. We have long focused on building a team of innovators and problem solvers who can bring their whole professional selves to work, which we believe positions our employees to relate to and solve the needs of consumers and businesses. 12 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2024, we had 5,116* employees globally across the following teams: * Includes employees on leave as of December 31, 2024. Distributed Work We believe that operating on a distributed basis is in the best interests of both Yelp and our employees. We have operated successfully as a remote workforce since March 2020 and committed to a fully remote working model in 2022 based on strong employee support for our distributed operations. The vast majority of our team works remotely on a full-time basis, which has allowed us to significantly reduce our office footprint and workplace operating costs. We believe this model provides even greater flexibility to our employees, who now have the opportunity to relocate within the countries where we operate so they can live where they want to live and work where they will feel most effective. It also provides employees with more opportunities for flexible work schedules and reduces time spent commuting. In addition, our distributed operations allow us to access and attract great talent from a wider pool of candidates across North America and Europe. Culture We consider our company culture to be one of our competitive strengths; it is at the foundation of our success and continues to help drive our business forward as a pivotal part of our everyday operations. It allows us to attract and retain a talented group of employees, create an energetic work experience and continue to innovate in a highly competitive market. Distributed Workforce.While we have always taken great pride in our company culture, it has never been static, and our decision to become a fully remote workforce is driving its latest evolution. We have built upon our existing strong and collaborative culture to foster a thriving distributed workforce. We are committed to designing our employee experience around remote work to create an environment where individuals feel that they belong. Our efforts include focusing on creating meaningful opportunities for career advancement, regardless of where an employee is located, as well as opportunities to contribute by continuing to hold meetings in digital space. At the same time, we are committed to establishing and maintaining the collaborative and creative working relationships that our pre-pandemic office environments fostered through, among other things, regular in-person gatherings. Employee Engagement. To maintain our vibrant culture and address any areas of employee concern, we conduct regular employee engagement surveys covering a wide range of topics including: manager effectiveness; feedback and recognition; company confidence; inclusion and belonging; learning and development; and remote work issues such as managing remotely, manager and team support, employee well-being in a remote environment, and remote connection opportunities. We also conduct biennial surveys regarding employee programs and benefits. We implemented a number of changes that took effect in 2024 in response to the results of our most recent benefits survey, including enhancement of our retirement plans and the addition of non-medical surrogacy expenses as an eligible reimbursement, among other things. We also improved the benefit programs for our employees in Canada with coverage of gender affirmation service and voluntary critical illness and life insurance. 13 Table of Contents Making a Difference. We endeavor to have a positive impact on the communities in which people use Yelp by using our platform to raise awareness, promote economic opportunity for those in need and support organizations that serve local communities. In addition to participating in virtual volunteer events in partnership with various nonprofit organizations, Yelp employees made a difference in 2024 through the Yelp Foundation (the Foundation), a non-profit organization established by our Board in 2011 that directly supports consumers and local businesses in the communities in which we operate. In 2011, our Board approved the contribution and issuance to the Foundation of 520,000 shares of our common stock to fund grants to local non-profit organizations that are actively engaged in supporting community and small business growth. The Foundation held 132,000 shares as of December 31, 2024, which represented less than 1% of our outstanding common stock. One of the Foundations missions is to promote a culture of philanthropy among Yelp employees and, to that end, the Foundation offers up to $1,000 per person in matching donations each year to eligible charitable organizations made by our regular full-time employees. In 2024, the Foundation again matched Yelp employee donations made to a wide range of charitable organizations, including those focused on the causes that mattered most to our employees: education; human services; international affairs and national security; health; and arts, culture and humanities. Talent Attraction and Retention Our success depends on our continuing ability to attract, develop, motivate, and retain highly qualified and skilled employees. Qualified individuals are in high demand and we expect to continue to face significant competition from other companies in hiring and retaining such personnel. While our plans to continue operating on a distributed basis may mitigate this challenge by expanding the pool of candidates from which we draw, we may continue to face significant competition for talent. We focus on attracting top talent through our employment marketing and outreach initiatives. We advertise our career opportunities on premier job boards and aggregators in addition to running targeted brand campaigns. We maintain an active voice on social media through our Life at Yelp channel, which highlights employee testimonials regarding their Yelp experiences. Our distributed workforce model has expanded our hiring reach, allowing us to access and attract great talent pools regardless of geography. Our recruiting team partners with a variety of organizations to source and attract qualified talent. We also focus on attracting early-in-career talent through university outreach and on-campus recruiting efforts, as well as through partnerships with organizations that connect our recruiting team to qualified networks of recent and upcoming college graduates. We believe that happy employees are successful employees and that providing an environment in which our employees can thrive both personally and professionally will help us attract and retain great talent. In addition to offering our employees the flexibility to work remotely, we offer competitive compensation and comprehensive benefits, including standard health, dental, vision, life and disability insurance benefits as well as a 401(k) plan with company matching for our U.S. employees. To foster a sense of ownership and align the interests of our employees and stockholders, we offer an employee stock purchase plan and grant equity awards, primarily in the form of restricted stock units, to eligible employees under our equity incentive plans. We are committed to compensating all of our employees fairly for their contributions, regardless of gender, race or ethnicity. We also provide comprehensive talent development programs, as described below, as well as health and financial wellness programs. In addition to our insurance benefits, our wellness program includes a monthly wellness subsidy, access to mental health support and services through Modern Health and our Employee Assistance Program, as well as financial wellness programs such as financial counseling and tools to help manage student loans. Talent Development To help our employees succeed in their current roles and to aid their career development, we emphasize continuous learning and development opportunities. Our talent development programs begin with a global onboarding program to acclimate new employees to our culture and collaborative ways of working in a distributed work environment. We believe this investment in creating early connections and establishing a solid foundation for further career growth is a critical factor in employee success and ultimately employee retention. Similarly, effective leadership is an important driver of an employees growth and feelings of belonging and connection to our purpose. To that end, we provide leadership development programs for new and continuing managers that focus on developing the self, developing others and driving business results. We also provide ongoing learning opportunities for individual contributors that focus on managing the self, emotional intelligence, and career and professional development. Through our professional development program, employees can partner with their managers to create career development plans and receive an annual development reimbursement to invest in their growth. We also offer customized coaching resources to provide individual support and develop critical skills, as well as regular, ongoing training in compliance and workplace conduct matters to all employees. 14 Table of Contents Seasonality and Cyclicality Our business is affected by seasonal fluctuations in Internet usage and advertising spending, as well as cyclicality in economic activity: Seasonality. Based on historical trends, our revenue in a particular year is typically lowest in the first quarter of that year and increases sequentially through the third quarter. Fourth quarter revenue is typically similar to the third quarter as well as to the first quarter of the subsequent year. Ad budgets for our multi-location customers typically increase throughout the year, generally starting the year at their lowest and peaking in the fourth quarter, while SMB ad budgets tend to decrease in the fourth quarter. With regard to expenses, we generally decrease our marketing expenditures in the fourth quarter before increasing them again in the first quarter of the following year. Our personnel expenses tend to increase from the fourth quarter to the first quarter due to the timing of payroll taxes and benefits, as well as our annual compensation cycle. Our traffic is also typically weakest in the fourth quarter of the year. Cyclicality. Many businesses reduce their advertising spending during challenging macroeconomic environments. SMBs in particular which have historically experienced high failure rates and which make up a significant portion of our advertiser base may be disproportionately affected by negative fluctuations in the business cycle. As a result, adverse macroeconomic conditions or a worsening economic outlook typically have a negative impact on the ability and willingness of advertisers to spend on our products and services. Many businesses, particularly in our Restaurants, Retail & Other (RR&O) categories, have faced challenging operating environments in recent years, including supply chain issues, inflation, inventory and labor shortages, increased cost of labor and other macroeconomic pressures. These adverse conditions have negatively impacted their advertising spending with us and have had, and may continue to have, a significant adverse impact on our business and revenue. We expect that our business will continue to be significantly negatively affected for the duration of the current adverse macroeconomic conditions as well as any future recessionary period or protracted economic downturn. Corporate and Available Information We were incorporated in Delaware on September 3, 2004. Our principal executive offices are located at 350 Mission Street, 10th Floor, San Francisco, California 94105, and our telephone number is (415) 908-3801. Our website is located at www.yelp.com, and our investor relations website is located at www.yelp-ir.com. We file or furnish electronically with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. We make copies of these reports available free of charge through our investor relations website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish them with the SEC. These reports are also accessible through the SEC website at www.sec.gov. We webcast our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community on our investor relations website. Additionally, we provide notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, including filings with the SEC, investor events, press and earnings releases, and blogs as part of our investor relations website. Investors and others can receive notifications of new information posted on our investor relations website in real time by signing up for e-mail alerts and RSS feeds. Information contained on or accessible through our websites is not incorporated into, and does not form a part of, this Annual Report or any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 15 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Adverse macroeconomic conditions such as the current uncertain economic environment have had, and may continue to have, a significant adverse impact on our business and results of operations, and also exposes our business to other risks. The United States continues to face widespread macroeconomic uncertainties, including labor shortages, inflation and recessionary concerns, which may be exacerbated by proposed tariffs and changes to U.S. immigration policy. These challenging macroeconomic conditions have had, and may continue to have, a significant adverse impact on our business and results of operations. For example, adverse macroeconomic conditions have had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on the ability and willingness of advertisers to spend on our products and services. The weakness we observed in advertiser demand from RR&O businesses beginning in late December 2023 continued throughout 2024, resulting in advertising revenue from RR&O businesses decreasing 3% year over year. We believe the performance of our RR&O categories in 2024 was primarily due to the challenging operating environment businesses in these categories continue to face, including supply chain issues, inflation and its impact on consumer spending, labor shortages and an increased cost of labor. We expect these challenges to persist and have an adverse impact on our results of operations in 2025. Changes in consumer behavior due to adverse economic conditions may also negatively impact our business. For example, in 2024, economic uncertainty and inflationary pressures contributed to consumer use of our mobile app and web traffic to our platform remaining below pre-pandemic 2019 levels. This impact was particularly pronounced in certain geographies within the United States and in our RR&O categories. Because traffic to and user engagement on our platform together impact the number of ads we are able to show as well as the value of those ads to businesses, such negative impacts on consumer activity may also make it more difficult to convince existing and prospective advertisers that our products offer them a material benefit and generate a competitive return relative to other alternatives. As macroeconomic uncertainties continue, our business is exposed to a variety of risks, including: continued reduced demand for our products, lower retention rates, and increased challenges in or cost of acquiring new customers; reductions in cash flows from operations and liquidity, which impacts our capital allocation strategy in turn; setbacks on the progress of our strategic initiatives as we reallocate resources to responding to such adverse conditions; reductions in traffic, engagement, and the quantity and quality of the content provided by our users, which may further harm traffic to our platform; increased fluctuation in our operating results and volatility and uncertainty in our financial projections; inefficiencies, delays and disruptions in our business due to the illness of key employees or a significant portion of our workforce; additional restructuring and impairment charges; and operational difficulties due to adverse effects of such conditions on our third-party service providers and strategic partners. It is not possible for us to predict the remaining duration of the current adverse macroeconomic conditions, or the duration or magnitude of the resulting adverse impact on our business. We expect that our business will continue to be significantly adversely affected for the duration of any recessionary period or protracted economic downturn. We generate substantially all of our revenue from advertising. If we fail to maintain and expand our base of advertisers, our revenue and our business will be harmed. In order to maintain and expand our advertiser base, we must convince existing and prospective advertisers alike that our advertising products offer them a material benefit and generate a competitive return relative to other alternatives. Adverse macroeconomic conditions may make this more difficult, particularly when such macroeconomic conditions disproportionately affect the SMBs on which we rely, as was the case with the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Many businesses continue to face supply chain issues, inflation, inventory and labor shortages, and an increased cost of labor. These conditions have had, and may continue to have, a significant adverse impact on our business and revenue; for example, we believe these macroeconomic pressures have been responsible for the weakness in advertiser demand in our RR&O categories we have been 16 Table of Contents experiencing since late December 2023. Advertisers will not advertise with us, or they will reduce the prices they are willing to pay to advertise with us, if we do not deliver compelling ad products in an effective manner, or if we do not provide accurate, easy-to-use analytics and measurement solutions that demonstrate the effectiveness and value of our products. As is typical in our industry, our advertisers generally have the ability to cancel their ad campaigns at any time without penalty. If we are unable to quickly and effectively respond to any decrease in customer satisfaction, economic downturn or other change negatively affecting our ability to retain advertisers, our ability to maintain and expand our advertiser base will be harmed. In addition, a significant portion of our advertiser base consists of SMBs, which are subject to increased challenges and risks. SMBs often have limited advertising budgets and view online advertising products like ours as experimental and unproven; as a result, we may need to devote additional time and resources to educate them about our products and services. Such businesses have also historically experienced high failure rates, and we must continually add new advertisers to replace those who do not renew their advertising due to factors outside of our control, such as declining advertising budgets, closures and bankruptcies. Our advertising revenue could be impacted by a number of other factors, including, but not limited to: the perceived effectiveness and acceptance of online advertising generally, particularly among SMBs that may have less experience with it; our ability to drive traffic to our platform, which remains below pre-pandemic levels, and increase user engagement, including engagement with the ads displayed on our platform; challenging macroeconomic conditions or trends that negatively impact consumer demand, such as the current inflationary environment and consumers visiting many types of businesses less frequently than prior to the pandemic; the effectiveness of our ad targeting technology and tools for advertisers to optimize their campaigns; our ability to innovate and introduce enhanced products meeting advertiser expectations; product changes or inventory management decisions we may make that change the size, format, frequency or relative prominence of ads displayed on our platform; the widespread adoption of any technologies that make it more difficult for us to deliver ads, such as ad-blocking programs; loss of advertising business to our competitors, including if competitors offer lower priced or more integrated products; the prevalence of low-quality or invalid traffic on our platform, such as robots and spiders, which we have discovered in the past and expect to discover in the future, and our ability to detect and prevent click fraud or other invalid clicks on ads; our reputation and perceptions regarding our platform, including of the ratings and reviews that businesses receive from our users favorable ratings and reviews could be perceived as obviating the need to advertise, while unfavorable ratings and reviews could discourage businesses from advertising to an audience that they perceive as hostile; the size and productivity of our sales force, which may be affected by a range of factors, not all of which are within our control; the degree to which businesses choose to reach users through our free products in lieu of our paid products and services; and the pricing of our products, including the CPCs determined by our auction system, which have increased in recent quarters even as we have delivered fewer ad clicks. Any of these or other factors could result in a reduction in demand for our products, which would negatively affect our revenue and operating results. 17 Table of Contents Our strategy to grow our business may not be successful and may expose us to additional risks. Our growth strategy includes priorities such as creating a best-in-class experience in our Services categories for consumers and service professionals, driving advertiser value through our advanced technology, and transforming the consumer experience on our platform. These initiatives involve risks and executing on them may prove more difficult than we currently anticipate. We may not succeed in realizing the benefits of these efforts, including growing our revenue and improving our margins, within the time frame we expect or at all. For example, our 2024 initiative to acquire Services leads off Yelp through paid search significantly increased our marketing expenses, but ultimately did not provide our desired return. Our ability to execute each of our strategic priorities depends on our ability to develop innovative, relevant and useful products in a timely manner. Developing successful products requires substantial investments, and such investments may not prioritize short-term financial results and may involve significant risks and uncertainties. For example, new products may fail to generate sufficient revenue, operating margin or other value to justify the investments we made in them, which is a particular risk for new products that are unproven or that are outside of our historical core business. We will also face industry challenges to our strategic focus on our Services business. In addition to being a highly competitive, fragmented market, it has not yet fully embraced online solutions of the type we offer. Many of our consumers continue to search for, select and hire service professionals offline through word-of-mouth and referrals. Changing traditional habits is difficult, and the speed and ultimate outcome of the shift of these markets online for consumers and businesses alike is uncertain and may not occur as quickly as we expect, or at all. Our efforts to provide advertisers more value for their money may include lowering prices while making significant investments in product development. We cannot guarantee that any resulting increase in demand for our products or improvement in retention will offset lower prices or otherwise generate sufficient revenue to justify our investments. Our plans to leverage AI in our product initiatives and business operations also pose particular risks to our business, as further detailed below. Certain of our past strategic decisions may also continue to impact our opportunities and long-term prospects. For example, we wound down our international sales and marketing operations in 2016 and reallocated the associated resources primarily to our U.S. and Canadian markets. While our decision to focus our sales and marketing resources primarily on the United States and Canada has resulted in some cost savings, it also limited the markets from which we generate revenue and affects our ability to expand internationally in the future. Our continued growth depends on our ability to further expand our U.S. and Canadian business for the foreseeable future; however, our business in these markets is in a relatively late stage of development, and further expansion may not yield similar results. If we are not able to develop these markets as we expect, or if we fail to address the needs of those markets, our business will be harmed. If traffic to or user engagement on our platform declines, our revenue, business and operating results may be harmed. We derive a substantial majority of our revenue based on our users engagement with the ads that we display. Because traffic to and user engagement on our platform together determine the number of ad clicks we are able to deliver, affect the value of those ads to businesses and support the content creation that drives further traffic, our ability to attract, retain and engage visitors on our platform is critical to our business and financial success. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations and declines in our traffic from time to time for a variety of reasons. For example, because a substantial majority of our traffic goes to our RR&O categories and RR&O traffic is particularly sensitive to changes in consumer confidence levels, our overall traffic levels generally fluctuate with macroeconomic conditions. We believe that the current uncertain and inflationary economic environment had a negative impact on our RR&O traffic in 2024, offsetting modest growth in Services traffic and contributing to low single-digit year-over-year growth in our web traffic metrics and a year-over-year decrease in app unique devices in 2024. While we cannot predict the remaining duration of the current adverse macroeconomic conditions or the duration or magnitude of their impact on our traffic, we expect RR&O traffic to remain challenged in 2025. In addition, we have historically benefited from the integration of our content into Apple Maps driving a significant amount of traffic to our website and downloads of our application. However, the volume of traffic and app downloads from this source has declined following certain changes to the display of our content in Apple Maps and it may continue to decline in the future. Other factors that could adversely affect our traffic and user engagement include, but are not limited to: our reliance on Internet search engines; 18 Table of Contents other adverse macroeconomic conditions and their negative impact on consumer spending at local businesses; if users have difficulty installing, updating or otherwise accessing our platform as a result of actions by us or third parties that we rely on to distribute our products, such as application marketplaces and device manufacturers; if users engage with other products, services or activities as an alternative to our platform; if we fail to introduce new and improved products or features that users find engaging, or we introduce new products or features that do not effectively address consumer needs or otherwise alienate consumers; the quantity and quality of the content contributed by our users, as well as the perceived distribution of such content across the categories of businesses on our platform; increasing competition in the market for information regarding local businesses; our ability to manage and prioritize information to ensure users are presented with content that is relevant and helpful to them, including through the effective operation of our automated recommendation software; technical or other problems that negatively impact the availability and reliability of our platform or otherwise affect the user experience, including as a result of infrastructure performance problems and security breaches; if users believe that their experience is diminished as a result of the decisions we make with respect to the frequency, relevance and prominence of the advertising we display; the adoption of any laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of our platform or the Internet in general, such as the repeal of Internet neutrality regulations in the United States; any actions taken by companies with significant market power in the broadband and Internet marketplace that degrade, disrupt or increase the cost of user access to our products and services; and if we do not maintain our brand image or our reputation is damaged. As a result of these dynamics, as well as the maturation of our business and our high penetration rates in most major geographic markets within the United States and Canada, we generally expect our traffic to continue fluctuating and decrease in certain periods going forward. Should our traffic growth rate slow or decline, our business and financial performance will become increasingly dependent on driving user engagement on our platform and with the ads that we display, which we may not do successfully. We rely on Internet search engines and application marketplaces to drive traffic to our platform, certain providers of which offer products and services that compete directly with our products. If links to our applications and website are not displayed prominently, traffic to our platform could decline and our business would be adversely affected. We rely heavily on Internet search engines, such as Google, to drive traffic to our platform through their unpaid search results and on application marketplaces, such as Apples App Store and Googles Play, to drive downloads of our applications. If they fail to drive sufficient traffic to our platform, we may need to increase our marketing spend to acquire additional traffic. We cannot assure you that the value we ultimately derive from any such additional traffic would exceed the cost of acquisition, and the resulting increase in marketing expense may in turn harm our operating results. For example, despite our 2024 initiative to acquire Services projects through paid search resulting in an increase in projects, more ad clicks and lower average CPCs than in the prior year, these improvements did not drive our desired returns in advertiser retention or ad budget increases. The amount of traffic we attract from search engines is due in large part to how and where information from and links to our website are displayed on search engine result pages. The display, including rankings, of unpaid search results can be affected by a number of factors, many of which are not in our direct control, and may change frequently. Search engines have made changes in the past to their ranking algorithms, methodologies and design layouts that have reduced the prominence of links to our platform and negatively impacted our traffic, and we expect they will continue to make such changes from time to time in the future. We may not know how or otherwise be in a position to influence search results or our treatment in application marketplaces. With respect to search results in particular, even when search engines announce the details of their 19 Table of Contents methodologies, their parameters may change from time to time, be poorly defined or be inconsistently interpreted. For example, Google previously announced that the rankings of sites showing certain types of app install interstitials could be penalized on its mobile search results pages. While we believe the type of interstitial we currently use is not being penalized, we cannot guarantee that Google will not unexpectedly penalize our app install interstitials, causing links to our mobile website to be featured less prominently in Googles mobile search results and harming traffic to our platform as a result. In some instances, search engine companies and application marketplaces may change their displays or rankings in order to promote their own competing products or services or the products or services of one or more of our competitors. For example, Google has integrated its local product offering with certain of its products, including search and maps. The resulting promotion of Googles own competing products ahead of its web search results has negatively impacted the prominence of links to our platform. Because Google in particular is the most significant source of traffic to our website, our success depends on our ability to maintain a prominent presence in search results for queries regarding local businesses on Google. As a result, Googles promotion of its own competing products, or similar actions by Google in the future that have the effect of reducing our prominence or ranking on its search results such as its incorporation of AI-generated responses to search queries above its web search results could have a substantial negative effect on our business and results of operations. Similarly, Apple, Google or other marketplace operators may make changes to their marketplaces, technical requirements or policies that make access to our products more difficult, reduce the prominence or rank of our applications within marketplaces, require us to change our current practices or make it more difficult for us to provide effective advertising tools to businesses on our platform. For example, Google now requires that apps that allow account creation must provide users with an option to delete their accounts and associated data directly within the app or through an online portal. Google has also updated their policies around data use and disclosures, including by requiring that apps limit certain data collection and use unless it is consistent with the applications core use case. If application marketplaces change their policies or interpretations of their policies in a manner that adversely impacts the way in which we offer our services, or how we or our partners collect, use and share data from users, our ability to maintain and expand our base of advertisers will be harmed. However, if we do not comply with these requirements, we could lose access to the app store and users, and our business would be harmed. For example, on multiple occasions in recent years, Apple and Google have required us to provide more information and make changes to our applications or app disclosures based on new policies or new interpretations of existing policies. Although our apps have remained available in the Apple and Google app stores, resolving these issues was time consuming and required additional expenditures. We cannot guarantee that similar issues will not arise again in the future or that, if they do, we would be able to resolve them at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. We rely on the performance of highly skilled personnel, and if we are unable to attract, retain and motivate well-qualified employees, our business could be harmed. We believe our success has depended, and continues to depend, on the efforts and talents of our employees, including our senior management team, our product and engineering teams, marketing professionals and advertising sales staff. All of our U.S. employees, including all but one of our executive officers, are at-will employees, which means they may terminate their employment relationship with us at any time, and their knowledge of our business and industry would be extremely difficult to replace. Any changes in our senior management team in particular, even in the ordinary course of business, may be disruptive to our business. While we seek to manage these transitions carefully, including by establishing strong processes and procedures and succession planning, such changes may result in a loss of institutional knowledge and cause disruptions to our business. If our senior management team fails to work together effectively or execute our plans and strategies on a timely basis as a result of management turnover or otherwise, our business could be harmed. Our ability to execute on our key strategic initiatives depends on our continuing ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain highly qualified and skilled employees while maintaining the beneficial aspects of our company culture, which may be more difficult with a distributed workforce. Qualified individuals are in high demand and we expect to continue to face significant competition from other companies in hiring such personnel. In recent years, we have undertaken a significant shift in our compensation mix away from equity toward cash, and the incentives to attract, retain and motivate employees provided by our current cash-focused compensation arrangements may not be as effective as our previous compensation arrangements. Identifying, recruiting, training and integrating new hires will require significant time, expense and attention; as a result, we may incur significant costs to attract them before we can validate their productivity. If we fail to manage our hiring needs effectively, our efficiency and ability to meet our forecasts, as well as employee morale, productivity and retention, could suffer, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents We face intense competition in rapidly evolving markets, and expect competition to increase in the future. We compete in rapidly evolving and intensely competitive markets, and we expect competition to intensify further in the future with the emergence of new technologies, such as AI, and market entrants. We face competition for users, content and customers, including from: online search engines and directories, including those incorporating AI technologies; traditional, offline business guides and directories; online and offline providers of consumer ratings, reviews and referrals; social media platforms and features; providers of online marketing and tools for managing and optimizing advertising campaigns; various forms of traditional offline advertising; restaurant reservation and seating tools; food ordering and delivery services; and home and/or local services-related platforms and offerings. Some of our competitors enjoy certain competitive advantages, such as greater name recognition, longer operating histories, substantially greater market share, large existing user bases and substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. These companies may use these advantages to offer products similar to ours at a lower price, develop different products to compete with our current solutions, and respond more quickly and effectively than we do to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or client requirements. For example, competitors have used, and may in the future use, their substantial financial resources to secure positions as the default or exclusive option in web browsers, mobile devices or other potential sources of traffic and app downloads, as Alphabet Inc., the parent company of Google, pays for Google to be the default search engine in Apples Safari browser. In particular, major Internet companies, such as Google and Meta, may be more successful than us in developing and marketing online advertising and other services directly to local businesses, and may leverage their relationships based on other products or services to gain additional share of advertising budgets. Certain competitors could also use strong or dominant positions in one or more markets to gain competitive advantage against us in areas in which we operate, including by: integrating review platforms, local offerings or other competitive products into products they control, such as search engines, web browsers or mobile device operating systems; leveraging their control of products to induce third parties to preference products that compete with ours; making acquisitions; changing their unpaid search result rankings to preference or promote their own products; refusing to enter into or renew licenses on which we depend; limiting or denying our access to advertising measurement or delivery systems; limiting our ability to target or measure the effectiveness of ads; or making access to our platform more difficult. These risks may be exacerbated by the trend in recent years toward consolidation among online media companies, potentially allowing our larger competitors to offer bundled or integrated products that feature alternatives to our platform. To compete effectively, we must continue to invest significant resources in product development to enhance user experience and engagement, as well as sales and marketing to expand our base of advertisers. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully for users and customers against existing or new competitors, and failure to do so could result in loss of existing users, reduced revenue, increased marketing expenses or diminished brand strength, any of which could harm our business. We rely on third-party service providers and strategic partners for many aspects of our business, and any failure to maintain these relationships could harm our business. We rely on relationships with various third parties to grow our business, including strategic partners and technology and content providers. For example, we rely on third parties for data about local businesses, mapping functionality, payment processing, information technology and systems, network infrastructure and administrative software solutions. We also rely on partnership integrations for various transactions available through Yelp, including Grubhub for food-ordering services. Identifying, negotiating and maintaining relationships with third parties require significant time and resources, as does integrating their data, services and technologies onto our platform. This may divert the attention of our management and employees from other aspects of our business operations, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to realize the intended benefits of any given partnership. 21 Table of Contents It is possible that third-party providers and strategic partners may not be able to devote the resources we expect to the relationships. We may also have competing interests and obligations with respect to certain of our partners, which may make it difficult to maintain, grow or maximize the benefit for each partnership. For example, we have historically benefited from the integration of our content into Apple Maps driving a significant amount of traffic to our website and downloads of our application. If Apple were to offer products competitive with ours, such as local business reviews, our relationship with Apple would be negatively impacted and our longstanding partnership may be difficult to maintain as a result. Although traffic and app downloads driven by Apple Maps decreased following certain changes to the display of our content in Apple Maps, if our partnership with Apple ended, traffic to our platform and our business would be harmed. Similarly, our entry into the online reservations space with our acquisition of SeatMe, Inc. in 2013 put us in competition with OpenTable, which led to the end of our partnership with OpenTable in 2015. If our relationships with our partners and providers deteriorate, we could suffer increased costs and delays in our ability to provide consumers and advertisers with content or similar services. As in the case of the expiration or termination of any of our agreements with third-party providers, transitioning from one partner or provider to another could subject us to operational delays and inefficiencies and we may not be able to replace the services provided to us in a timely manner or on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. In addition, we exercise limited control over our third-party partners and vendors, which makes us vulnerable to any errors, interruptions or delays in their operations. If these third parties experience any service disruptions, financial distress or other business disruption, or difficulties meeting our requirements or standards, it could make it difficult for us to operate some aspects of our business. For example, we rely on AWS cloud computing infrastructure to host our website, mobile app and many of the internal tools we use to operate our business. Any significant disruption or limitation of our access to or other interference with our use of AWS would negatively impact our operations and business, including potentially causing harm to our reputation, results of operations and financial results. Any transition of the cloud services currently provided by AWS to another provider could cause us to incur significant time and expense, and any unplanned transition could also disrupt or degrade our ability to deliver our products and services. Similarly, the actions of our partners may affect our brand if users or customers do not have a positive experience interacting with or through them. For example, if advertisers do not have a positive experience purchasing our advertising products through our resale partners, such as Thryv, or the agency participants in our Yelp Ads Certified Partners Program, they may not continue advertising with us, which would negatively affect our revenue and operating results. Although such partners are contractually obligated to observe certain standards and best practices while selling our advertising products, our ability to ensure their compliance is limited. Any disagreements or disputes with these or other partners about our respective contractual obligations which we have had in the past and may have again from time to time in the future could result in legal proceedings or negatively affect our brand and reputation. Any termination of a partnership agreement, including as a result of disagreements or disputes, could also negatively impact our revenue. If we fail to manage our employee operations and organization effectively, our brand, results of operations and business could be harmed. Our employee operations are complex and place substantial demands on management and our operational infrastructure. These operations may be negatively affected by a range of external factors that are not within our control, including catastrophic events, such as earthquakes or fires, and public health crises, such as the COVID-19 pandemic. Such factors may have a substantial impact on employee attendance or productivity, and the extent and duration of their impact are typically uncertain; if we are not able to respond to and manage the impact of such events effectively, our business will be harmed. For example, our rapid and broad-based shift to a remote working environment in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic added to the complexity of our employee operations by creating productivity, connectivity, security and oversight challenges. While we believe these challenges have been addressed, we expect challenges to continue to arise as we navigate uncertain political and economic environments, incorporate technological innovations into our business and otherwise respond to external factors going forward. Addressing these challenges could adversely affect our company culture and will require the attention of our executive team and other key employees, which could adversely affect our business. As our business matures, we make periodic changes and adjustments to our organization in response to various internal and external considerations, including market opportunities, the competitive landscape, new and enhanced products, acquisitions, sales performance, availability of employee talent and costs. In some instances, these changes have resulted in a temporary lack of focus and reduced productivity, which may occur again in connection with any future changes to our organization and may negatively affect our results of operations. If we are unable to adapt quickly and effectively to changes or adjustments to our organization, our business will be harmed. We may also need to improve our operational, financial and management systems and processes to support our large and distributed workforce, which may require significant capital expenditures and allocation of valuable management and employee 22 Table of Contents resources, as well as subject us to the risk of over-expanding our operating infrastructure. For example, it can be difficult to train thousands of sales employees across multiple offices according to the same business standards, practices and laws, and we have been the subject of lawsuits alleging that we have failed to do so. If we fail to scale our operations successfully and increase productivity, the quality of our platform and efficiency of our operations could suffer, which could harm our brand, results of operations and business. Consumers frequently access online services through a variety of platforms other than desktop computers, including mobile devices. If we are unable to operate effectively on such devices or our products for such devices are not compelling, our business could be adversely affected. Consumers frequently access the Internet through devices other than desktop computers, including mobile phones, tablets, handheld computers, voice-assisted speakers, automobiles and television set-top devices. We generate a substantial majority of our revenue from advertising delivered on mobile devices, and anticipate that this will continue to be the case for the foreseeable future. As a result, we must continue to drive adoption of and user engagement on our mobile platform, and on our mobile app in particular, which is less reliant on search results for traffic than our website. If we are unable to drive continued adoption of and engagement on our mobile app, our business may be harmed and we may be unable to decrease our reliance on traffic from Google and other search engines. In order to attract and retain engaged users of our platform on mobile and other alternative devices, the products and services we introduce on such devices must be compelling. However, the functionality and user experience associated with some alternative devices may make the use of our platform and products more difficult than through a desktop computer. For example, devices with small screen sizes or that lack a screen may exacerbate the risks associated with how and where our website is displayed in search results because they display or otherwise present fewer search results than desktop computers. We also expect that the ways in which users engage with our platform will continue to change over time as users increasingly engage via alternative devices. This may make it more difficult to develop products that consumers find useful, may make it more difficult for us to monetize our products and may also negatively affect our content if users do not continue to contribute high-quality content through such devices. Similarly, as new devices and platforms develop, advertiser demand may increase for products that we do not offer or that may alienate our user base, which we must balance against our commitment to prioritizing the quality of user experience over short-term monetization. If we are not able to balance these competing considerations successfully to develop compelling advertising products, advertisers may stop or reduce their advertising with us and we may not be able to generate meaningful revenue from alternative devices despite the expected growth in their usage. As new devices and platforms are continually being released, it is also difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in adapting our products and services and developing competitive new products and services to them, and we may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support and maintenance of such products. Our success will be dependent on the interoperability and compliance of our products with a range of technologies, systems, networks and standards that we do not control, such as mobile operating systems like Android and iOS. For example, in 2021, Apple made certain changes to its products and data use policies in connection with changes to its iOS operating system that reduce our ability to target and measure advertising. While these changes currently impact only a small portion of our advertising business, they could limit our ability to expand the relevant advertising products in the future. We may not be successful in developing products that operate effectively with these technologies, systems, networks and standards or in creating, maintaining and developing relationships with key participants in related industries, some of which may be our competitors. If we experience difficulties or increased costs in integrating our products into alternative devices, or if manufacturers elect not to include our products on their devices, make changes that degrade the functionality of our products, give preferential treatment to competitive products or prevent us from delivering advertising, our user growth and operating results may be harmed. This risk may be exacerbated by the frequency with which users change or upgrade their devices; in the event users choose devices that do not already include or support our platform or do not install our products when they change or upgrade their devices, our traffic and user engagement may be harmed. If we fail to generate, maintain and recommend sufficient content from our users that consumers find relevant, helpful and reliable, our traffic and revenue will be negatively affected. Our success depends on our ability to attract consumer traffic with valuable content, which in turn depends on the quantity and quality of the content provided by our users, as well as consumer perceptions of the relevance, helpfulness and reliability of that content. We may be unable to provide consumers with valuable information if our users do not contribute sufficient content or if our users remove content they previously submitted. For example, users may be unwilling to contribute content as a result 23 Table of Contents of concerns that they may be harassed or sued by the businesses they review, instances of which have occurred in the past and may occur again in the future. Consumers also may not find the content on our platform to be valuable if they do not perceive it as relevant, helpful or reliable. For example, we believe consumers consider AI-created reviews to be less trustworthy than reviews written by reviewers themselves, and we cannot guarantee that we will identify and remove all such reviews. Similarly, we do not phase out or remove dated reviews, and consumers may view older reviews as less relevant or reliable than more recent reviews. If the high concentration of reviews in our restaurants and shopping categories creates a perception that our platform is primarily limited to these categories, consumers may not believe that we can provide them with helpful information about businesses in other categories and seek that information elsewhere. Our automated recommendation software is a critical part of our efforts to provide consumers with relevant, helpful and reliable content. However, although we have designed our technology to avoid recommending content that we believe to be biased, unreliable or otherwise unhelpful, we cannot guarantee that our efforts will be successful, or that each of the recommended reviews available on our platform at any given time is useful or reliable. If our automated software does not recommend helpful content or recommends unhelpful content, consumers may reduce or stop their use of our platform. Even if we are successful in our efforts to generate, maintain and recommend valuable content, our ability to attract consumer traffic may nonetheless be harmed if consumers can find equivalent content through other services. From time to time, other companies copy information from our platform, or from other sources on the Internet that may have obtained information from our platform, without our permission, including through website scraping, robots or other means, and publish or aggregate it with other information for their own benefit. This may make them more competitive and may decrease the likelihood that consumers will visit our platform to find the local businesses and information they seek; it may also negatively impact our ability to license content from our platform. Because web scraping is a common method for gathering data for use with AI models, the increasing prevalence of products incorporating AI has exacerbated this risk; we have discovered AI-powered products using content originally from our platform without our permission and expect we will continue to do so from time to time in the future. We may not be able to detect this third-party conduct in a timely manner and, even if we could, may not be able to prevent it. In some cases, particularly in the case of third parties operating outside of the United States, our available remedies may be inadequate to protect us against such conduct. Our business depends on a strong brand. Maintaining, protecting and enhancing our brand requires significant resources and our efforts to do so may not be successful. We have developed a strong brand that we believe has contributed significantly to the success of our business. Maintaining, protecting and enhancing the Yelp brand are critical to expanding our base of users and advertisers and increasing the frequency with which they use our solutions. If we fail to maintain and enhance our brand successfully, or if we incur excessive expenses in this effort, our business and financial results may be adversely affected. Our ability to do so will depend largely on our ability to maintain business owner and consumer trust in the integrity of our products and in the quality of the user content and other information found on our platform, which we may not do successfully. Although we dedicate significant resources to these goals, we may fail to respond to user or business owner concerns expeditiously or in a manner they perceive to be appropriate, which could erode confidence in our brand. For example, some consumers and businesses have alternately expressed concern that our technology either recommends too many reviews, thereby recommending some reviews that may not be legitimate, or too few reviews, thereby not recommending some reviews that may be legitimate. The actions of our partners, over whom we have limited, if any, control, may also affect the perceived integrity of our brand if users or advertisers do not have a positive experience interacting with or through them. In addition, our website and mobile app serve as a platform for expression by our users, and third parties or the public at large may attribute the political or other sentiments expressed by users on our platform to us, which could harm our reputation. Negative publicity about our company, including our technology, sales practices, personnel, customer service, litigation, strategic plans or political activities, could also diminish confidence in our brand and the use of our products. Certain media outlets have previously reported allegations, although untrue, that we manipulate our reviews, rankings and ratings in favor of our advertisers and against non-advertisers. Although we have taken action to combat this perception, our reputation and brand, and our traffic and business in turn, may suffer if negative publicity about our company persists or if users otherwise perceive that our content is manipulated or biased. Allegations and complaints regarding our business practices, and any resulting negative publicity, may also result in increased regulatory scrutiny of our company. In addition to requiring management time and attention, any regulatory inquiry or investigation could itself result in further negative publicity regardless of its merit or outcome. 24 Table of Contents Trademarks are also an important element of our brand and require substantial investments to maintain, which may not be successful. We have faced in the past, and may face in the future, oppositions from third parties to our applications to register key trademarks. If we are unsuccessful in defending against these oppositions, our trademark applications may be denied. Whether or not our trademark applications are denied, third parties may claim that our trademarks infringe their rights. As a result, we could be forced to pay significant settlement costs or cease the use of these trademarks and associated elements of our brand. Doing so could harm our brand recognition and adversely affect our business. Conversely, if we are unable to prevent others from misusing our brand or passing themselves off as being endorsed or affiliated with us, it could harm our reputation and our business could suffer. For example, we have encountered instances of reputation management companies falsely representing themselves as being affiliated with us when soliciting customers; this practice could be contributing to the perception that business owners can pay to manipulate reviews, rankings and ratings. We may acquire or invest in other companies or technologies, which could divert our managements attention, result in additional dilution to our stockholders, or otherwise disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. We may also be unable to realize the expected benefits and synergies of any acquisitions or investments. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to expand our product offerings and grow our business in response to changing technologies, user and advertiser demands, and competitive pressures. In some circumstances, we may determine to do so through the acquisition of complementary businesses or technologies rather than through internal development. For example, in November 2024, we acquired RepairPal to expand our offerings in the auto services category. Similarly, we may pursue investments in privately held companies in furtherance of our strategic objectives. We have limited experience as a company in the complex processes of acquiring and investing in businesses and technologies. The pursuit of potential future acquisitions or investments may divert the attention of management and in many cases causes us to incur expenses in identifying, investigating and pursuing transactions, whether or not they are consummated. If we do not complete an announced strategic transaction, or we do not complete it within the time frame we anticipate, our business and financial results could be harmed. Acquisitions that are consummated could result in dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, which could adversely affect our results of operations. The incurrence of debt in particular could result in increased fixed obligations or include covenants or other restrictions that would impede our ability to manage our operations. In addition, any transactions we announce could be viewed negatively by users, businesses or investors. We may also fail to accurately forecast the financial impact of a transaction, including tax and accounting charges. We have in the past and may in the future discover liabilities or deficiencies associated with the companies or assets we acquire or invest in that we did not identify in advance, which may result in significant unanticipated costs or losses. The effectiveness of our due diligence review and our ability to evaluate the results of such due diligence are dependent upon the accuracy and completeness of statements and disclosures made by the companies we acquire or their representatives, as well as the limited amount of time in which acquisitions are executed. In order to realize the expected benefits and synergies of any acquisition that is consummated, we must meet a number of significant challenges that may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures, including: integrating the operations, strategies, services, sites and technologies of an acquired company; managing the post-transaction business effectively; retaining and assimilating the employees of an acquired company; retaining existing customers and strategic partners, and minimizing disruption to existing relationships, as a result of any integration of new personnel or departure of existing personnel; difficulties in the assimilation of corporate cultures; implementing and retaining uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems; and addressing risks related to the business of an acquired company that may continue to impact the business following the acquisition. Any inability to integrate services, sites and technologies, operations or personnel in an efficient and timely manner could harm our results of operations. Transition activities are complex and require significant time and resources, and we may not manage the process successfully, particularly if we are managing multiple transactions concurrently. Our ability to integrate complex acquisitions is unproven, particularly with respect to companies that have significant operations or that develop products with which we do not have prior experience. We expect to invest resources to support any future acquisitions, which 25 Table of Contents will result in ongoing operating expenses and may divert resources and management attention from other areas of our business. We cannot assure you that these investments will be successful. Even if we are able to integrate the operations of any acquired company successfully, we may not realize the full benefits of synergies, cost savings, innovation and operational efficiencies that may be possible from the transaction, or we may not achieve these benefits within a reasonable period of time. Similarly, investments in private companies are inherently risky in that such companies are typically at an early stage of development, may have no or limited revenues, may not be or may never become profitable, may not be able to secure additional funding, or their technologies, services or products may not be successfully developed or introduced into the market. The success of any such investment is typically dependent on a liquidity event, such as a public offering or acquisition. If any company in which we invest decreases in value, we could lose all or part of our investment. These risks would be heightened to the extent any such investment is a minority investment in which we have limited management or operational control over the business. We are committed to providing a great consumer experience, which may cause us to forgo short-term gains and advertising revenue. We base many of our decisions on our commitment to providing the consumers who use our platform with a great experience. In the past, we have forgone, and we may in the future forgo, certain expansion or revenue opportunities that we believe excessively degrade the consumer experience, even if such decisions negatively impact our results of operations in the short term. For example, in 2015, we phased out the brand advertising products we offered at that time in part because demand in the brand advertising market had shifted toward products disruptive to the consumer experience. Any decisions we make that prioritize consumers may negatively impact our relationship with existing or prospective advertisers. For example, unless we believe that a review violates our terms of service, such as reviews that contain hate speech or bigotry, we will allow the review to remain on our platform, even if the business disputes its accuracy. Certain advertisers may therefore perceive us as an impediment to their success as a result of reviews and ratings that are critical of them. This practice could result in a loss of advertisers, which in turn could harm our results of operations. However, we believe that this approach has been essential to our success in attracting users and increasing the frequency with which they use our platform. As a result, we believe this approach has served the long-term interests of our company and our stockholders and will continue to do so in the future. Our aspirations and disclosures related to ESG matters expose us to risks that could adversely affect our reputation and performance. Many governments, regulators, investors, employees, customers and other stakeholders are increasingly focused on environmental, social and governance (ESG) considerations relating to businesses, including climate change and greenhouse gas emissions, data privacy, human and civil rights, and diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI). We make statements about goals and initiatives related to ESG matters through information provided on our website, press releases and other communications. These statements reflect our current plans and aspirations and are not guarantees that we will be able to achieve them. In addition, some stakeholders may disagree with our goals and initiatives. Our failure, or perceived failure, to accomplish or accurately track and report on our goals, further our initiatives, adhere to our public statements, or comply with federal, state and international laws that relate to ESG could adversely affect our reputation, financial performance and growth, and expose us to increased scrutiny from the investment community as well as enforcement authorities and private litigation. Further, if our ESG practices do not meet evolving investor or other stakeholder expectations and standards, then our reputation, ability to attract or retain employees, and attractiveness as an investment, business partner, acquiror or service provider could be negatively impacted. For example, anti-ESG sentiment has gained momentum across the United States in recent years, with several states and policymakers having proposed or enacted anti-ESG policies, legislation or initiatives. In addition, the Trump Administration recently issued executive orders targeting certain DEI initiatives in the private sector. These or other anti-ESG- and anti-DEI-related policies, legislation, initiatives, legal decisions and scrutiny could result in investigations, litigation or enforcement actions against us by governments, regulators or others. Responding to and resolving such actions may require significant time and resources, regardless of their merit, and may result in us sustaining reputational harm. Standards for tracking and reporting ESG matters continue to evolve. Our use of disclosure frameworks and standards, and the interpretation or application of those frameworks and standards, may change from time to time or differ from those of others. This may result in a lack of consistent or meaningful comparative data from period to period or between Yelp and other companies in the same industry. In addition, our processes and controls may not comply with evolving standards for identifying, measuring and reporting ESG metrics, including ESG-related disclosures that may be required of businesses of our size by regulators, and such standards may change over time, which could result in significant revisions to our current goals, reported progress in achieving such goals or ability to achieve such goals in the future. 26 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Technology and Intellectual Property Our business is dependent on the uninterrupted and proper operation of our technology and network infrastructure. Any significant disruption in our service could damage our reputation, result in a potential loss of users and engagement and adversely affect our results of operations. It is important to our success that users in all geographies in which we operate be able to access our platform at all times. If our platform is unavailable when users attempt to access it or it does not load as quickly as they expect, users may seek other services to obtain the information for which they are looking, and may not return to our platform as often in the future, or at all. This would negatively impact our ability to attract users and advertisers and increase the frequency with which they use our platform. We have previously experienced, and may experience in the future, service disruptions, outages and other performance problems. Such performance problems may be due to a variety of factors, including those set forth below; however, in some instances, we may not be able to identify the cause or causes of these performance problems within an acceptable period of time. Infrastructure Changes and Capacity Constraints. We may experience capacity constraints due to an overwhelming number of users accessing our platform simultaneously. It may become increasingly difficult to maintain and improve the availability of our platform, especially during peak usage times, as our products become more complex and our traffic increases. Human or Software Errors. Our products and services are highly technical and complex, and may contain errors or vulnerabilities that could result in unanticipated downtime for our platform. Users may also use our products in unanticipated ways that may cause a disruption in service for other users attempting to access our platform. We may encounter such difficulties more frequently as we acquire companies and incorporate their technologies into our service. Service Providers. We rely on a number of providers of infrastructure and software services, including AWS. Although we use these systems and services in a manner designed to achieve high reliability and minimize risk, large-scale outages affecting our service providers could negatively impact our ability to maintain the full functionality of our systems. Catastrophic Occurrences. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, fires, floods, power losses, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks and similar events. Acts of terrorism, which may be targeted at metropolitan areas that have higher population densities than rural areas, could cause disruptions in our or our advertisers businesses or the economy as a whole. While our distributed operations may help to reduce this risk in the context of local or regional catastrophic events, coordinating a response to a larger-scale event could be complex and we may not manage it successfully. We may not have sufficient protection or recovery plans in certain circumstances, such as a large-scale outage affecting our major service providers, such as AWS, and our business interruption insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. Our disaster recovery program contemplates transitioning our platform and data to a backup center in the event of a catastrophe. Although this program is functional, if our primary data center shuts down, there will be a period of time that our services will remain shut down while the transition to the back-up data center takes place. During this time, our platform may be unavailable in whole or in part to our users. We expect to continue to make significant investments to maintain and improve the availability of our platform and to enable rapid releases of new features and products. To the extent that we do not address capacity constraints, upgrade our systems as needed and continually develop our technology and network architecture to accommodate actual and anticipated changes in technology in a cost-effective manner, while at the same time maintaining the reliability and integrity of our systems and infrastructure, our business and operating results may be harmed. If our security measures, or those of the third parties with whom we work, are compromised, or if our platform is subject to attacks that degrade or deny the ability of users to access our content, users may curtail or stop use of our platform. Our industry is prone to cyber-attacks by third parties seeking unauthorized access to our data or users data, or to disrupt our ability to provide our services. Any failure to prevent or mitigate security breaches could expose us to the risk of loss or misuse of private user and business information, which could result in liability and litigation. We may be a particularly compelling target for such attacks as a result of our brand recognition. 27 Table of Contents Computer viruses, break-ins, malware, social engineering (particularly spear phishing attacks), attempts to overload servers with denial-of-service attacks, credential stuffing attacks, ransomware attacks, or other similar attacks and disruptions from unauthorized use of computer systems have become more prevalent in our industry. Ransomware attacks in particular are becoming increasingly common and could lead to significant interruptions in our operations, ability to provide our products and services, loss of sensitive data, reputational harm and diversion of funds. Extortion payments may mitigate the negative impacts of a ransomware attack, but we may be unwilling or unable to make such payments for various reasons, including due to applicable laws or regulations prohibiting such payments. Our distributed and international workforce could impact the security of our systems, as well as our ability to protect against attacks and detect and respond to them quickly. Cyber-attacks and other attempts to gain unauthorized access to our computer systems have occurred on our systems in the past and are expected to occur periodically on our systems in the future. For example, we have been the target of distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks and our employees are subject to phishing attempts from time to time. Although none of the disruptions we have experienced to date have had a material impact on our business, any future disruptions could lead to interruptions, delays or website shutdowns, causing loss of critical data or the unauthorized disclosure or use of personal information or confidential information. Even if we experience no significant shutdown or no critical data is lost, obtained or misused in connection with an attack, the occurrence of such an attack or the perception that we are vulnerable to such attacks may harm our reputation, degrade the user experience, cause loss of confidence in our products or result in financial harm to us. We also face risks associated with security incidents, including security breaches, affecting our third-party partners and service providers. Our ability to monitor these third parties information security practices is limited and they may not have adequate information security measures in place. A security incident or breach at any such third party could be perceived by consumers, businesses or others as a security incident or breach relating to our systems and result in negative publicity, damage to our reputation and expose us to other losses. While we may be entitled to damages if such third parties fail to satisfy their privacy or security-related obligations to us, any such award may be unrecoverable or insufficient to cover our damages. Future or past business transactions (such as acquisitions or integrations) could expose us to additional cybersecurity risks and vulnerabilities, as our systems could be negatively affected by vulnerabilities present in acquired or integrated entities systems and technologies.Furthermore, we may discover security issues that were not found during due diligence of such acquired or integrated entities, and it may be difficult to integrate companies into our information technology environment and security program. Cyber-attacks continue to evolve in sophistication and volume, and may be inherently difficult to detect. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect our data and prevent data loss and other security breaches, the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently, often are not recognized until launched against a target or long after, and may originate from sources that cannot be meaningfully deterred or prosecuted, such as sophisticated nation states and nation-state-supported actors. As a result, these preventative measures may not be adequate and we cannot assure you that they will provide absolute security. Any or all of these issues could negatively impact our ability to attract new users, deter current users from returning to our platform, cause existing or potential advertisers to cancel their contracts, or subject us to third-party lawsuits or other liabilities. For example, we work with third-party vendors to process credit card payments by users and businesses, and are subject to payment card association operating rules. Compliance with applicable operating rules, however, will not necessarily prevent illegal or improper use of our payment systems, or the theft, loss or misuse of payment information. If our security measures fail to prevent fraudulent credit card transactions and protect payment information adequately as a result of employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, or we fail to comply with the applicable operating rules, we could be liable to the users and businesses for their losses, as well as the vendor under our agreement with it, and be subject to fines and higher transaction fees. Our vendor agreements may not contain limitations of liability, and even where they do, there can be no assurance that such provisions will be sufficient to protect us from liabilities, damages, or claims related to our data privacy and security obligations. We cannot be sure that our insurance coverage will be adequate or sufficient to protect us from or to mitigate liabilities arising out of privacy and security matters, that such coverage will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that such coverage will pay future claims. In addition, government authorities could also initiate legal or regulatory actions against us in connection with such incidents, which could cause us to incur significant expense and liability or result in orders or consent decrees forcing us to modify our business practices. Applicable data privacy and security obligations may require us, or we may voluntarily choose, to notify relevant stakeholders, including affected individuals, customers, regulators, and investors, of security incidents, or to take other actions, such as providing credit monitoring and identity theft protection services.Such disclosures and related 28 Table of Contents actions can be costly, and the disclosure or the failure to comply with such applicable requirements could lead to adverse consequences. We are increasingly using AI technologies on our platform and in our business operations, which involves significant risks and may not provide the expected benefits to our business. We are increasingly incorporating AI and AI-generated content into our platform, products and services, including using it to recommend relevant content to our users, facilitate transactions, summarize content, and enhance our advertising products and systems, among other uses. We are also increasingly using AI tools to support our business operations, such as AI software coding assistants and AI features of other tools used in our operations, including tools used in third-party risk management, security and human resources software. There are significant risks involved in developing and deploying AI in our products and services and using AI in our business operations, and there can be no assurance that our usage of AI will enhance our products or benefit our business. For example, creating AI-enabled products is complex and they may contain errors or inadequacies that are not easily detectable, which may result in these products not operating properly or as we expect them to. If the recommendations, analyses or other content incorporated into or produced by such products are (or are perceived to be) deficient, biased or inaccurate, we could be subject to competitive harm, potential legal liability and brand or reputational harm. Similarly, if the AI-assisted tools we use in our operations do not operate properly or as we expect them to, our business and operations could also be negatively impacted. For example, AI technologies may create outputs that appear correct but are factually inaccurate, flawed or biased. If we rely on such inaccurate, flawed or biased output, employee efficiency may be reduced, security vulnerabilities may be introduced into our systems, we may take actions that do not support our business goals, do not comply with our policies or applicable law, or our business and operations may be otherwise disrupted or harmed. Sensitive information of ours, our customers, our employees or others could also be improperly disclosed as a result of our or our vendors use of generative AI. Any or all of these risks could result in competitive harm, potential legal liability, and brand or reputational harm. In addition, certain legal issues related to use of AI technologies and AI-generated content, including issues arising under copyright law, have not been fully addressed by U.S. courts or by federal or state laws or regulations. This uncertainty exposes us to risks with respect to both our ability to adequately protect the intellectual property underlying our AI technologies and the content generated by such technologies, as well as our inadvertent infringement of third-party intellectual property. It is also uncertain how existing laws granting protections to online services for display of third-party content, such as CDA 230, will apply to AI-generated content. If we are unable to mitigate these risks, or if we incur excessive expenses in our efforts to do so, our reputation, business operating results and financial condition may be harmed. Failure to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights could harm our business and results of operations. We regard the protection of our trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks, patent rights and domain names as critical to our success. In particular, we must maintain, protect and enhance the Yelp brand. We strive to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on federal, state and common law rights, as well as contractual restrictions. We pursue the registration of our domain names, copyrights, trademarks and service marks in the United States and in certain jurisdictions abroad. While we have pursued a number of patent applications, we currently have only limited patent protection for our core business, which may make it more difficult to assert certain of our intellectual property rights. We typically enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, as well as confidentiality agreements with parties with whom we conduct business in order to limit access to, and disclosure and use of, our proprietary information. However, these contractual arrangements and the other steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent the misappropriation or disclosure of our proprietary information or deter independent development of similar technologies by others, which may diminish the value of our brand and other intangible assets and allow competitors to more effectively mimic our products and services. Effective trade secret, copyright, trademark, patent and domain name protection is expensive to develop and maintain, both in terms of initial and ongoing registration requirements and expenses and the costs of defending our rights. Seeking protection for our intellectual property is expensive, time consuming and may not be successful; accordingly, we may determine not to seek such protections for all of our intellectual property or in every location in which we operate. Litigation may become necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights claimed by others. For example, we may incur significant costs in enforcing our trademarks against those who attempt to imitate our Yelp brand and our copyrights against infringement. Any litigation of this nature, regardless of outcome or merit, 29 Table of Contents could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical resources, any of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Some of our products contain open source software, each of which may pose particular risks to our proprietary software and solutions. We have used open source software in our products and will use open source software in the future. From time to time, we may face claims from third parties claiming ownership of, or demanding release of, the open source software or derivative works that we developed using such software (which could include our proprietary source code), or otherwise seeking to enforce the terms of the applicable open source license. These claims could result in litigation and could require us to purchase a costly license or cease offering the implicated solutions unless and until we can re-engineer them to avoid infringement. This re-engineering process could require significant additional research and development resources. In addition to risks related to license requirements, use of certain open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software because open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the origin of the software. Any of these risks could be difficult to eliminate or manage, and, if not addressed, could have a negative effect on our business and operating results. We may be unable to continue to use the domain names that we use in our business, or prevent third parties from acquiring and using domain names that infringe on, are similar to, or otherwise decrease the value of our brand or our trademarks or service marks. We have registered domain names for the websites that we use in our business, such as Yelp.com. If we lose the ability to use a domain name, whether due to trademark claims, failure to renew the applicable registration or any other cause, we may be forced to market our products under a new domain name, which could cause us substantial harm or cause us to incur significant expense in order to purchase rights to the domain name in question. In addition, our competitors and others could attempt to capitalize on our brand recognition by using domain names similar to ours. Domain names similar to ours have been registered by others in the United States and elsewhere. We may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring and using domain names that infringe on, are similar to or otherwise decrease the value of our brand or our trademarks or service marks. Protecting and enforcing our rights in our domain names may require litigation, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of managements attention. Risks Related to Our Financial Statements and Tax Matters We expect a number of factors to cause our operating results to fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis, which may make it difficult to predict our future performance. Our operating results could vary significantly from period to period as a result of a variety of factors, many of which may be outside of our control. This volatility increases the difficulty in predicting our future performance and means comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. In addition to the other risk factors discussed in this section, factors that may contribute to the volatility of our operating results include: the impact of macroeconomic conditions, including the current uncertain economic environment, as well as the resulting effect on consumer spending at local businesses and the level of advertising spending by local businesses; changes in advertiser budgets or their ability to pay for our products, including due to the impact of adverse macroeconomic conditions; changes in consumer behavior with respect to local businesses, such as increased demand for food delivery; changes in the products we offer and the market acceptance of those products and online advertising solutions generally; changes or updates to our business strategies; changes in our pricing policies and terms of contracts, whether initiated by us or as a result of competition; changes in the markets in which we operate, such as the wind down of our international sales and marketing operations to focus on our core markets of the United States and Canada; cyclicality and seasonality, which has become more pronounced since we transitioned to non-term contracts and may become further pronounced as our growth rate slows; the effects of changes in search engine placement and prominence; 30 Table of Contents the adoption of any laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of the Internet, such as the repeal of Internet neutrality regulations in the United States; the success of our sales and marketing efforts; adverse litigation judgments, settlements or other litigation-related costs, including the costs associated with investigating and defending claims; interruptions in service and any related impact on our reputation; changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities; new accounting pronouncements or changes in existing accounting standards and practices; and the effects of natural or man-made catastrophic events. We rely on data from internal tools to calculate our performance metrics. Real or perceived inaccuracies in such metrics may harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. We track our key performance metrics with internal tools, which are not independently verified by any third party. Our internal tools have a number of limitations and our methodologies for tracking these metrics may change over time, which could result in unexpected changes to our metrics, including key metrics that we report. If the internal tools we use to track these metrics over- or under-count performance or contain algorithm or other technical errors, the data we report may not be accurate and our understanding of certain details of our business may be distorted, which could affect our longer-term strategies. For example, in 2018, we discovered a software error that caused our previously reported claimed local business locations metric to be overstated for the third quarter of 2017 through the first quarter of 2018, and revised them accordingly. Our metrics may also be affected by mobile applications that automatically contact our servers for regular updates with no discernible user action involved; this activity can cause our system to count the device associated with the app as an app unique device in a given period. Although we take steps to exclude such activity and, as a result, do not believe it has had a material impact on our reported metrics, our efforts may not successfully account for all such activity. There are also inherent challenges in measuring usage across our large user base. For example, because our traffic metrics are based on users with unique identifiers, an individual who accesses our website from multiple devices with different identifiers may be counted as multiple unique devices, and multiple individuals who access our website from a shared device with a single identifier may be counted as a single unique device. In addition, although we use technology designed to block low-quality traffic, such as robots, spiders and other software, we may not be able to prevent all such traffic, and such technology may have the effect of blocking some valid traffic. For these and other reasons, the calculations of our desktop unique devices and mobile website unique devices may not accurately reflect the number of people actually visiting our website. We are continually seeking to improve our ability to measure these key metrics, and regularly review our processes to assess potential improvements to their accuracy. For example, as a result of such a review, we updated our methodology for measuring our app unique devices metric to exclude devices that access our mobile app but do not meet a minimum level of engagement with it by viewing a business, performing a search, viewing or submitting content, or other similar interactions. Similarly, the third party on which we previously relied for our web traffic metrics Google Analytics also makes periodic changes and updates to their tools and methodologies. As of July 1, 2024, Google discontinued the Universal Analytics version of its Google Analytics product we previously used, and we now report our web traffic metrics based on internal measurement tools. This change to our web traffic metrics has resulted in inconsistency between new data and previously reported data, which may raise questions about the integrity of our data. Our measures of traffic and other key metrics may differ from estimates published by third parties or from similar metrics of our competitors. In addition, as both the industry in which we operate and our business continue to evolve, so too might the metrics by which we evaluate our business. We may revise or cease reporting metrics if we determine such metrics are no longer accurate, appropriate or relevant measures of our performance. For example, we stopped reporting our claimed local business locations metric and instead disclose the number of active claimed local business locations, which we believe provides a better measure of the number of businesses that represent the highest quality leads available to our local sales force than our claimed local business locations metric. We also phased out our paid advertising accounts metric and replaced it with paid advertising locations, which we believe provides a better measurement of our market penetration. If our users, advertisers, partners and stockholders do not perceive our metrics to be accurate representations, or if we discover material inaccuracies in our metrics, our reputation may be harmed. 31 Table of Contents We have incurred significant operating losses in the past, and we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to maintain profitability. Our failure to achieve an adequate growth rate will adversely affect our business and results of operations. You should not rely on the revenue growth of any prior quarterly or annual period, or the net income we realize in certain periods, as an indication of our future performance. Although our revenues have grown over time, increasing from $12.1 million in 2008 to $1.41 billion in 2024, our revenue growth rate has declined in recent periods as a result of a variety of factors, including the maturation of our business. Moreover, our strategy to grow our business involves significant risks and executing on it may prove more difficult than we currently anticipate. Our revenue has also been significantly negatively impacted as businesses reduced their advertising spending as a result of adverse macroeconomic conditions. Advertiser demand from RR&O businesses was weak throughout 2024, resulting in advertising revenue from RR&O businesses decreasing 3% year over year. We believe the performance of our RR&O categories in 2024 was primarily due to the challenging operating environment businesses in these categories continue to face, including supply chain issues, inflation and its impact on consumer spending, labor shortages and an increased cost of labor. We cannot predict the remaining duration of the current adverse economic conditions or the duration or magnitude of the adverse impact on our revenue; however, we expect the challenges facing RR&O businesses to persist and have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations in 2025. Historically, our costs have increased each year and we expect our costs to increase in future periods as we continue to expend substantial financial resources on: product and feature development; sales and marketing; our technology infrastructure; market development efforts; strategic opportunities, including commercial relationships and acquisitions; our stock repurchase program; and general administration, including legal and accounting expenses related to being a public company. These investments may not result in increased revenue or growth in our business. Our expenses may grow faster than our revenue and may be greater than we anticipate in a particular period or over time. If we are unable to maintain adequate revenue growth and to manage our expenses, we may continue to incur significant losses in the future and may not be able to maintain profitability. We have a limited operating history in an evolving industry, which makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and may increase the risk that we will not be successful. We have a limited operating history at the current scale of our business in an evolving industry that may not develop as expected, if at all. If the demand for connecting consumers and local businesses does not develop as we expect, or if we fail to address the needs of this demand, our business will be harmed. As a result, our historical operating results may not be indicative of our future operating results, making it difficult to assess our future prospects. You should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks and difficulties we may encounter in this rapidly evolving industry, which we may not be able to address successfully. These risks and difficulties include numerous factors, many of which we are unable to predict or are outside of our control, including those discussed elsewhere in these Risk Factors. Failure to address these risks and difficulties adequately could harm our business and cause our operating results to suffer. 32 Table of Contents If we default on our credit obligations, our business, revenue and financial results could be harmed. Our Revolving Credit and Guaranty Agreement, dated April 28, 2023, with certain lenders and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent and collateral agent (the Credit Agreement), provides our lenders with a first-priority lien against substantially all of our domestic assets, including certain domestic intellectual property, and contains financial covenants and other restrictions on our actions that may limit our operational flexibility or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations. It contains a number of covenants that limit our ability to, among other things, incur indebtedness, grant liens, make distributions, pay dividends, repurchase shares, make investments, or engage in transactions with our affiliates, merge or consolidate with other companies, sell material businesses or assets, or license or transfer certain of our intellectual property. We are also required to maintain certain financial covenants. Complying with these covenants may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete against companies who are not subject to such restrictions. If we fail to comply with the covenants under the Credit Agreement, lenders would have a right to, among other things, terminate the commitments to provide additional loans under the facility, enforce any liens on collateral securing the obligations under the facility, declare all outstanding loans and accrued interest and fees to be due and payable, and require us to post cash collateral to be held as security for any reimbursement obligations in respect of any outstanding letters of credit issued under the facility. If any remedies under the facility were exercised, we may not have sufficient cash or be able to borrow sufficient funds to refinance the debt or sell sufficient assets to repay the debt, which could immediately materially and adversely affect our business, cash flows, operations and financial condition. Even if we were able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms or on terms that are acceptable to us. Additionally, the Credit Agreement utilizes Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) or various alternative methods to calculate the amount of accrued interest on any loans. If a published U.S. dollar SOFR is unavailable, the interest rates on our debt indexed to SOFR will be determined using one of the alternative methods, any of which could, if the revolver is drawn, result in interest obligations that are more than the current form, which could have a material adverse effect on our financing costs. If our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to our statements of operations. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill related to our acquisitions to date, and a significant portion of the purchase price of any companies we acquire in the future may be allocated to acquired goodwill and other intangible assets. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP), we review our intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered include declines in our stock price, market capitalization and future cash flow projections. If our acquisitions do not yield expected returns, our stock price declines or any other adverse change in market conditions occurs, a change to the estimation of fair value could result. For example, we performed an impairment test after identifying indicators of impairment during the first quarter of 2020 as a result of COVID-19. While we ultimately recorded only an immaterial impairment charge related to intangible assets as a result of this test, any further adverse changes in our business environment, stock price, market capitalization and future cash flow projections could result in additional impairment charges to our intangible assets or goodwill, particularly if such change impacts any of our critical assumptions or estimates, and may have a negative impact on our financial position and operating results. We may require additional capital to support business growth, and such capital might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We intend to continue to invest in our business and may require or otherwise seek additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new features and products, enhance our existing services, improve our operating infrastructure and acquire complementary businesses and technologies. As a result, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If our access to capital is restricted or our borrowing costs increase as a result of developments in financial markets relating to the current macroeconomic uncertainty or otherwise, our operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. If we raise additional funds through future issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of our common stock. Any future debt financing we secure could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising 33 Table of Contents activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and respond to business challenges could be significantly impaired, and our business may be harmed. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities. Our income tax obligations are based in part on our corporate operating structure and intercompany arrangements, including the manner in which we develop, value and use our intellectual property and the valuations of our intercompany transactions. For example, our corporate structure includes legal entities located in jurisdictions with income tax rates lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate. Our intercompany arrangements allocate income to such entities in accordance with arms length principles and commensurate with functions performed, risks assumed and ownership of valuable corporate assets. We believe that income taxed in certain foreign jurisdictions at a lower rate relative to the U.S. statutory rate will have a beneficial impact on our worldwide effective tax rate. However, significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. For example, our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations, principles and interpretations. In addition, the application of the tax laws of various jurisdictions, including the United States, to our international business activities is subject to interpretation and depends on our ability to operate our business in a manner consistent with our corporate structure and intercompany arrangements. The taxing authorities of jurisdictions in which we operate may challenge our methodologies for valuing developed technology or intercompany arrangements, including our transfer pricing, or determine that the manner in which we operate our business does not achieve the intended tax consequences, which could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results of operations. As we operate in numerous taxing jurisdictions, the application of tax laws can also be subject to diverging and sometimes conflicting interpretations by tax authorities of these jurisdictions. It is not uncommon for taxing authorities in different countries to have conflicting views, for instance, with respect to, among other things, the manner in which the arms-length standard is applied for transfer pricing purposes, or with respect to the valuation of intellectual property. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings, or the examination of our tax positions, could materially affect our financial position and results of operations. Tax laws are dynamic and subject to change as new laws are passed and new interpretations of the law are issued or applied. Our current practices, existing corporate structure and intercompany arrangements have been implemented in a manner we believe is in compliance with current prevailing tax laws. However, the tax benefits that we intend to eventually derive could be undermined due to changing tax laws or new interpretations of existing laws that are inconsistent with previous interpretations or positions taken by taxing authorities on which we have relied. For example, the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act), which was enacted on December 22, 2017, made broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code, including, among other things, reducing the federal corporate tax rate. Beginning in 2022, the Tax Act required the capitalization of research and development expenses with amortization periods over 5 or 15 years pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 174 (Section 174). The requirement to capitalize Section 174 expenditures has significantly impacted our cash tax liability and, if it is not modified, will significantly impact our cash tax liability in future years. Furthermore, taxing authorities in various U.S. states as well as other jurisdictions worldwide have enacted or proposed new tax laws, rules and regulations directed at taxing the digital economy and multinational entities. Over the last several years, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development has been working on a Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Project that, if implemented, would change various aspects of the existing framework under which our tax obligations are determined in certain countries where we do business. Many countries have approved a framework that imposes a minimum tax rate of 15%, among other provisions. As this framework is subject to further negotiation and implementation by each member country, the timing and ultimate impact of any such changes on our tax obligations are uncertain. Various jurisdictions have also unilaterally enacted or are considering a digital services tax on companies that generate revenues from the provision of digital services. These ongoing efforts to modernize the international tax framework and address the digitalization of the global economy could increase our future tax obligations. We will continue to monitor the developments and assess any impacts on our long-term tax planning and consolidated financial statements. 34 Table of Contents In addition, the taxing authorities in the United States and other jurisdictions where we do business regularly examine our income and other tax returns. The ultimate outcome of these examinations cannot be predicted with certainty. Should the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) or other taxing authorities assess additional taxes as a result of examinations or changes to applicable law or interpretations of the law, we may be required to record charges to our operations, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to Regulatory Compliance and Legal Matters We are, and may be in the future, subject to disputes and assertions that we violate the rights of other parties. These disputes may be costly to defend and could harm our business and operating results. We currently face, and we expect to face from time to time in the future, allegations that we have violated the rights of other parties, including patent, trademark, copyright and other intellectual property rights, privacy or data protection rights of our users, and the rights of current and former employees, users and business owners. The nature of our business also exposes us to claims relating to the information posted on our platform, including claims for defamation, libel, negligence and patent, copyright or trademark infringement, among others. For example, businesses have in the past claimed, and may in the future claim, that we are responsible for the content of reviews posted by our users. We expect claims like these to continue, and potentially increase in proportion to the amount of content on our platform. In some instances, we may elect or be compelled to remove the content that is the subject of such claims, or may be forced to pay substantial damages if we are unsuccessful in our efforts to defend against these claims. For example, laws in Germany may impose significant fines for failure to comply with certain content removal and disclosure obligations. If we elect or are compelled to remove content from our platform, our products and services may become less useful to consumers and our traffic may be harmed, which would have a negative impact on our business. This risk may increase if the protections afforded us by CDA 230 are limited by legislative or judicial actions. This risk may also be greater in certain jurisdictions outside of the United States where our protection from such liability may be unclear. We are also regularly exposed to claims based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Companies in the Internet, technology and media industries own large numbers of patent and other intellectual property rights, and frequently enter into litigation. Various non-practicing entities that own patents and other intellectual property rights also often aggressively attempt to assert claims in order to extract value from technology companies. From time to time, we receive complaints that certain of our products and services may violate the intellectual property rights of others, and have previously been involved in patent lawsuits, including lawsuits involving plaintiffs targeting multiple defendants in the same or similar suits. While we have pursued a number of patent applications, we currently have only limited patent protection for our core business, and the contractual restrictions and trade secrets that protect our proprietary technology provide only limited safeguards against appropriation. This may make it more difficult to defend certain of our intellectual property rights, particularly related to our core business. We expect other claims to be made against us in the future, and the results of litigation and claims to which we may be subject cannot be predicted with any certainty. Even if the claims are without merit, the costs associated with defending against them have in the past been and may in the future be substantial in terms of time, money and management distraction. In particular, patent and other intellectual property litigation may be protracted and expensive, and the results may require us to stop offering certain features, purchase licenses or modify our products and features while we develop non-infringing substitutes, or otherwise involve significant settlement costs. The development of alternative non-infringing technology or practices could require significant effort and expense or may not be feasible. Even if claims do not result in litigation or are resolved in our favor without significant cash settlements, such matters, and the time and resources necessary to resolve them, could harm our business, results of operations and reputation. Our business is subject to complex and evolving domestic and foreign laws, regulations and other obligations related to privacy, data protection, data security and other matters. Our actual or perceived failure to comply with such laws, regulations and obligations (or that of the third parties with whom we work) could harm our business. We and the third parties with whom we work are subject to numerous domestic and foreign laws and regulations that involve matters central to our business, including laws regarding privacy, data protection, data security, user-generated content and consumer protection, among others, as described in more detail under the section titled BusinessGovernment Regulation. For example, we are subject to numerous laws around the world that restrict the collection, use, storing, processing and disclosure of personal information and other user data. We are also subject to a variety of laws, regulations and guidelines that regulate the way we distinguish paid search results and other types of advertising from unpaid search results. We operate in 35 Table of Contents a rapidly evolving industry, and many laws and regulations that impact our business are being proposed, are still evolving or are being tested in courts, which adds to the complexity of operating our business. Our business could be adversely affected if we are required to change our current policies, practices or the design of our platform, products or features based on new laws, regulations or judicial interpretations. For example, in 2022, the European Union enacted the Digital Services Act (DSA), which included extensive new obligations for online platforms related to content moderation and transparency. The DSA introduced trusted flaggers with rights to expedited decisions on the reports they make to platforms, mandated an appeals process for content moderation decisions and gave consumers the right to challenge those decisions with out-of-court settlement bodies. Fines for failing to comply with the DSA can reach 6% of worldwide annual turnover. Similarly, in late 2023, the United Kingdom enacted the Online Safety Act (OSA), which created a new duty of care for online platforms, requiring various proactive efforts to protect users from harmful content. Violations of OSA are subject to fines up to 10% of worldwide annual turnover. Aspects of the DSA, OSA and other new and emerging laws concerning content moderation and transparency, including at the state and federal levels in the United States, remain unclear and we may be required to modify our policies and practices further in an effort to comply with them. Regulatory frameworks for privacy issues and behavioral advertising are also currently in flux worldwide and are trending toward more restrictive obligations. Changes to privacy and data security laws could make it more difficult for consumers to use our platform, resulting in lower traffic and revenue, or make it more difficult for us to provide effective advertising tools to businesses on our platform, resulting in fewer advertisers and lower revenue. Delivering targeted advertising off Yelp in particular is becoming more difficult due to changes in our ability to gather information about user behavior through third-party platforms, new laws and regulations, and consumer resistance. Current and proposed laws and regulations regulate the use of cookies and other tracking technologies, electronic communications and marketing. For example, in addition to giving residents expansive rights related to their personal information, various state privacy laws govern the sale of personal information, allow users to opt out of targeted advertising and, in certain states, require the adoption of universal opt-out signals for targeted advertising and the sale of data. If these and other future restrictions negatively impact our ability to offer ad products that are highly targeted to audience interests, or to measure the effectiveness of our ad products, such as our ability to offer store-level attribution through integrations with third-party data partners, our ability to maintain and expand our base of advertisers will be harmed. In addition, if we encounter widespread consumer withholding of consent, opt-outs of targeted advertising, or adoption of universal opt-out signals, do not track mechanisms or ad-blocking software to prevent the collection of personal information for targeted advertising purposes, we may be required to change the way we market our products, our ability to reach new or existing customers may be materially impaired or our operations may be otherwise harmed. These challenges may be compounded to the extent that different jurisdictions adopt inconsistent or conflicting laws and regulations applicable to our business, which would add complexity to our operations and increase our compliance costs. For example, laws in all states and U.S. territories require businesses to notify affected individuals and governmental entities of the occurrence of certain security breaches affecting personal information. However, these laws are not consistent, and compliance with them in the event of a widespread data breach would be complex and costly. It is also possible that the interpretation and application of various laws and regulations may conflict with other rules or our practices, such as industry standards to which we adhere, our privacy policies and our privacy-related obligations to third parties (including, in certain instances, voluntary third-party certification bodies). Uncertainty regarding the application and interpretation of existing laws and regulations due to court challenges, evolving legislation or regulator interpretation may also result in a significantly greater compliance burden for us. For example, there have been ongoing efforts to restrict the scope of the critical liability protections afforded to online platforms like ours under CDA 230, which could increase our content moderation costs and our exposure to liability in connection with the publication of third-party content, including user-generated reviews. There have also been efforts to limit the applicability of CDA 230 to new types of content, such as AI-generated content. Changes to CDA 230 or new interpretations of its application, whether the result of legislative, administrative or judicial action, could also cause us to remove more content from our platform, particularly critical consumer commentary, in response to takedown demands that may or may not be legitimate, which would negatively affect the quality and quantity of information available through our service. In addition to various laws and regulations, we are or may become bound by industry standards and other contractual obligations, particularly related to data privacy and security, and our efforts to comply with such obligations may not be successful. We must also comply with the technical requirements and policies of the search engines, application marketplace operators, mobile operating systems and other third-party products and services on which we rely. For example, Apple has made certain changes to its products and data use policies in connection with changes to its iOS operating system that reduce our ability to target and measure advertising across third-party platforms. Key web browsers, including Safari and Firefox, disable certain third-party tracking cookies by default. While we believe we comply with these requirements, these third parties generally retain discretion to interpret them and may discontinue our access to such products and services, which would harm 36 Table of Contents our business. We also publish privacy policies, marketing materials and other statements, such as compliance with certain third-party certifications, regarding data privacy and security. If these policies, materials or statements are found to be deficient, lacking in transparency, deceptive, unfair or not representative of our practices, we may be subject to investigation, enforcement actions by regulators or other adverse consequences. Our actual or perceived failure to comply with laws, regulations and other obligations has led to, and could lead to further, costly legal actions, which in turn could result in adverse publicity, significant liability and decreased demand for our services, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, our failure or perceived failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result, and in some cases has resulted, in inquiries and other proceedings, lawsuits and actions against us by governments, regulators or others. Responding to and resolving any current or future litigation, investigations, settlements or other regulatory actions may require significant time and resources, and could diminish confidence in, and the use of, our products. We may also be forced to implement new measures to reduce our legal exposure, which may require us to expend substantial resources, delay development of new products or discontinue certain products or features, which would negatively impact our business. For example, if we fail to comply with our privacy-related obligations to users or third parties, or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release or transfer of personal information or other user data, we may be compelled to provide additional disclosures to our users, obtain additional consents from our users before collecting or using their information or implement new safeguards to help our users manage our use of their information, among other changes. Any resulting negative publicity could adversely affect our reputation and brand, regardless of whether the internal resources expended and expenses incurred in connection with such inquiries and their resolutions are material. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert managements attention and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified board members. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Act, the listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange LLC (NYSE) and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Compliance with these rules and regulations has increased, and will likely continue to increase, our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly, and place significant strain on our personnel, systems and resources. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters, higher administrative expenses and a diversion of managements time and attention. Further, if our compliance efforts differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed. Being a public company that is subject to these rules and regulations also makes it more expensive for us to obtain and retain director and officer liability insurance, and we may in the future be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain or retain adequate coverage. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our Board and qualified executive officers. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our share price has been and will likely continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. In addition to the factors discussed in these Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report, factors that may cause volatility in our share price include: the impact of the current adverse macroeconomic conditions, as well as the timing and pace of the recovery; actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition and operating results; changes in projected operating and financial results; actual or anticipated changes in our growth rate relative to our competitors; repurchases of our common stock pursuant to our stock repurchase program, which could also cause our stock price to be higher that it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our stock; announcements of changes in strategy; announcements of technological innovations or new offerings by us or our competitors; 37 Table of Contents announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital-raising activities or commitments; additions or departures of key personnel; actions of securities analysts who cover our company, such as publishing research or forecasts about our business (and our performance against such forecasts), changing the rating of our common stock or ceasing coverage of our company; investor sentiment, including that of derivatives traders, with respect to us or our competitors, business partners and industry in general; any disruption to the proper operation of our network infrastructure or compromise of our security measures; any failure to maintain effective controls or difficulties encountered in their implementation or improvement; reporting on our business by the financial media, including television, radio and press reports and blogs; fluctuations in the value of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us; changes in the way we measure our key metrics, such as our new methodology for measuring traffic to our website; sales of our common stock; changes in laws or regulations applicable to our solutions; share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our shares; and general economic and market conditions such as recessions or interest rate changes. Furthermore, in recent periods of macroeconomic uncertainty, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. In some cases, these fluctuations have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. For example, in January 2018, we and certain of our officers were sued in a putative class action lawsuit alleging violations of the federal securities laws for allegedly making materially false and misleading statements. We may be the target of additional litigation of this type in the future as well. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our managements time and attention from other business concerns, which could harm our business. We cannot guarantee that our stock repurchase program will be fully consummated or that it will enhance long-term stockholder value. Share repurchases could also increase the volatility of the trading price of our stock and could diminish our cash reserves. Since we implemented our stock repurchase program in July 2017, our Board has authorized the repurchase of up to an aggregate of $1.95 billion of our common stock, of which $304.7 million remained available as of February 18, 2025 and which does not have an expiration date. Although our Board has authorized this repurchase program, the program does not obligate us to repurchase any specific dollar amount or to acquire any specific number of shares. The actual timing and amount of repurchases remain subject to a variety of factors, including liquidity, cash flow and market conditions, all of which may be negatively impacted by the current uncertain macroeconomic conditions. In addition, the terms of our Credit Agreement impose limitations on our ability to repurchase shares during the term of our revolving credit facility. We cannot guarantee that the program will be fully consummated or that it will enhance long-term stockholder value. The program could affect the trading price of our stock and increase volatility, and any announcement of a termination of this program may result in a decrease in the trading price of our stock. In addition, this program could diminish our cash and cash equivalents, and marketable securities. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future and, as a result, our stockholders ability to achieve a return on their investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our Board. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize future gains on their investments. 38 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of our Company more difficult, limit attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management and limit the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control or changes in our Board and management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws include provisions that: authorize our Board to issue, without further action by the stockholders, up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock; require that any action to be taken by our stockholders be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting and not by written consent; specify that special meetings of our stockholders can be called only by our Board, the Chair of our Board or our Chief Executive Officer; establish an advance notice procedure for stockholder proposals to be brought before an annual meeting, including proposed nominations of persons for election to our Board; prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors; provide that vacancies on our Board may be filled only by a majority of directors then in office, even though less than a quorum; and require the approval of our Board or the holders of a supermajority of our outstanding shares of capital stock to amend our bylaws and certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our Board, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware and the U.S. federal district courts will be the exclusive forums for the adjudication of certain disputes, which could limit our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or employees. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the sole and exclusive forum for the following types of actions or proceedings under Delaware statutory or common law: any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any director, officer or other employee of Yelp to us or our stockholders; any action asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to any provision of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our amended and restated bylaws; and any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. This exclusive-forum provision would not apply to suits brought to enforce a duty or liability created by the Exchange Act. Furthermore, section 22 of the Securities Act creates concurrent jurisdiction for federal and state courts over all Securities Act actions. Accordingly, both state and federal courts have jurisdiction to entertain such claims. To prevent having to litigate claims in multiple jurisdictions and the threat of inconsistent or contrary rulings by different courts, among other considerations, our amended and restated bylaws provide that the U.S. federal district courts will be the exclusive forum for resolving any compliant asserting a cause of action arising under the Securities Act. While the Delaware courts have determined that such choice of forum provisions are facially valid, a stockholder may nevertheless seek to bring a claim in a venue other than those designated in the exclusive forum provisions. In such instance, we 39 Table of Contents would expect to vigorously assert the validity and enforceability of the exclusive forum provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws. This may require significant additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions and there can be no assurance that the provisions will be enforced by a court in such other jurisdictions. These exclusive-forum provisions further provide that any person or entity that acquires any interest in shares of our capital stock will be deemed to have notice of and consented to such provisions and may limit a stockholders ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or other employees, which may discourage lawsuits against us and our directors, officers, and other employees. If a court were to find either exclusive-forum provision to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur further significant additional costs associated with resolving the dispute in other jurisdictions, all of which could harm our business. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could cause our share price to decline. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, particularly sales by our directors, officers, employees and significant stockholders, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. As of December 31, 2024, we had 65,791,763 shares of common stock outstanding. 40 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 1C. Cybersecurity. Risk Management and Strategy Computer viruses, malware, phishing attacks, denial-of-service attacks and other cybersecurity threats present a common and constantly evolving risk in our industry. Accordingly, we have incorporated the assessment and management of material risks from cybersecurity threats into our overall risk management process. Our Engineering Security team, which is primarily responsible for identifying, assessing and managing material risks from cybersecurity threats, works with our Chief Technology Officer and other members of management to prioritize our cybersecurity risk management processes and mitigate cybersecurity threats that are most likely to materially impact our business. Our Chief Technology Officer and members of the Engineering Security team regularly report to the Audit Committee of our Board (the Audit Committee), which oversees our efforts to monitor and control cybersecurity risk, as discussed further below. We have implemented and maintain various information security measures, processes, standards and policies, as applicable, designed to identify, assess and manage material risks from cybersecurity threats to our critical computer networks, third-party hosted services, communications systems, hardware and software, and our critical data, including intellectual property, confidential information that is proprietary, strategic or competitive in nature, as well as the data of our users, customers, partners and employees (Information Systems and Data): Risk Identification and Assessment. The Engineering Security team identifies and assesses risks from cybersecurity threats by monitoring and evaluating our threat environment and the Companys risk profile using various internal resources as well as third-party products and services. For example, depending on the environment, system and data, we use manual and automated tools, including third-party cybersecurity software; subscription reports and services from threat intelligence service providers; scans of the threat environment; audits; and threat assessments. Risk Management. Depending on the environment, systems and data, we implement and maintain various technical, physical and organizational measures, processes, standards and policies designed to manage and mitigate material risks from cybersecurity threats to our Information Systems and Data. These include, as applicable to specific environments, systems and data, our Security Incident Response Plan, our Vulnerability Management Policy, data encryption, network security controls and data segregation. Vendor Management.We also have a vendor management program to manage cybersecurity risks associated with our use of third-party service providers, such as AWS, Oracle and Workday, to perform various functions throughout our business. The program includes risk assessments, security questionnaires and security assessment calls with vendors security personnel as appropriate. Depending on the nature of the services provided, the characteristics of the affected Information Systems and Data, and the identity of the provider, our process may involve different levels of assessment designed to help identify cybersecurity risks associated with the provider and imposing contractual obligations related to cybersecurity on the provider. Employee Engagement and Education. In addition to the processes and practices described above, we work to empower employees to recognize and respond to cybersecurity risks. For example, we regularly host hackathons, which encourage our Product and Engineering teams to collaborate to test creative ideas, including for security solutions. In addition to keeping employees informed about cybersecurity best practices throughout the year, our IT and Engineering Security teams host Hacktober each October to promote security awareness in honor of National Cyber Security Awareness Month. Hacktober consists of activities such as weekly trivia challenges to help educate employees about how they can securely access corporate systems, recognize and report phishing email attempts, and take other actions to protect Yelp. To test employee readiness, these teams also send simulated phishing emails that direct employees to additional training if they engage with the email contents. At this time, we have not identified risks from known cybersecurity threats, including as a result of any prior cybersecurity incidents, that have materially affected us, including our operations, business strategy, results of operations or financial condition. For a description of the risks from cybersecurity threats that may materially affect us and how they may do so, see the section titled Risk FactorsIf our security measures are compromised, or if our platform is subject to attacks that degrade or deny the ability of users to access our content, users may curtail or stop use of our platform. 41 Table of Contents Governance Our Board oversees the Companys aggregate risk profile and risk management process. The Board administers this oversight function with respect to cybersecurity risks through the Audit Committee, which is responsible for overseeing the Companys cybersecurity risk management processes, including the steps our management has taken to monitor and control cybersecurity risks. Our cybersecurity risk assessment and management processes are implemented and maintained by certain Company management, including our Chief Technology Officer, our Vice President of Engineering Security and our Director of Engineering Security. Each of these individuals has extensive industry experience developed through a significant career in engineering, IT and systems management, and security, respectively. Our Chief Technology Officer received a B.A. in Computing and Artificial Intelligence, and his experience includes the development of intrusion detection and firewall functionality for products at a global technology company. Our Vice President of Engineering Security received an M.S. in Business Analytics, with a focus on Computer and Information Systems, and her experience includes more than 15 years in systems management and administration at a major U.S. financial institution. Our Director of Engineering Security received an M.S. in Telecommunications Networks with a specialization in Security, is a Certified Information Systems Security Professional, and has more than 15 years of experience building security programs, including building and leading the incident response team at a global software company. Our Chief Technology Officer is responsible for hiring appropriate personnel, helping to integrate cybersecurity risk considerations into the Companys overall risk management strategy and communicating key priorities to relevant personnel. Our Chief Technology Officer is also responsible for approving budgets, helping prepare for cybersecurity incidents, approving cybersecurity processes, and reviewing security assessments and other security-related reports. Our Director of Engineering Security works with our Chief Technology Officer and Vice President of Engineering Security to develop a cybersecurity strategy that aligns with our business strategy and is responsible for implementing that strategy through his leadership of the day-to-day operations of our Engineering Security team. Our Vulnerability Management Policy and Security Incident Response Plan are designed to escalate certain cybersecurity vulnerabilities and incidents, respectively, to members of management depending on the circumstances, including the Vice President, Director and other members of the Engineering Security team. Our Security Incident Response Plan also provides for escalations to our General Counsel and other members of the Legal team, as well as for notification of our Chief Technology Officer. The Engineering Security team and other members of management work with the incident response team to help the Company mitigate and remediate cybersecurity incidents of which they are notified. Our Chief Technology Officer and members of the Engineering Security team typically meet bi-annually with the Audit Committee to review the Companys significant cybersecurity threats and risks, as well as the processes the Company has implemented to address them. The Chair of the Audit Committee, in turn, reports to the full Board. Item 2. Properties. Our principal executive offices in North America are currently located at 350 Mission Street, San Francisco, California, where we lease office space pursuant to a lease agreement that expires in 2030 and includes an option for early termination in 2028 that we are reasonably certain to exercise. We also lease office space in Canada and Europe. We believe that our properties are generally suitable to meet our needs for the foreseeable future and, to the extent we require additional space in the future, we believe that it would be available on commercially reasonable terms. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. For information regarding material legal proceedings in which we are involved, see Legal Proceedings in Note 14, Commitments and Contingencies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference. We are also subject to legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. Although the results of litigation and claims cannot be predicted with certainty, we currently do not believe that the final outcome of any of these matters will have a material effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 42 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. Not applicable. 43 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Market Information Our common stock, par value $0.000001 per share, is listed on the NYSE under the symbol YELP. Stockholders As of the close of business on February 18, 2025, there were 32 stockholders of record of our common stock. The actual number of holders of our common stock is greater than this number of record holders, and includes stockholders who are beneficial owners, but whose shares are held in street name by brokers or other nominees. This number of holders of record also does not include stockholders whose shares may be held in trust by other entities. Dividend Policy We have never declared or paid, and do not anticipate declaring or paying, any cash dividends on our capital stock. Any future determination as to the declaration and payment of dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our Board and will depend on then-existing conditions, including our financial condition, operating results, contractual restrictions, capital requirements, business prospects and other factors that our Board may deem relevant. Performance Graph We have presented below the cumulative total return to our stockholders during the period from December 31, 2019 through December 31, 2024 in comparison to the NYSE Composite Index and NYSE Arca Tech 100 Index. All values assume a $100 initial investment and data for the NYSE Composite Index and NYSE Arca Tech 100 Index assume reinvestment of dividends. The comparisons are based on historical data and are not indicative of, nor intended to forecast, the future performance of our common stock. The information under Performance Graph is not deemed to be soliciting material or filed with the SEC or subject to Regulation 14A or 14C, or to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, and is not to be incorporated by reference in any 44 Table of Contents filing of Yelp under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, whether made before or after the date of this Annual Report and irrespective of any general incorporation language in those filings. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table summarizes our stock repurchase activity for the three months ended December 31, 2024 (in thousands except for price per share): Period Total Number of Shares Purchased(1) Average Price Paid per Share(2) Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Program October 1 - October 31, 2024 739 $ 34.29 739 $ 367,919 November 1 - November 30, 2024 234 $ 36.21 234 $ 359,449 December 1 - December 31, 2024 734 $ 39.07 734 $ 330,759 (1) Since the initial authorization of our stock repurchase program in July 2017, our Board has authorized us to repurchase up to an aggregate of $1.95 billion of our outstanding common stock, including $500.0 million authorized on February 13, 2024, of which $304.7 million remained available for future repurchases on February 18, 2025. The actual timing and amount of repurchases depend on a variety of factors, including liquidity, cash flow and market conditions. See the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsLiquidity and Capital ResourcesStock Repurchase Program. (2) Average price paid per share includes costs associated with the repurchases but excludes the 1% excise tax accrued on our share repurchases, net of shares issued, as a result of the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022. Item 6. [Reserved]. 45 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs, and involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results and the timing of certain events could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of several factors, including those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors included under Part I, Item 1A and elsewhere in this Annual Report. See Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements in this Annual Report. The following section also includes information regarding 2024 and 2023 and year-over-year comparisons between these periods. A full discussion of 2022 items and year-over-year comparisons between 2023 and 2022 can be found in the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. Overview As one of the best known Internet brands in the United States, Yelp is a trusted local resource for consumers and a partner in success for businesses of all sizes. Consumers trust us for the more than 280 million ratings and reviews available on our platform of businesses across a broad range of categories, while businesses advertise with us to reach our large audience of purchase-oriented and generally affluent consumers. We believe our ability to provide value to both consumers and businesses not only fulfills our mission to connect consumers with great local businesses, but also positions us well in the local, digital advertising market in the United States. We generate substantially all of our revenue from the sale of performance-based advertising products, which our advertising platform matches to individual consumers through auctions priced on a CPC basis. In the year ended December 31, 2024, our net revenue was $1.41 billion, up 6% from the year ended December 31, 2023 and 18% from the year ended December 31, 2022, and we recorded net income of $132.9 million and adjusted EBITDA of $358.0 million. For information on how we define and calculate adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to net income (loss), see Non-GAAP Financial Measures below. In 2024, we delivered another year of record annual revenue and profitable growth through the consistent execution of our product-led strategic initiatives: Deliver the best Home Services experience for consumers and service pros The Home Services category was the major focus of our strategy in 2024 and has been the largest driver of growth in the Services categories for nearly a decade. In 2024, we launched a number of new products and features to facilitate even better connections between consumers and service professionals. These included our AI chatbot, Yelp Assistant, which has particularly resonated with consumers, with project submissions through this feature increasing by more than 50% from the third to fourth quarter of 2024. To help service professionals more easily evaluate leads phone calls, requests and website clicks we enhanced the business owner inbox by providing brief AI-powered summaries of crucial job information. Improvements to the Request-a-Quote flow led to an approximately 25% year-over-year increase in projects in 2024. These efforts drove record advertising revenue from Services businesses in 2024, which grew 11% year over year to $879 million, led by approximately 15% year-over-year revenue growth in our Home Services category. Provide the most trusted local search and discovery platform In 2024, we continued our efforts to grow the trusted content that has made Yelp a leading resource for consumers to search for and discover great local businesses. Our users contributed 21 million new reviews in 2024, bringing our cumulative reviews to 308 million. We introduced a number of new features and updates, including dozens of AI-powered updates, to enhance the Yelp experience and drive user engagement. For example, we updated the Yelp apps home feed to surface additional types of content while also making it a more visual experience by showcasing user-generated videos. We also introduced trending searches and businesses to inspire exploration and highlight popular new spots nearby, and redesigned Yelp business pages to make it even easier for users to discover businesses that suit their needs. These improvements to the search experience benefited consumer searches following their implementation. For consumers engaging with our trusted reviews, we launched Review Insights, which leverages LLMs to gauge reviewer sentiment about common aspects of a business, such as the quality of its food, service, 46 Table of Contents ambiance, wait time and drinks. We also made a number of user experience and backend improvements to our mobile and desktop websites that together led to year-over-year increases in desktop and mobile web unique devices in 2024. Optimize advertiser value through our advanced technology In 2024, our improved matching and ad formats delivered more value to our advertisers in the form of more clicks at compelling prices. We introduced smart selection, an AI-powered feature for advertisers that automatically selects the best reviews and photos to showcase, optimizing ads for the highest return. We also expanded local advertiser reach through a variety of partnerships, including by leveraging users on-Yelp search intent to surface relevant Yelp ads to them on local platforms like Facebook. As a result, ad clicks increased by 6% year over year as users interacted with even more relevant content while average CPC remained flat in 2024, resulting in an improvement in our retention of non-term advertisers budgets compared to 2023. Drive profitable growth through our most efficient channels By prioritizing investments in our Self-serve and Multi-location channels, we have significantly shifted our go-to-market mix toward our most efficient channels in recent years. In 2024, revenue from these channels together accounted for approximately 50% of our total advertising revenue, a significant expansion from approximately 30% in 2018. Our product and marketing efforts contributed to another year of record Self-serve customer acquisition in 2024, which drove annual revenue growth of approximately 15% year over year in this channel. For example, we continued to enhance the business owner experience through budget recommendations and billing optimizations as well as new competitive insights on the business owner dashboard, such as page view comparisons. Multi-location channel revenue was approximately flat year over year in 2024 as businesses in the RR&O categories continued to face a challenging operating environment. However, we remained focused on improving our offerings for multi-location advertisers. For example, we launched a conversion API to provide additional attribution capabilities, expanded Yelp Audiences to include audio platforms and introduced a leads API for multi-location Services businesses. Looking ahead, we see further opportunities to build upon the success of these strategic initiatives and deliver even more value to both consumers and advertisers by investing in our 2025 strategic initiatives. As we enter 2025, we expect that our expenses will increase from the fourth quarter of 2024 to the first quarter of 2025, primarily reflecting a seasonal increase in expenses from payroll taxes and benefits. We expect stock-based compensation expense as a percentage of revenue to decrease to less than 8% by the end of 2025 and reach less than 6% by the end of 2027. We also expect that our revenue will grow year over year in 2025 as our initiatives gain traction; however, we expect revenue in the first quarter of 2025 to be slightly down sequentially, reflecting seasonal trends and the macroeconomic challenges facing our RR&O categories. Factors Affecting Our Performance Macroeconomic Conditions. The United States continues to face widespread macroeconomic uncertainties, including labor shortages, inflation and recessionary concerns, which may be exacerbated by proposed tariffs and changes to U.S. immigration policy. These challenging macroeconomic conditions have had, and may continue to have, a significant adverse impact on our business and results of operations. For example, adverse macroeconomic conditions have had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on the ability and willingness of advertisers to spend on our products and services. Although advertiser demand from Services businesses was strong in 2024, RR&O businesses continued to face a challenging operating environment, including supply chain issues, inflation and its impact on consumer spending, labor shortages and an increased cost of labor, which has negatively impacted their advertising spending with us. Changes in consumer behavior due to adverse economic conditions have also had, and may continue to have, a negative impact our business. For example, in 2024, economic uncertainty and inflationary pressures contributed to consumer use of our mobile app and web traffic to our platform remaining below pre-pandemic 2019 levels, particularly in our RR&O categories. Because traffic to and user engagement on our platform together impact the number of ads we are able to show as well as the value of those ads to businesses, such negative impacts on consumer activity may also make it more difficult to convince existing and prospective advertisers that our products offer them a material benefit and generate a competitive return relative to other alternatives. 47 Table of Contents It is not possible for us to predict the remaining duration of the ongoing adverse macroeconomic conditions or the duration or magnitude of any resulting adverse impact on our business. Adverse macroeconomic conditions have historically been particularly challenging for the SMBs on which we rely and any protracted economic downturn would have significant negative effects on our business. Investment in Growth. In 2025, we plan to invest in our strategic initiatives to lead in Services, drive advertiser value and transform the consumer experience. These initiatives will require substantial investments that may not prioritize short-term financial results, depend on our ability to develop innovative, relevant and useful products in a timely manner, and involve significant risks and uncertainties. For example, new products and initiatives may fail to generate sufficient revenue, operating margin or other value to justify the investments we made in them, which is a particular risk for new products and initiatives that are unproven or that are outside of our historical core business, such as our plans to expand our use of AI throughout our platform and business operations. While we believe these initiatives will ultimately drive revenue growth, our investments in them will increase our operating expenses, and any increase in revenue resulting from these product innovations will likely trail the increase in expenses. Our Ability to Attract, Retain and Engage Consumers. We generate substantially all of our revenue based on our users engagement with the ads that we display. Because traffic to and user engagement on our platform together determine the number of ads we are able to show, affect the value of those ads to businesses and support the content creation that drives further traffic, our ability to attract, retain and engage visitors on our platform is critical to our business and financial success. While we believe our largest growth opportunity will be to monetize a greater portion of our existing traffic, rather than to grow traffic generally, we are also investing in a broad set of consumer initiatives to support the long-term growth of our traffic and business. Our Ability to Attract and Retain Advertisers. Our revenue growth is driven by our ability to attract and retain advertising customers. To do so, we must deliver tailored advertising products at a competitive price in a highly competitive market. A substantial portion of our advertisers have the ability to cancel their advertising campaigns at any time. Their decisions to renew depend on the degree of satisfaction with our products as well as a number of factors that are outside of our control, including their ability to continue their operations and spending levels. Although the opportunity presented by multi-location Services businesses remains a strategic focus, we continue to rely heavily on SMBs that often have limited advertising budgets, may view online advertising products like ours as experimental and unproven, and are disproportionately impacted by macroeconomic conditions. Our Ability to Attract and Retain Talent. Our ability to execute on our strategic initiatives depends on our continuing ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain highly qualified and skilled employees. Qualified individuals are in high demand and we expect to continue to face significant competition from other companies in hiring such personnel. Our employee operations are complex and place substantial demands on management and our operational infrastructure, particularly in our fully remote work environment. We believe our decision to maintain distributed operations will provide even greater flexibility to our employees, who now have the opportunity to relocate within the countries where we operate so they can live where they want to live and work where they will feel most effective, and will allow us to access and attract great talent from a wider pool of candidates across North America and Europe. Stock Repurchases.Since July 2017, our Board has authorized us to repurchase up to an aggregate of $1.95 billion of our outstanding common stock, $304.7 million of which remained available as of February 18, 2025 and which does not have an expiration date. During the year ended December 31, 2024, we repurchased on the open market 6,686,518 shares for an aggregate purchase price of $250.9 million. The actual timing and amount of repurchases remain subject to a variety of factors, including liquidity, cash flow and market conditions. In addition, the terms of our Credit Agreement impose limitations on our ability to repurchase shares during the term of our revolving credit facility. We have funded the repurchases, and expect to fund future repurchases under the stock repurchase program, with cash available on our balance sheet. As a result, this program could diminish our cash reserves and reduce our ability to invest in our business, in addition to affecting the trading price and volatility of our stock. Corporate Development Activities. As part of our business strategy, we may decide to expand our product offerings and grow our business through the acquisition of complementary businesses or technologies, as well as through partnerships. For example, in November 2024, we acquired RepairPal to expand our offerings in the Auto Services category. In addition to diverting our managements attention and otherwise disrupting our operations, our corporate development activities will affect our future financial results due to factors such as expenses incurred in identifying, investigating and pursuing transactions, whether or not they are consummated, possible dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, unidentified liabilities and the amortization of acquired intangible assets. Maintaining relationships with partners also requires significant time and resources, as does integrating their data, services and technologies onto our platform. We may not realize the full 48 Table of Contents benefits of synergies, innovation and operational efficiencies that may be possible from a corporate transaction; similarly, if our relationships with partners deteriorate, we could suffer increased costs and delays in our ability to provide consumers and advertisers with our content or services. Seasonality. Our business is affected by seasonal fluctuations in Internet usage and advertising spending. Based on historical trends, our revenue is typically lowest in the first quarter and increases sequentially through the third quarter. Fourth quarter revenue is typically similar to the third quarter as well as to the first quarter of the subsequent year. Multi-location ad budgets typically increase throughout the year, generally starting the year at their lowest and peaking in the fourth quarter, though our SMB customers tend to decrease their spending at that time. With regard to expenses, we generally decrease our marketing expenditures in the fourth quarter before increasing them again in the first quarter of the following year. Our personnel expenses tend to increase from the fourth quarter to the first quarter due to the timing of payroll taxes and benefits, as well as our annual compensation cycle. Our traffic is also typically weakest in the fourth quarter of the year. Key Metrics We regularly review a number of metrics, including the key metrics set forth below, to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends in our business, prepare financial projections and make strategic decisions. Ad Clicks and Average CPC The amount of revenue we generate from our pay-for-performance advertising products is determined by the number of ad clicks we deliver to advertisers and the price we charge for each ad click (CPC). Ad clicks represent user interactions with our pay-for-performance advertising products, including clicks on advertisements on our website and mobile app, clicks on syndicated advertisements on third-party platforms and Request-a-Quote submissions, among others. Ad clicks include only user interactions that we are able to track directly, and therefore do not include user interactions with ads sold through our advertising partnerships. We do not expect the exclusion of such user interactions to materially affect this metric. We report the year-over-year percentage change in ad clicks as a measure of our success in monetizing more of our consumer activity and delivering more value to advertisers. Average CPC is calculated as revenue from our performance-based ad products excluding certain revenue adjustments that do not impact the outcome of an auction for an individual ad click, such as refunds, as well as revenue from our advertising partnerships divided by the total number of ad clicks for a given period. Average CPC represents the average amount we charge advertisers for each ad click. We believe that ad clicks and average CPC together reflect one of the most significant dynamics affecting our advertising revenue performance: the interplay of advertiser demand and consumer activity. At the level of an auction for an individual ad click, advertiser demand consisting of advertiser budgets and the number of advertisers competing to purchase the ad click intersects with the supply of consumer activity consisting of the predicted levels of relevant consumer traffic and engagement to determine CPC, with higher advertiser demand putting upward pressure on the CPC and higher consumer activity putting downward pressure on the CPC. In aggregate, advertiser demand consists of the number of business locations advertising with us (which we refer to as paying advertising locations, as discussed below) and the aggregate budget they allocate to purchasing our advertising products. Aggregate monetizable consumer activity depends on the levels of consumer traffic and engagement with our ads, the numbers of locations where we can display ads and other monetizable features, and our click-through rate, which is the ratio of ad clicks to the number of times the ads were displayed to consumers. The relative strengths of these factors in aggregate are reflected in average CPC. Ad clicks and average CPC also provide important insight into the value we deliver to advertisers, which we believe is a significant factor in our ability to retain both revenue and customers. For example, a positive change in ad clicks for a given period combined with lower growth or a negative change in average CPC over the same period would indicate that we delivered more ad clicks at lower prices, thereby delivering more value to our advertisers; we would expect this to have a positive impact on retention. Conversely, growth in average CPC paired with a negative or lower growth rate in ad clicks would indicate we charged more without delivering more ad clicks; we would expect this to have a negative impact on retention unless we are able to increase the value we deliver through higher performing ad clicks. 49 Table of Contents The following table presents year-over-year changes in our ad clicks and average CPC for the periods presented (each expressed as a percentage): Three Months Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 2024 2023 Ad Clicks 5% 9% 6% 5% Average CPC % 4% % 9% In each of the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2024, advertising revenue grew 6% year over year due to year-over-year increases in ad clicks. The increases in ad clicks in both periods were driven by improvements to our advertising technology and, to a lesser extent, our acquisition of Services projects through paid search. Average CPC remained flat in each of the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2024. Advertising Revenue by Category Our advertising revenue comprises revenue from the sale of our advertising products, including the resale of our advertising products by partners and syndicated ads appearing on third-party platforms. To reflect our strategic focus on creating two differentiated experiences on Yelp, we provide a breakdown of our advertising revenue attributable to businesses in two high-level category groupings: Services and RR&O. Our Services categories consist of home, local, auto, professional, pets, events, real estate and financial services. Our RR&O categories consist of restaurants, shopping, beauty & fitness, health and other. The following table presents our advertising revenue by category for the periods presented (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended December 31, % Change Year Ended December 31, % Change 2024 2023 2024 2023 Services $ 224,840 $ 203,140 11% $ 879,092 $ 793,112 11% Restaurants, Retail & Other 120,798 124,231 (3)% 469,928 483,406 (3)% Total Advertising Revenue $ 345,638 $ 327,371 6% $ 1,349,020 $ 1,276,518 6% Paying Advertising Locations Paying advertising locations comprise all business locations associated with a business account from which we recognized advertising revenue in a given month, excluding RepairPal business locations as well as business accounts that purchased advertising through partner programs other than Yelp Ads Certified Partners, averaged over a given three- or twelve-month period. We also provide a breakdown of paying advertising locations between our Services categories and RR&O categories. We provide our paying advertising locations as a measure of the reach and scale of our business; however, this metric may exhibit short-term volatility as a result of factors such as seasonality and macroeconomic conditions. For example, macroeconomic factors, such as the current inflationary pressures and labor and supply chain challenges, have had a predominant negative impact on RR&O paying advertising locations over the past year. Short-term fluctuations in paying advertising locations may also reflect the acquisition or loss of single advertising accounts associated with large numbers of locations, or the pausing/restarting of advertising campaigns by such multi-location advertisers. 50 Table of Contents The following table presents the number of paying advertising locations for the periods presented (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended December 31, % Change Year Ended December 31, % Change 2024 2023 2024 2023 Services 250 245 2% 252 239 5% Restaurants, Retail & Other 271 299 (9)% 274 316 (13)% Total Paying Advertising Locations 521 544 (4)% 526 555 (5)% Total paying advertising locations decreased in the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2024 compared to the prior-year periods, as the decreases in paying advertising locations in our RR&O categories were partially offset by increases in paying advertising locations in our Services categories over the same periods. We believe the decreases in RR&O paying advertising locations reflect the challenging operating environment facing businesses in these categories and, to a lesser extent, competition for ad spend from such businesses, including from food ordering and delivery providers. Reviews and Traffic We report our reviews and traffic metrics on an annual basis as measures of the volume of our content and the size of our audience, respectively. Although measures of our content (including our reviews metric) and traffic do not factor directly into the advertising arrangements we have with our customers, this dynamic underpins our ability to deliver ad clicks and drive conversion of advertisers products and services. Consumer engagement metrics validate our value proposition to businesses as they seek easy-to-use and effective advertising solutions. Reviews Number of reviews represents the cumulative number of reviews submitted to Yelp since inception, as of the period end, including reviews that were not recommended or had been removed from our platform. In addition to the text of the review, each review includes a rating of one to five stars. We include reviews that are not recommended and that have been removed because all of them are either currently accessible on our platform or were accessible at some point in time, providing information that may be useful to users to evaluate businesses and individual reviewers. Because our automated recommendation software continually reassesses which reviews to recommend based on new information that becomes available, the recommended or not recommended status of reviews may change over time. Reviews that are not recommended or that have been removed do not factor into a businesss overall star rating. Users can access the reviews that are not currently recommended, as well as the star rating and other information about reviews that were removed for violation of our terms of service, through a link on the businesss page. As of December 31, 2024, 308.1 million reviews had been submitted to our platform, of which 281.8 million reviews were available on business pages, including 46.9 million reviews that were not recommended, and 26.3 million reviews had been removed from our platform, either by us for violation of our terms of service or by the users who contributed them. The following table presents the number of cumulative reviews as of December 31, 2024 and 2023 (in thousands): As of December 31, % Change 2024 2023 Reviews 308,100 287,364 7% 51 Table of Contents Traffic Traffic to our website and mobile app has three components: mobile devices accessing our mobile app, devices accessing our non-mobile optimized website, which we refer to as our desktop website, and devices accessing our mobile-optimized website, which we refer to as our mobile website. A substantial majority of each of these traffic streams goes to our RR&O categories, with traffic to our mobile app particularly heavily weighted toward RR&O. Because RR&O traffic is particularly sensitive to changes in consumer confidence levels, our overall traffic levels generally fluctuate with macroeconomic conditions. For example, although our traffic has recovered from its lowest levels during the pandemic in 2020, it has remained below our pre-pandemic 2019 traffic levels due to ongoing economic uncertainty and inflationary pressures, among other macroeconomic concerns. We cannot predict the remaining duration of these conditions, or the duration or magnitude of any resulting adverse impacts on our traffic, and we expect that our traffic levels will continue to fluctuate with consumers level of confidence. In addition, we have historically benefited from the integration of our content into Apple Maps, driving a significant amount of traffic to our website and downloads of our mobile app. However, the volume of traffic and app downloads from this source has declined following certain changes to the display of our content in Apple Maps and it may to continue to decline in the future. As a result of these dynamics, as well as the maturation of our business and high penetration rates in most major geographic markets within the United States and Canada, we generally expect our traffic to continue fluctuating and to decrease in certain periods going forward. In 2025, we expect RR&O traffic to remain challenged as consumers continue to face economic uncertainty and inflation, likely offsetting modest growth in Services traffic. While we believe our largest growth opportunity will be to monetize a greater portion of our existing traffic, rather than to grow traffic generally, we are also investing in a broad set of consumer initiatives to support the long-term growth of our traffic and business. We use the metrics set forth below to measure each of our traffic streams. An individual user who accesses our platform through multiple traffic streams will be counted in each applicable traffic metric; as a result, the sum of our traffic metrics will not accurately represent the number of people who visit our platform on an average monthly basis. App Unique Devices. Prior to 2024, we calculated app unique devices as the number of unique mobile devices using our mobile app in a given month, averaged over a given twelve-month period. As a result of our ongoing efforts to improve the accuracy of our key metrics, in 2024, we updated our methodology for measuring app unique devices to exclude devices that access our mobile app in a given month but do not meet a minimum level of engagement with it during such month by, for example, viewing a business, performing a search, viewing or submitting content, or other similar interactions (minimum required level of engagement). Under both our current and historical methodologies, an individual who accesses our mobile app from multiple mobile devices will be counted as multiple app unique devices. Multiple individuals who access our mobile app from a shared device will be counted as a single app unique device. App users generate a substantial majority of activity on Yelp, including the page views and ad clicks that we monetize. The following table presents app unique devices for the periods presented (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, % Change 2024 2023 App Unique Devices Updated Methodology 28,595 29,842 (4)% Historical Methodology 30,660 31,909 (4)% In 2024, app unique devices decreased year over year as consumers visited restaurants less frequently amid macroeconomic pressures. It also continued to be negatively impacted by the reduced volume of app downloads driven by Apple Maps. Desktop and Mobile Website Unique Devices. Prior to 2024, we calculated our desktop and mobile web traffic metrics based on the number of users, as measured by Google Analytics, who had visited our desktop website and mobile website, respectively, at least once in a given month, averaged over a given twelve-month period. We referred to these metrics as desktop unique visitors and mobile web unique visitors. However, as of July 1, 2024, Google discontinued the Universal Analytics version of Google Analytics that we previously used. 52 Table of Contents We now calculate desktop web traffic and mobile web traffic as (1) the number of devices identified by our internal measurement tools that have visited our desktop website and mobile website, respectively, at least once in a given month, (2) adjusted to exclude devices that do not meet our minimum required level of engagement during such month, (3) averaged over a given twelve-month period. We believe this methodology will allow us to better analyze web traffic data. We refer to our web traffic metrics calculated under this methodology as unique devices rather than unique visitors to conform to the name of our app unique devices metric as well as to better reflect that these metrics measure devices that visit our website rather than individuals who visit our website, as discussed below. Our internal measurement tools and Google Analytics measure devices and users, respectively, based on unique identifiers. As a result, an individual who visits our website from multiple devices with different identifiers may be counted as multiple unique devices or unique visitors, as applicable, and multiple individuals who visit our website from a shared device with a single identifier may be counted as a single unique device or unique visitor. Accordingly, the calculations of our unique visitors and unique devices may not accurately reflect the number of individuals who actually visit our website. The following table presents our web traffic for the periods presented (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, % Change 2024 2023 Desktop Unique Devices Internal Measurement 40,341 39,959 1% Google Analytics N/A 36,301 N/A Mobile Web Unique Devices Internal Measurement 63,987 62,013 3% Google Analytics N/A 60,282 N/A Improvements to our desktop and mobile websites, including matching improvements and a more visually appealing user experience, drove slight year-over-year increases in desktop and mobile web unique devices in 2024. Active Claimed Local Business Locations We report active claimed local business locations annually as a measure of the scope of our Local advertising business. The number of active claimed local business locations represents the number of claimed local business locations business addresses for which a business representative has visited our platform and claimed the free business page for the business located at that address that are both (a) active on Yelp and (b) associated with an active business owner account as of a given date. We consider a claimed local business location to be active if it has not closed, been removed from our platform or merged with another claimed local business. The table set forth below presents the number of active claimed local business locations as of the dates presented (in thousands). As of December 31, % Change 2024 2023 Active Claimed Local Business Locations 7,736 7,056 10% 53 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth our results of operations for 2024 and 2023 (in thousands, except percentages). The period-to-period comparison of financial results is not necessarily indicative of future results. Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change(1) Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Net revenue by product: Advertising revenue by category: Services $ 879,092 $ 793,112 $ 85,980 11 % Restaurants, Retail & Other 469,928 483,406 (13,478) (3) % Advertising 1,349,020 1,276,518 72,502 6 % Other(2) 63,044 60,544 2,500 4 % Total net revenue 1,412,064 1,337,062 75,002 6 % Costs and expenses: Cost of revenue (exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below) 123,684 114,229 9,455 8 % Sales and marketing 585,978 556,605 29,373 5 % Product development 325,992 332,570 (6,578) (2) % General and administrative 184,958 212,431 (27,473) (13) % Depreciation and amortization 40,407 42,184 (1,777) (4) % Total costs and expenses 1,261,019 1,258,019 3,000 % Income from operations 151,045 79,043 72,002 91 % Other income, net 31,915 26,039 5,876 23 % Income before income taxes 182,960 105,082 77,878 74 % Provision for income taxes 50,110 5,909 44,201 748 % Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 132,850 $ 99,173 $ 33,677 34 % (1) Percentage changes are calculated based on rounded numbers and may not recalculate exactly due to rounding. (2) For the year ended December 31, 2024, other revenue includes revenue generated from transactions with consumers, which we reported separately as transactions revenue in prior periods. Prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current-period presentation. Years Ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 Net Revenue Advertising. We generate advertising revenue from the sale of our advertising products including Yelp Ads and business page upgrades to businesses of all sizes, from single-location local businesses to multi-location national businesses. Advertising revenue also includes revenue generated from the resale of our advertising products by certain partners and monetization of advertising inventory through third-party ad networks, as well as revenue from the RepairPal Network. We present advertising revenue on a disaggregated basis for our high-level category groupings, Services and RR&O. Advertising revenue increased in 2024 compared to 2023, primarily driven by a 6% increase in ad clicks. Other. We generate other revenue through non-advertising contracts, such as our subscription services, which include our Yelp Guest Manager product, and through our Yelp Fusion and Yelp Fusion Insights programs, which provide Yelp content and data for a fee. In addition, we now report transactions revenue together with other revenue to reflect that neither transactions revenue nor the underlying business is a core part of our current business model. As a result, other revenue now includes revenue from various transactions with consumers. We generate revenue from such transactions through our partnership integrations, which are mainly revenue-sharing arrangements that provide consumers with the ability to place food orders for pickup and delivery through third parties directly on Yelp. We earn a fee for acting as an agent for transactions placed through these integrations, which we record on a net basis and include in revenue upon completion of a transaction. Other revenue increased in 2024 compared to 2023, primarily due to the continued growth of our Yelp Fusion, Yelp Guest Manager and Yelp Fusion Insights programs, partially offset by a lower volume of food takeout and delivery orders. 54 Table of Contents Trends and Uncertainties of Net Revenue. Net revenue in the year ended December 31, 2024 increased by 6% year over year as momentum in our Services categories continued. We expect net revenue for the first quarter of 2025 to decrease slightly from the fourth quarter of 2024, reflecting typical seasonality and ongoing operating challenges for businesses in our RR&O categories. Costs and Expenses Cost of Revenue (exclusive of depreciation and amortization). Our cost of revenue consists primarily of website infrastructure expense, which includes website hosting costs and employee costs (including stock-based compensation expense) for the infrastructure teams responsible for operating our website and mobile app, and excludes depreciation and amortization expense. Cost of revenue also includes third-party advertising fulfillment costs and credit card processing fees. Cost of revenue increased in 2024 compared to 2023, primarily as a result of an increase in website infrastructure expense of $8.8 million, primarily as a result of investments in maintaining and improving our infrastructure as well as higher cost of labor. We expect cost of revenue to increase on an absolute dollar basis in 2025 compared to 2024. Sales and Marketing. Our sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of employee costs (including sales commission and stock-based compensation expenses) for our sales and marketing employees. Sales and marketing expenses also include business and consumer acquisition marketing, community management, as well as allocated workplace and other supporting overhead costs. Sales and marketing expenses increased in 2024 compared to 2023, primarily due to: an increase in marketing and advertising costs of $23.0 million, driven by increased investments in acquiring Services projects through paid search; and an increase in employee costs of $16.2 million resulting from higher cost of labor, partially offset by lower average headcount. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in workplace operating costs of $9.8 million resulting from reductions in our leased office space. See Note 10, Leases, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. We expect sales and marketing expenses to increase in 2025 compared to 2024 as our sales and marketing employees become more tenured as well as additional headcount from the acquisition of RepairPal. However, we expect sales and marketing expenses to decrease as a percentage of net revenue as we realize efficiencies from our sales and marketing initiatives. Product Development. Our product development expenses primarily consist of employee costs (including bonuses and stock-based compensation expense, net of capitalized employee costs associated with capitalized website and internal-use software development) for our engineers, product management and corporate infrastructure employees. In addition, product development expenses include allocated workplace and other supporting overhead costs. Product development expenses decreased in 2024 compared to 2023, primarily due to a decrease in employee costs of $5.8 million resulting from more employee costs being capitalized and lower average headcount, partially offset by higher cost of labor. We expect product development expenses to remain relatively consistent on an absolute dollar basis in 2025 compared to 2024, but decrease as a percentage of net revenue as our distributed operations provide leverage. 55 Table of Contents General and Administrative. Our general and administrative expenses primarily consist of employee costs (including bonuses and stock-based compensation expense) for our executive, finance, user operations, legal, people operations and other administrative employees. Our general and administrative expenses also include our provision for doubtful accounts, consulting costs, as well as allocated workplace and other supporting overhead costs. General and administrative expenses decreased in 2024 compared to 2023, primarily due to: a decrease in impairment charges of $17.7 million related to our leased office spaces. See Note10, Leases, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail; an $11.0 million loss contingency recorded in 2023 in connection with the agreement to settle a putative class action lawsuit asserting claims under the California Invasion of Privacy Act (the CIPA Action). See Note 14, Commitments and Contingencies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail; and a decrease in employee costs of $5.3 million, primarily driven by lower average headcount. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts of $4.9 million due to higher customer delinquencies and higher advertising revenue. We expect general and administrative expenses to increase slightly on an absolute dollar basis in 2025 compared to 2024 to support the continued growth of our business, but remain relatively consistent as a percentage of net revenue. Depreciation and Amortization. Depreciation and amortization expense primarily consists of depreciation on computer equipment, software, leasehold improvements, capitalized website and internal-use software development costs, and amortization of purchased intangible assets. Depreciation expense decreased $3.2 million in 2024 compared to 2023, primarily due to a decrease in depreciation expense of leasehold improvements from asset retirements related to lease abandonments and expirations as well as certain other assets becoming fully depreciated since the prior-year period. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in amortization expense of $1.4 million related to intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition of RepairPal. See Note 8, Acquisition, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. Other Income, Net Other income, net consists primarily of the interest income earned on our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, research and development tax credits, the portion of our sublease income in excess of our lease cost, accretion of discounts and amortization of premiums on investments, credit facility fees, foreign exchange gains and losses, and, in the year ended December 31, 2024, the release of a reserve related to a one-time payroll tax credit. Other income, net increased in 2024 compared to 2023 due to the release of a $3.1 million reserve related to a one-time payroll tax credit, higher tax incentives of $1.9 million related to research and development activity in the United Kingdom, and $1.8 million of higher interest income earned on our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities primarily due to higher federal interest rates. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists of: federal and state income taxes in the United States and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions; deferred income taxes reflecting the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. The increase in the provision for income taxes in 2024 compared to the prior year was primarily driven by an increase in profit before tax as well as a decrease in the discrete tax benefits related to the federal and state tax provision to return adjustments. As of December 31, 2024, we had approximately $139.6 million in net deferred tax assets (DTAs). As of December 31, 2024, we consider it more likely than not that we will have sufficient taxable income in the future that will allow us to realize these DTAs. However, it is possible that some or all of these DTAs will not be realized. Therefore, unless we are able to 56 Table of Contents generate sufficient taxable income from our operations, a substantial valuation allowance may be required to reduce our DTAs, which would materially increase our expenses in the period in which we recognize the allowance and have a materially adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements. The exact timing and amount of the valuation allowance recognition are subject to change on the basis of the net income that we are able to actually achieve. We will continue to evaluate the possible recognition of a valuation allowance on a quarterly basis. We continue to estimate that our effective GAAP tax rate (before discrete items) for 2025 will be in the range of 24% to 28%. However, our GAAP tax rate is impacted by a number of factors that are not in our direct control and that are subject to quarterly variability, which limits our visibility into the applicable rate for future fiscal periods. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. However, we have also disclosed below adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin and free cash flow, each of which is a non-GAAP financial measure. We have included adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin and free cash flow because they are key measures used by our management and Board to understand and evaluate our operating performance and trends, to prepare and approve our annual budget, to develop short- and long-term operational plans, and to assess our sources of liquidity. In particular, the exclusion of certain expenses in calculating adjusted EBITDA can provide a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons of our primary business operations, while free cash flow provides information about the quality of our earnings. Accordingly, we believe that adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin and free cash flow provide useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and Board. Adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow have limitations as analytical tools, and you should not consider them in isolation or as substitutes for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. In particular, adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow should not be viewed as substitutes for, or superior to, net income (loss) or net cash provided by (used in) operating activities prepared in accordance with GAAP as measures of profitability or liquidity. Some of these limitations are: although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future, and adjusted EBITDA does not reflect all cash capital expenditure requirements for such replacements or for new capital expenditure requirements; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect the impact of the recording or release of valuation allowances or tax payments that may represent a reduction in cash available to us; adjusted EBITDA does not consider the potentially dilutive impact of equity-based compensation; adjusted EBITDA does not take into account any income or costs that management determines are not indicative of ongoing operating performance, such as material litigation settlements, impairment charges, acquisition and integration costs, and fees related to shareholder activism; free cash flow does not represent the total residual cash flow available for discretionary purposes because it does not reflect our contractual commitments or obligations; and other companies, including those in our industry, may calculate adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow differently, which reduces their usefulness as comparative measures. Because of these limitations, you should consider adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin and free cash flow alongside other financial performance measures, including net income (loss), net cash provided by (used in) operating activities and our other GAAP results. Adjusted EBITDA. Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure that we calculate as net income (loss), adjusted to exclude: provision for (benefit from) income taxes; other income, net; depreciation and amortization; stock-based compensation expense; and, in certain periods, certain other income and expense items that management determines are not indicative of ongoing operating performance, such as material litigation settlements, impairment charges, acquisition and integration costs, and fees related to shareholder activism. 57 Table of Contents Adjusted EBITDA margin. Adjusted EBITDA margin is a non-GAAP financial measure that we calculate as adjusted EBITDA divided by net revenue. The following is a reconciliation of net income to adjusted EBITDA, as well as the calculation of net income margin and adjusted EBITDA margin, for the periods presented (in thousands, except percentages): Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 Reconciliation of Net Income to Adjusted EBITDA: Net income $ 132,850 $ 99,173 Provision for income taxes 50,110 5,909 Other income, net(1) (31,915) (26,039) Depreciation and amortization 40,407 42,184 Stock-based compensation 158,193 173,451 Litigation settlement(2)(3) 11,000 Asset impairment(2) 5,914 23,563 Acquisition and integration costs(2) 1,266 Fees related to shareholder activism(2) 1,168 1,252 Adjusted EBITDA $ 357,993 $ 330,493 Net revenue $ 1,412,064 $ 1,337,062 Net income margin 9 % 7 % Adjusted EBITDA margin 25 % 25 % (1) Includes the release of a $3.1 million reserve related to a one-time payroll tax credit in the year ended December 31, 2024. (2) Recorded within general and administrative expenses on our consolidated statements of operations. (3) Represents the loss contingency recorded in connection with our agreement to settle the CIPA Action. Note that this amount does not include any legal fee reimbursements that we expect to receive related to this matter; we do not adjust for legal fees and related reimbursements, which we consider to be part of our ongoing operations. See Note 14, Commitments and Contingencies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for additional information. Free Cash Flow. Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure that we calculate as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, less cash used for purchases of property, equipment and software. The following is a reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow for the periods presented (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 Reconciliation of Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities to Free Cash Flow: Net cash provided by operating activities $ 285,815 $ 306,280 Purchases of property, equipment and software (37,347) (26,847) Free cash flow $ 248,468 $ 279,433 Net cash used in investing activities $ (77,266) $ (54,684) Net cash used in financing activities $ (303,802) $ (246,778) 58 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and cash generated from operations. As of December 31, 2024, we had cash and cash equivalents of $217.3 million and marketable securities of $100.6 million. Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash, money market funds and investments with original maturities of three month or less. Our cash held internationally as of December 31, 2024 was $54.0 million. As of December 31, 2024, we also had $10.0 million of investments in certificates of deposit with minority depository institutions. Our investment portfolio comprises highly rated marketable securities that are classified as available-for-sale on our consolidated balance sheets, and our investment policy limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. The policy generally requires securities to be investment grade (i.e., rated A or higher by bond rating firms) with the objective of minimizing the potential risk of principal loss. On April 28, 2023, we entered into the Credit Agreement, which provides for a five-year $125.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility (the credit facility). The credit facility includes a $25.0 million letter of credit sub-limit, a $25.0 million bilateral letter of credit facility and an accordion option, which, if exercised, would allow us to increase the aggregate commitments by up to $250.0 million, plus additional amounts if we are able to satisfy a leverage test, subject to certain conditions. The credit facility provides us with the ability to access backup liquidity to fund working capital and for other capital requirements, as needed. As of December 31, 2024, we were in compliance with all covenants and there were no loans outstanding under the credit facility. We had $14.0 million of letters of credit under the sub-limit primarily related to lease agreements for certain office locations, which are required to be maintained and issued to the landlords of each facility, and $111.0 million remained available under the credit facility as of December 31, 2024. For additional details regarding the credit facility, see Note 14, Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Material Cash Requirements Our future capital requirements and the adequacy of available funds will depend on many factors, including those set forth under Risk Factors in this Annual Report. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, together with any cash generated from operations, will be sufficient to meet our material cash requirements in the next 12 months and beyond, including: working capital requirements; our anticipated repurchases of common stock pursuant to our stock repurchase program; payment of taxes related to the net share settlement of equity awards; payment of lease costs related to our operating leases; the potential payment of a higher amount of income taxes in 2025 and beyond due to, among other things, the requirement to capitalize and amortize certain research and development expenses under the Tax Act and the other factors discussed in Results of Operations Provision for Income Taxes above; and purchases of property, equipment and software and website hosting services. However, this estimate is based on a number of assumptions that may prove to be materially different and we could fully utilize our available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities earlier than presently anticipated. We are not able to reasonably estimate the timing of future cash flows related to $44.0 million of uncertain tax positions. We may be required to draw down funds from our credit facility or seek additional funds through equity or debt financings to respond to business challenges associated with the uncertain macroeconomic environment or other challenges, including the need to develop new features and products or enhance existing services, improve our operating infrastructure or acquire complementary businesses and technologies. We lease office facilities under operating lease agreements that expire from 2025 to 2031. Our cash requirements related to these lease agreements are $46.6 million, of which $22.2 million is expected to be paid within the next 12 months. The total lease obligations are partially offset by our future minimum rental receipts to be received under non-cancelable subleases of $18.3 million. See Note 10, Leases, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on our operating lease obligations. Our cash requirements related to purchase obligations consisting of non-cancelable agreements to purchase goods and services required in the ordinary course of business primarily website hosting services are approximately $181.2 million, of which approximately $91.3 million is expected to be paid within the next 12 months. The cost of capital associated with any additional funds sought in the future might be adversely impacted by the effects of macroeconomic conditions on our business. Additionally, amounts deposited with third-party financial institutions exceed the 59 Table of Contents Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and Securities Investor Protection Corporation insurance limits, as applicable. These cash and cash equivalents could be impacted if the underlying financial institutions fail or are subjected to other adverse conditions in the financial markets. To date, we have experienced no loss or lack of access to our cash and cash equivalents; however, we can provide no assurances that access to our invested cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 285,815 $ 306,280 Net cash used in investing activities $ (77,266) $ (54,684) Net cash used in financing activities $ (303,802) $ (246,778) Operating Activities. Net cash provided by operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2024 decreased by $20.5 million compared to 2023, primarily due to an increase of $27.6 million in income taxes paid, an increase of $25.7 million in payments to vendors, and higher employee-related payments of $18.2 million for salaries, commissions, bonuses and benefits, mainly due to higher cost of labor as well as a shift towards a compensation mix that emphasizes cash over equity. The higher cash outflow was also driven by the payment of $15.0 million to settle the CIPA Action in 2024, as well as other cash payments that were not individually significant. These cash outflows were partially offset by an increase of $79.9 million in cash collected from customers primarily due to the increase in revenue. Investing Activities. Net cash used in investing activities during the year ended December 31, 2024 increased compared to 2023 primarily due to our acquisition of RepairPal as well as an increase in capitalized website and internal-use software development costs. These increases were partially offset by net sales and maturities of marketable securities during the year ended December 31, 2024 compared to net purchases of marketable securities in 2023. Financing Activities. Net cash used in financing activities during the year ended December 31, 2024 increased compared to 2023 primarily due to an increase in repurchases of our common stock and a decrease in proceeds from stock option exercises, partially offset by a decrease in taxes paid related to the net share settlement of equity awards during the year ended December 31, 2024 compared to 2023. Stock Repurchase Program Since the initial authorization of our stock repurchase program in July 2017, our Board has authorized us to repurchase up to an aggregate of $1.95 billion of our outstanding common stock, including the $500.0 million authorized in February 2024, of which $304.7 million remained available for future repurchases on February 18, 2025. We may repurchase shares at our discretion in the open market, privately negotiated transactions, in transactions structured through investment banking institutions, or a combination of the foregoing. The program is not subject to any time limit and may be modified, suspended or discontinued at any time. The amount and timing of repurchases are subject to a variety of factors, including liquidity, cash flow and market conditions. During the year ended December 31, 2024, we repurchased 6,686,518 shares on the open market for an aggregate purchase price of $250.9 million. We have funded all repurchases to date and expect to fund any future repurchases with cash and cash equivalents available on our consolidated balance sheet. 60 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from those estimates. Due to macroeconomic conditions and other factors, certain estimates and assumptions have required and may continue to require increased judgment and carry a higher degree of variability and volatility. As events continue to evolve and additional information becomes available, these estimates may change materially in future periods. We consider the estimates discussed below to be critical as we believe that the assumptions and estimates associated with these policies have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements. For further information on these and our other significant accounting estimates, see Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Revenue RecognitionWe generate revenue from the sale of advertising products and other revenue sources, which correspond to our major product lines. We recognize revenue by applying the following steps: the contract with the customer is identified; the performance obligations in the contract are identified; the transaction price is determined; the transaction price is allocated to the performance obligations in the contract; and revenue is recognized when (or as) we satisfy these performance obligations in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those services. We apply the portfolio practical expedient to account for contracts with customers in each category of revenue. We do not disclose the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for (i) contracts with an original expected length of one year or less and (ii) contracts for which the amount of revenue we recognize is equal to the amount we have a right to invoice. We perform estimates and apply judgment when determining the amount of revenue to be recognized and may accept lower consideration than what is agreed to in the relevant contract. We refer to the difference between the agreed upon consideration amount and the actual consideration estimated to be received as variable consideration; types of variable consideration include cash-based incentives, credits and refunds that are estimated based on historical information as well as considering economic conditions, which constrain the revenue. For all contracts with customers, estimates and assumptions include determining variable consideration and identifying the nature and timing of satisfaction of performance obligations. We believe that there will not be significant changes to our estimates of variable consideration. To date, actual amounts of consideration received have been materially consistent with the provisions we have made based on our historical estimates. For contracts satisfied over time, we apply the invoice practical expedient to depict the value transferred to the customer and measure of progress towards completion of its obligations. We consider the right to receive consideration from a customer to correspond directly with the value to the customer of our performance completed to date. We do not consider the effects of the time value of money as substantially all of our contracts are invoiced on a monthly basis, one month in arrears. For revenue generated from arrangements that involve third parties, considerable judgment may be required in evaluating whether we are the principal, and report revenue on a gross basis, or the agent, and report revenue on a net basis. In this assessment, we consider whether we obtain control of the specified goods or services before they are transferred to the customer as well as other indicators, such as whether we are the party primarily responsible for the fulfillment, inventory risk and discretion in establishing price. The assessment of whether we are considered the principal or agent in a transaction could impact our revenue and cost of revenue recognized on our consolidated statements of operations. Changes in judgments with respect to assumptions and estimates could impact the amount of revenue recognized. Website and Internal-Use Software Development CostsCosts related to website and internal-use software are primarily related to our website and mobile app, including support systems. We capitalize our costs to develop software when: preliminary development efforts are successfully completed; management has authorized and committed project funding; and it is probable that the project will be completed and the software will be used as intended. We use judgment to determine which projects will be capitalized and the estimated useful life over which the related asset will be amortized. Costs incurred for enhancements that are expected to result in additional material functionality are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life of the upgrades. Such costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the related asset, which is generally three years. This estimated useful life of three years has not historically changed and actual useful lives have been materially consistent with our estimates. While we do not believe that there is a reasonable likelihood of material change in our estimates, factors including obsolescence, the pace of changes in technology, changes in the expected use of the software, competition and other economic factors could require us to change the estimated useful life, which would result in a change to the amount of amortization that we record on our consolidated statements of operations. 61 Table of Contents Business CombinationsWe account for acquisitions of entities that consist of inputs and processes that have the ability to contribute to the creation of outputs as business combinations. We allocate the purchase price of the acquisition to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values. Such valuations require management to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. Significant estimates in valuing certain intangible assets include, but are not limited to, forecasted revenue and expenses, customer attrition rate, royalty rates and discount rates. The excess of the purchase price over the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recorded as goodwill. Acquisition and integration costs are expensed as incurred. During the measurement period, which is not to exceed one year from the acquisition date, we may record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill. After the measurement period, subsequent adjustments are reflected on our consolidated statements of operations. Income TaxesSignificant judgment is required to determine our provision for (benefit from) for income taxes and income tax assets and liabilities, including evaluating uncertainties in the application of accounting principles, complex tax laws, or variances between our actual and anticipated operating results. Therefore, actual income taxes could materially vary from these estimates. We record income taxes using the asset and liability method, which requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. In estimating future tax consequences, we generally consider all expected future events other than enactments or changes in the tax law or rates. In assessing the realization of deferred tax assets, we consider whether it is more likely than not that all or some portion of deferred tax assets will not be realized. The ultimate realization of the deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. Valuation allowances are provided to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In determining the need for a valuation allowance, the weight given to positive and negative evidence is commensurate with the extent to which the evidence may be objectively verified. The determination of future taxable income requires significant judgment and relies on various estimates and assumptions using forecasted amounts. Changes in various factors, including economic and political conditions, could drive actual results in future years to differ from our current assumptions, judgments and estimates. We evaluate the ability to realize net deferred tax assets and the related valuation allowance on a quarterly basis. We operate in various tax jurisdictions and are subject to audit by various tax authorities. We provide for tax contingencies whenever it is deemed probable that a tax asset has been impaired or a tax liability has been incurred for events such as tax claims or changes in tax laws. Tax contingencies are based upon their technical merits, relative tax law and the specific facts and circumstances as of each reporting period. Changes in facts and circumstances could result in material changes to the amounts recorded for such tax contingencies. We recognize a tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position are then measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. However, the outcome of tax audits cannot be predicted with certainty. If any issues addressed in our tax audits are resolved in a manner not consistent with our expectations, we could be required to adjust our provision for income taxes in the period such resolution occurs.