Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024, filed with the SEC on March 13, 2024. As discussed in the section titled "Special Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements," the following discussion and analysis contains forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions that, if they never materialize or prove incorrect, could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section titled "Risk Factors" under Part II, Item 1A in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview Yext empowers businesses to manage their knowledge so they can deliver relevant, actionable answers to consumer questions as well as consistent, accurate and engaging experiences to customers throughout the digital ecosystem. Our digital presence platform (also known as the Answers Platform) lets businesses structure and organize information about their brands in our knowledge graph, Yext Content (also known as the Knowledge Graph), which is then delivered across first-and third-party websites and applications through our network of over 200 service and application providers, which we refer to as our Publisher Network. These publishers include, among others, Amazon Alexa, Apple, Bing, Facebook, Google Business Profile, and Yelp. Our platform powers all of our key products, including Listings, Reviews, Pages and Search, each with robust analytics capabilities for businesses to easily track performance across customer experiences. It is our mission to empower businesses to easily manage every aspect of their digital presence to make meaningful connections with their customers across every digital touchpoint. We sell our platform throughout the world to customers of all sizes, including our enterprise, mid-size, and third-party reseller customers. In transactions with resellers, we are only party to the transaction with the reseller and are not a party to the reseller's transaction with its customer. Revenue is a function of the number of customers, the number of licenses or capacity purchased by each customer, the package to which each customer subscribes, the price of the package and renewal rates. We offer subscriptions in a discrete range of packages, with pricing based on specified feature sets and the number of licenses managed by the customer as well as on a capacity-basis. Fiscal Year Our fiscal year ends on January 31st. References to fiscal 2025, for example, are to the fiscal year ending January 31, 2025. Macroeconomic Conditions Our results of operations have been and may continue to be influenced by general macroeconomic conditions, including, but not limited to, the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, interest rates, inflation, recession risks and public health emergencies, such as the COVID-19 pandemic. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and rising inflation have had, and may continue to have an adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results in future periods. The extent to which such disruptions will continue in future periods remains uncertain, which has had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results in future periods. We continue to be committed to our business, the strength of our platform, our ability to continue to execute on our strategy, and our efforts to support our customers. Near-term revenues are relatively predictable as a result of our subscription-based business model. However, if the macroeconomic uncertainty continues or further increases, we may continue to experience a negative impact on existing and potential customers, that may reduce, suspend or delay technology spending, request to renegotiate contracts to obtain concessions such as, extended billing and payment terms; shorten the duration of contracts; or elect not to renew their subscriptions which could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations in future periods. Therefore, changes in our contracting activity in the near term may not be fully reflected in our results of operations and overall financial performance until future periods. On June 4, 2024, we committed to a restructuring plan in response to evolving business needs to reduce operating expenses and position Yext for profitable future growth (the Plan). The Plan will reduce the size of our workforce by approximately 12 percent of our full-time employees as compared to our headcount as of January 31, 2024. We estimate that we will incur restructuring charges of approximately $5 million in connection with the Plan, consisting primarily of severance payments, payments in lieu of notice, employee benefits and related costs. We expect to incur the majority of these expenses in the second quarter of fiscal year 2025. Potential position eliminations are subject to legal requirements that vary by jurisdiction, which may extend this process beyond the second quarter of fiscal year 2025 in certain cases. The charges that we expect to incur are subject to a number of assumptions, including legal requirements in various jurisdictions, and actual expenses may differ materially from these estimates. Following approval by our Board of Directors, on June 10, 2024, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement) for the acquisition of Hearsay Social, Inc. (Hearsay) pursuant to which we will acquire Hearsay for a purchase price of $125 million in cash, subject to customary adjustments (the Closing Consideration). Total cash subject to the Closing Consideration will be reduced by Hearsay employee equity awards assumed by us. We will also offer participation rights to key employees and former founders of Hearsay in a bonus pool of $20 million that can be settled in cash or our common stock and shall be subject to 100% vesting on the first anniversary of closing, generally subject to continued employment subject to customary exceptions for cause 18 or good reason termination. In addition, subject to the terms of the Merger Agreement, we may also be required to pay additional contingent consideration of up to $75 million to Hearsay based on the achievement of certain milestones (the Earnout Consideration) payable based on achievement of certain annual recurring revenue targets. The targets shall be measured at the end of the first and second anniversaries of closing. The Earnout Consideration may be settled in cash or Yext common stock (based on then current market price) at our election. The closing of the merger with Hearsay is expected in the second half of our fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 subject to the satisfaction of certain customary closing conditions including regulatory approvals. See Part II Item 1A Risk Factors for further discussion of the possible impact of the current macroeconomic conditions on our business. Key Metrics We monitor the following key operational and financial metrics to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, formulate business plans and make strategic decisions. Customer Count Customer count is defined as the total number of customers with contracts executed as of the last day of the reporting period and a unique administrative account identifier on our platform. Generally, we assign unique administrative accounts to each separate and distinct entity (such as a company or government institution) or a business unit of a large corporation, that has its own separate contract with us to access our platform. We believe that customer count provides insight into our ability to grow our enterprise and mid-size customer base. As such, customer count excludes third-party reseller customers and small business customers as well as customers only receiving free trials. From time to time, some customers previously characterized as small business customers may transition to mid-size customers, and customer count includes these changes resulting from any recharacterization. As of April 30, 2024, customer count was over 2,990. Annual Recurring Revenue ("ARR") Annual recurring revenue, or ARR, for Direct customers is defined as the annualized recurring amount of all contracts in our enterprise, mid-size and small business customer base as of the last day of the reporting period. The recurring amount of a contract is determined based upon the terms of a contract and is calculated by dividing the amount of a contract by the term of the contract and then annualizing such amount. The calculation assumes no subsequent changes to the existing subscription. Contracts include portions of professional services contracts that are recurring in nature. ARR for Third-party Reseller customers is defined as the annualized recurring amount of all contracts with Third-party Reseller customers as of the last day of the reporting period. The recurring amount of a contract is determined based upon the terms of a contract and is calculated by dividing the amount of a contract by the term of the contract and then annualizing such amount. The calculation assumes no subsequent changes to the existing subscription. The calculation includes the annualized contractual minimum commitment and excludes amounts related to overages above the contractual minimum commitment. Contracts include portions of professional services contracts that are recurring in nature. See Part II Item 1A Risk Factors" for further discussion of Third-party reseller customers. Total ARR is defined as the annualized recurring amount of all contracts executed as of the last day of the reporting period. The recurring amount of a contract is determined based upon the terms of a contract and is calculated by dividing the amount of a contract by the term of the contract and then annualizing such amount. The calculation assumes no subsequent changes to the existing subscription, and where relevant, includes the annualized contractual minimum commitment and excludes amounts related to overages above the contractual minimum commitment. Contracts include portions of professional services contracts that are recurring in nature. ARR is independent of historical revenue, unearned revenue, remaining performance obligations or any other accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, ("GAAP"), financial measure over any period. It should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, nor superior to or in isolation from, these measures and other measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe ARR-based metrics provides insight into the performance of our recurring revenue business model while mitigating fluctuations in billing and contract terms. The following table provides our ARR for the periods presented: April 30, Variance 2024 2023 Dollars Percent (in thousands) Direct Customers(1) $ 312,060 $ 326,058 $ (13,998) (4) % Third-Party Reseller Customers 70,528 72,232 (1,704) (2) % Total Annual Recurring Revenue $ 382,588 $ 398,290 $ (15,702) (4) % 19 (1)ARR as of April 30 2024 includes a decrease of $10.8 million related to the attrition of a large customer, which occurred during the three months ended January 31, 2024. Dollar-Based Net Retention Rate We believe that our ability to retain our customers and expand the ARR they generate for us over time is an important component of our growth strategy and reflects the long term value of our customer relationships. We assess our performance in this area using a metric we refer to as our dollar-based net retention rate, which compares the ARR from a set of subscription customers across comparable periods. This metric is calculated first by determining the ARR generated 12 months prior to the end of the current period for a cohort of customers who had active contracts at that time. We then calculate ARR from the same cohort of customers at the end of the current period, which includes customer expansion, contraction and churn. The current period ARR is then divided by the prior period ARR to arrive at our dollar-based net retention rate. The cohorts of customers that we present dollar-based net retention rate for include direct, third-party reseller, and total customers. Direct customers include enterprise, mid-size and small business customers. The following table provides our dollar-based net retention rate for the periods presented: April 30, 2024 2023 Direct Customers (1) 91% 97% Third-Party Reseller Customers 94% 92% Total Customers 91% 96% (1) Dollar-Based Net Retention Rate as of April 30, 2024 reflects the attrition of a large customer, which occurred during the three months ended January 31, 2024 20 Components of Results of Operations Revenue We derive our revenue primarily from subscription and associated support to our platform. Our contracts are typically one year in length, but may be up to three years or longer in length. Revenue is a function of the number of customers, the number of licenses or capacity purchased by each customer, the package to which each customer subscribes, the price of the package and renewal rates. Revenue is generally recognized ratably over the contract term beginning on the commencement date of each contract, which is the date our platform is made available to customers. At the beginning of each subscription term we invoice our customers, typically in annual installments, but also monthly, quarterly, and semi-annually. Amounts that have been invoiced for non-cancelable contracts are recorded in accounts receivable and unearned revenue. Unearned revenue is subsequently recognized as revenue when transfer of control to a customer has occurred. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue consists primarily of employee-related costs, including personnel-related costs, which mainly consist of salaries and wages, and stock-based compensation expense. Cost of revenue also includes fees associated with our Publisher Network application provider arrangements, the nature of which may be unpaid, fixed, or variable, and are unpaid with many of our larger providers, as well as the costs associated with our data centers. In addition, cost of revenue includes depreciation expense, which includes amounts allocated based on employee headcount, as well as amounts related to certain capitalized software development costs incurred in connection with additional functionality to our platform. Cost of revenue also includes lease expenses associated with our office spaces, which are allocated based on employee headcount. In addition, cost of revenue includes software expense, which relates to licenses, professional services, and other costs associated with software for use in the operations of our business, which is also allocated based on employee headcount. Operating Expenses Sales and marketing expenses. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of employee-related costs which are comprised of personnel-related costs and stock-based compensation expense. Personnel-related costs mainly consist of salaries and wages and costs of obtaining revenue contracts. Sales and marketing expenses also include lease expenses associated with our office spaces, as well as software expense, each of which are allocated based on employee headcount. In addition, sales and marketing expenses include costs related to advertising and conferences and brand awareness events. Research and development expenses. Research and development expenses consist primarily of employee-related costs which are comprised of personnel-related costs and stock-based compensation expense. Personnel-related costs mainly consist of salaries and wages. Capitalized software development costs related to additional functionality to our platform are excluded from research and development expenses as they are capitalized as a component of property and equipment, net and depreciated to cost of revenue over the term of their useful life. Research and development expenses also include data centers costs associated with pre-production costs for testing and quality assurance, as well as lease expenses associated with our office spaces, and software expense, each of which are allocated based on employee headcount. General and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of employee-related costs which are comprised of personnel-related costs and stock-based compensation expense for our finance and accounting, human resources, information technology and legal support departments. Personnel-related costs mainly consist of salaries and wages. General and administrative expenses also include lease expenses associated with our office spaces, as well as software expense, each of which are allocated based on employee headcount, and other professional related costs. 21 Results of Operations The following table sets forth selected condensed consolidated statement of operations data for each of the periods indicated: Three months ended April 30, (in thousands) 2024 2023 Revenue $ 95,990 $ 99,453 Cost of revenue(1) 21,546 21,350 Gross profit 74,444 78,103 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing(1) 43,254 43,996 Research and development(1) 17,059 16,753 General and administrative(1) 19,557 18,586 Total operating expenses 79,870 79,335 Loss from operations (5,426) (1,232) Interest income 2,360 1,534 Interest expense (392) (73) Other expense, net (138) (320) Loss from operations before income taxes (3,596) (91) Provision for income taxes (221) (321) Net loss $ (3,817) $ (412) (1)Amounts include stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three months ended April 30, (in thousands) 2024 2023 Cost of revenue $ 688 $ 644 Sales and marketing 2,751 3,819 Research and development 2,783 2,795 General and administrative 5,843 3,754 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 12,065 $ 11,012 The following table sets forth selected condensed consolidated statements of operations data for each of the periods indicated as a percentage of total revenue: Three months ended April 30, 2024 2023 Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 22 21 Gross profit 77.6 78.5 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 45 44 Research and development 18 17 General and administrative 20 19 Total operating expenses 83 80 Loss from operations (6) (1) Interest income 2 1 Interest expense Other expense, net Loss from operations before income taxes (4) Provision for income taxes Net loss (4) % % Note: Numbers rounded for presentation purposes and may not sum. 22 Three Months Ended April 30, 2024 Compared to Three Months Ended April 30, 2023 Revenue Three months ended April 30, Variance (in thousands) 2024 2023 Dollars Percent Revenue $ 95,990 $ 99,453 $ (3,463) (3) % Cost of revenue 21,546 21,350 $ 196 1 % Gross profit $ 74,444 $ 78,103 $ (3,659) (5) % Gross margin 77.6 % 78.5 % Total revenue was $96.0 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024, compared to $99.5 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023, a decrease of $3.5 million or 3%, primarily driven by the attrition of a large customer that occurred during the three months ended January 31, 2024. This decrease was partially offset by the impact of foreign currency exchange rates as discussed below. During the three months ended April 30, 2024 and 2023, revenue recognized from subscription and associated support to our platform was 93%, while revenue recognized from professional services was 7%, compared to 91% and 9%, respectively. Revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2024, included a positive impact from foreign currency exchange rates of approximately $0.3 million, using a constant currency basis. We calculate constant currency by translating our current period results for entities reporting in currencies other than U.S. Dollars (USD) into USD at the average monthly exchange rates in effect during the comparative period, as opposed to the average monthly exchange rates in effect during the current period. The following table summarizes our revenue by sales channel for the periods presented: Three months ended April 30, Variance 2024 2023 Dollars Percent (in thousands) Direct Customers $ 77,435 $ 80,045 $ (2,610) (3) % Third-Party Reseller Customers 18,555 19,408 (853) (4) % Total Revenue $ 95,990 $ 99,453 $ (3,463) (3) % Revenue attributable to direct customers was $77.4 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024, compared to $80.0 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023. The decrease of $2.6 million, or 3%, was primarily driven by the attrition of a large customer that occurred during the three months ended January 31, 2024. Revenue attributable to third-party reseller customers was $18.6 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024, compared to $19.4 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023, a decrease of $0.9 million or 4%, primarily due to customer attrition. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Cost of revenue was $21.5 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024, compared to $21.4 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023, an increase of $0.2 million or 1%. The increase was primarily driven by personnel-related costs which increased $0.6 million, reflecting higher headcount. In addition, professional related costs increased $0.4 million and data center costs increased $0.3 million. These increases were partially offset by depreciation expense, which decreased $1.0 million as certain assets have fully depreciated. Gross margin was 77.6% for the three months ended April 30, 2024, compared to 78.5% for the three months ended April 30, 2023 as reflected in the discussion above. Operating Expenses Three months ended April 30, Variance (in thousands) 2024 2023 Dollars Percent Sales and marketing $ 43,254 $ 43,996 $ (742) (2) % Research and development $ 17,059 $ 16,753 $ 306 2 % General and administrative $ 19,557 $ 18,586 $ 971 5 % Sales and marketing expense was $43.3 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024, compared to $44.0 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023, a decrease of $0.7 million or 2%. The decrease was primarily driven by employee-related costs, as stock-based compensation expense decreased $1.1 million, reflecting lower headcount, and smaller decreases in depreciation expense among others. These decreases were partially offset by a $0.6 million increase in conference and events costs. 23 Research and development expense was $17.1 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024, compared to $16.8 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023, an increase of $0.3 million or 2%. The increase was primarily driven by a $0.8 millionincrease in personnel-related costs, reflecting higher headcount. This increase was partially offset by a $0.3 million decrease in professional related costs as well as smaller decreases in depreciation expense, among others. General and administrative expense was $19.6 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024, compared to $18.6 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023, an increase of $1.0 million or 5%. The increase was primarily driven by a $2.1 million increase in stock-based compensation expense, mainly due to performance-based restricted stock units granted in fiscal year 2024. This increase was partially offset by a $0.9 million decrease in bad debt expense, as well as smaller decreases in depreciation expense, among others. Net Loss Net loss was $3.8 million and $0.4 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to our financial results determined in accordance with GAAP, we believe that certain non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating our operating performance and our business. Non-GAAP net income (loss) is a financial measure that is not calculated in accordance with GAAP. We define non-GAAP net income (loss) as our GAAP net income (loss) as adjusted to exclude the effects of stock-based compensation expense and the related income tax effect of the foregoing adjustments. We believe non-GAAP net income (loss) provides investors and other users of our financial information consistency and comparability with our past financial performance and facilitates period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations. We also believe non-GAAP net income (loss) is useful in evaluating our operating performance compared to that of other companies in our industry, as it eliminates the effects of stock-based compensation, which may vary for reasons unrelated to overall operating performance. In addition, beginning in fiscal 2025, we are utilizing a projected tax rate of 25% in our computation of the non-GAAP income tax provision. Our estimated tax rate on non-GAAP income is determined annually and may be adjusted during the year to take into account events or trends that we believe materially impact the estimated annual rate including, but not limited to, significant changes resulting from tax legislation, material changes in the geographic mix of revenue and expenses and other significant events. Our estimated tax rate on non-GAAP income may differ from our GAAP tax rate and from our actual tax liabilities. We use non-GAAP net income (loss) in conjunction with traditional GAAP net income (loss) as part of our overall assessment of our performance, including the preparation of our annual operating budget and quarterly forecasts, and to evaluate the effectiveness of our business strategies. Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure that we believe offers a useful view of overall operations used to assess the performance of core business operations and for planning purposes. We define Adjusted EBITDA as GAAP net income (loss) before (1) interest income (expense), net, (2) provision for income taxes, (3) depreciation and amortization, (4) other income (expense), net, and (5) stock-based compensation expense. The most directly comparable GAAP financial measure to Adjusted EBITDA is GAAP net income (loss). Users should consider the limitations of using Adjusted EBITDA, including the fact that this measure does not provide a complete measure of our operating performance. Adjusted EBITDA is not intended to purport to be an alternate to GAAP net income (loss) as a measure of operating performance. The definitions of our non-GAAP financial measures may differ from the definitions used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited. In addition, other companies may not publish this or similar metrics. Thus, our non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, nor superior to or in isolation from, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our non-GAAP financial measures may be limited in their usefulness because they do not present the full economic effect of the expenses mentioned above. We compensate for these limitations by providing a reconciliation of our non-GAAP financial measures to the most closely related GAAP financial measures. We encourage investors and others to review our financial information in its entirety, not to rely on any single financial measure and to view non-GAAP net income (loss) and Adjusted EBITDA (loss) in conjunction with GAAP net income (loss). 24 The following table reconciles our GAAP net loss to non-GAAP net income: Three months ended April 30, (in thousands) 2024 2023 GAAP net loss $ (3,817) $ (412) Plus: Stock-based compensation expense 12,065 11,012 Less: Tax adjustment(1) (1,896) Non-GAAP net income $ 6,352 $ 10,600 (1) Beginning in fiscal 2025, we are utilizing a projected tax rate of 25% in our computation of the non-GAAP income tax provision. Our estimated tax rate on non-GAAP income is determined annually and may be adjusted during the year to take into account events or trends that we believe materially impact the estimated annual rate including, but not limited to, significant changes resulting from tax legislation, material changes in the geographic mix of revenue and expenses and other significant events. Our estimated tax rate on non-GAAP income may differ from our GAAP tax rate and from our actual tax liabilities. The following table reconciles our GAAP net loss to Adjusted EBITDA: Three months ended April 30, (in thousands) 2024 2023 GAAP net loss $ (3,817) $ (412) Interest (income) expense (1,968) (1,461) Provision for income taxes 221 321 Depreciation and amortization 2,963 4,668 Other expense (income) 138 320 Stock-based compensation expense 12,065 11,012 Adjusted EBITDA $ 9,602 $ 14,448 Constant Currency We provide revenue, including year-over-year growth rates, adjusted to remove the impact of foreign currency rate fluctuations, which we refer to as constant currency. We believe providing revenue on a constant currency basis helps our investors to better understand our underlying performance, given the current macroeconomic environment. We calculate constant currency by using the current period results for entities reporting in currencies other than USD, which are then converted into USD at the average monthly exchange rates in effect during the comparative period, as opposed to the average monthly exchange rates in effect during the current period. Our definition may differ from the definitions used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited. In addition, other companies may not publish these or similar metrics. Thus, our revenue on a constant currency basis should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, nor superior to or in isolation from, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. We provide a reconciliation of revenue on a constant currency basis to the most closely related GAAP financial measure. We encourage investors and others to review our financial information in its entirety and to view revenue on a constant currency basis in conjunction with revenue on a GAAP basis. The following table provides a reconciliation of revenue on a GAAP basis to revenue on a constant currency basis: Three months ended April 30, (in thousands) 2024 2023 Growth Rates Revenue (GAAP) $ 95,990 $ 99,453 (3) % Effects of foreign currency rate fluctuations (324) Revenue on a constant currency basis (Non-GAAP) $ 95,666 (4) % Liquidity and Capital Resources As of April 30, 2024, our principal sources of liquidity were cash and cash equivalents of $246.1 million. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our projected operating requirements for at least the next 12 months. Our cash flows, including net cash used in or provided by operating activities, may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, due to the timing of billings, cash collections and lease payments, significant marketing events and related expenses, and other factors. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including those set forth under "Risk Factors". We may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services, technologies, and intellectual property rights. In addition, we may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that additional financing is required from outside 25 sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. Credit Arrangements On March 11, 2020, we entered into a credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) with Silicon Valley Bank (SVB). In January 2021, we amended the Credit Agreement which modified the conditions pursuant to which subsidiaries are required to become guarantors. On December 22, 2022, we entered into a second amendment (Amendment No. 2) to the Credit Agreement, dated March 11, 2020, collectively referred to as the Credit Facility. No significant debt issuance costs were incurred in association with the December 2022 Credit Facility. Amendment No. 2 amended the Credit Facility to, among other things (i) extend the maturity date of the Credit Facility to December 22, 2025, (ii) amend the interest rate provisions to replace LIBOR with SOFR as the interest rate benchmark, and (iii) amend the recurring revenue growth rate financial covenant. The Credit Facility provides for a senior secured revolving loan facility of up to $50.0 million that matures three years after the effective date, with the right subject to certain conditions to add an incremental revolving loan facility of up to $50.0 million in the aggregate. The three-year revolving loan facility provides for borrowings up to the amount of the facility with sub-limits of up to (i) $30.0 million to be available for the issuance of letters of credit and (ii) $10.0 million to be available for swingline loans. As amended, the revolving loans bear interest, at our election, at an annual rate based on SOFR or a base rate. Loans based on SOFR shall bear interest at a rate between SOFR plus 2.50% and SOFR plus 3.00%, depending on our average daily usage of the revolving loan facility and subject to a SOFR floor of 1.00%. Loans based on the base rate shall bear interest at a rate between the base rate minus 0.50% and the base rate plus 0.00%, depending on our average daily usage of the revolving loan facility. We are also obligated to pay a commitment fee on the unused portion of the facility at a rate of 0.25% per annum. The obligations under the Credit Facility are secured by a lien on substantially all of our tangible and intangible property and by a pledge of all of our equity interests of material direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries and 66% of each class of capital stock of any material first-tier foreign subsidiaries, subject to limited exceptions. The Credit Facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants and restrictions, as well as financial covenants that require us to maintain the year-over-year growth rate of its recurring revenue for a trailing four fiscal quarter period above specified rates when certain liquidity thresholds are not met and to maintain a consolidated quick ratio of at least 1.50 to 1.00 tested on a monthly basis. As of April 30, 2024, we were in compliance with all debt covenants. As of such date, the $50.0 million revolving loan facility had $36.6 million available and $13.4 million in letters of credit allocated as security in connection with office space. Share Repurchase Program In March 2022, our Board of Directors authorized a $100.0 million share repurchase program of our common stock. In September 2023, our Board of Directors authorized an additional $50.0 million to the share repurchase program. During the three months ended April 30, 2024, no shares were purchased and as of April 30, 2024, $49.7 million remains available for future purchases. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows: Three months ended April 30, (in thousands) 2024 2023 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 38,309 $ 26,744 Net cash used in investing activities $ (647) $ (944) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities $ (1,174) $ 312 Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities of $38.3 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024 reflected our net loss of $3.8 million, adjusted by non-cash charges including stock-based compensation expense of $12.1 million, depreciation and amortization expense of $3.0 million, and amortization of operating lease right-of-use assets of $2.1 million. In addition, there were positive adjustments resulting from changes in accounts receivable of $54.3 million, mainly due to the timing of billing and cash collections during the period, as well as changes in costs to obtain revenue contracts of $4.3 million. These increases were partially offset by changes in unearned revenue of $26.7 million, as well as changes in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities of $4.0 million, and operating lease liabilities of $2.8 million. Net cash provided by operating activities of $26.7 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023 reflected our net loss of $0.4 million, adjusted by non-cash charges including stock-based compensation expense of $11.0 million, depreciation and amortization expense of $4.7 million, and amortization of operating lease right-of-use assets of $2.3 million. In addition, there were positive 26 adjustments resulting from changes in accounts receivable of $50.6 million, mainly due to timing of billing and cash collections during the period, as well as changes in costs to obtain revenue contracts of $3.3 million. These increases were partially offset by changes in unearned revenue of $27.3 million, as well as changes in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities of $15.0 million, operating lease liabilities of $2.9 million, and prepaid expenses and other current assets of $1.7 million. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities of $0.6 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024 reflected capital expenditures. Net cash used in investing activities of $0.9 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023 reflected capital expenditures. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities of $1.2 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024 was primarily related to $2.0 million in cash outflows associated with payments for taxes related to the net share settlement of stock-based compensation awards. This was partially offset by net proceeds from employee stock purchase plan withholdings of $0.9 million. Net cash provided by financing activities of $0.3 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023 reflected proceeds from exercise of stock options of $7.3 million as well as net proceeds from employee stock purchase plan withholdings of $0.9 million. These increases were partially offset by $4.6 million in cash outflows associated with repurchases of common stock as part of our share repurchase program, as well as payments for taxes related to the net share settlement of stock-based compensation awards of $3.2 million. Contractual Obligations See Note 11 "Commitments and Contingencies", to our condensed consolidated financial statements for further discussion on contractual obligations. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our management's discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported revenue generated and expenses incurred during the reporting periods. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about items that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies- Recent Accounting Pronouncements", to the condensed consolidated financial statements for our discussion about adopted and pending recent accounting pronouncements. 27