Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As discussed in the section titled "Special Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements," the following discussion and analysis contains forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions that, if they never materialize or prove incorrect, could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section titled "Risk Factors" under Part I, Item 1A in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Overview Yext empowers businesses to manage their knowledge so they can deliver relevant, actionable answers to consumer questions as well as consistent, accurate and engaging experiences to customers throughout the digital ecosystem. Our digital presence platform (also known as the Answers Platform) lets businesses structure and organize information about their brands in our knowledge graph, Yext Content (also known as the Knowledge Graph), which is then delivered across first-and third-party websites and applications through our network of over 200 service and application providers, which we refer to as our Publisher Network. These publishers include, among others, Amazon Alexa, Apple, Bing, Facebook, Google, and Yelp. Our platform powers all of our key products, including Listings, Reviews, Pages and Search, each with robust analytics capabilities for businesses to easily track performance across customer experiences. It is our mission to empower businesses to easily manage every aspect of their digital presence to make meaningful connections with their customers across every digital touchpoint. We sell our platform throughout the world to customers of all sizes, including our enterprise, mid-size, and third-party reseller customers. In transactions with resellers, we are only party to the transaction with the reseller and are not a party to the reseller's transaction with its customer. Revenue is a function of the number of customers, the number of licenses or capacity purchased by each customer, the package to which each customer subscribes, the price of the package and renewal rates. We offer subscriptions in a discrete range of packages, with pricing based on specified feature sets and the number of licenses managed by the customer as well as on a capacity-basis. In August 2024, we acquired Hearsay Social, Inc., a digital client engagement platform for financial services ("Hearsay"). See Note 4 "Business Combination" to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. Fiscal Year Our fiscal year ends on January 31st. References to fiscal 2025, for example, are to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025. Macroeconomic Conditions Our results of operations have been and may continue to be influenced by general macroeconomic conditions, including, but not limited to, the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, interest rates, inflation, recession risks, and geopolitical events and shifts. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and rising inflation have had, and may continue to have an adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results in future periods. The extent to which such disruptions will continue in future periods remains uncertain, which has had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results in future periods. We continue to be committed to our business, the strength of our platform, our ability to continue to execute on our strategy, and our efforts to support our customers. Near-term revenues are relatively predictable as a result of our subscription-based business model. However, if the macroeconomic uncertainty continues or further increases, we may continue to experience a negative impact on existing and potential customers that may reduce, suspend or delay technology spending, request to renegotiate contracts to obtain concessions such as, extended billing and payment terms; shorten the duration of contracts; or elect not to renew their subscriptions which could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations in future periods. Therefore, changes in our contracting activity in the near term may not be fully reflected in our results of operations and overall financial performance until future periods. Recent Developments On June 4, 2024, we committed to a restructuring plan in response to evolving business needs to reduce operating expenses and position Yext for profitable future growth (the Plan). The Plan reduced the size of our workforce by approximately 12 percent of our full-time employees as compared to our headcount as of January 31, 2024. We incurred approximately $5 million in costs in connection with the Plan during our second quarter of fiscal year 2025, consisting primarily of severance payments, payments in lieu of notice, employee benefits and related costs. Following approval by our Board of Directors, on June 10, 2024, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement) for the acquisition of Hearsay Social, Inc. (Hearsay). Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, Hearsay became a wholly owned subsidiary of Yext upon closing of the transaction on August 1, 2024. The acquisition of Hearsay is intended to produce an end-to-end digital presence platform, combining Yexts cutting-edge digital presence management capabilities with Hearsays compliant engagement solutions across social media, websites, text, and voice. We acquired Hearsay for approximately $125 million 44 in cash, as adjusted for customary adjustments set forth in the Merger Agreement and the assumption of Hearsay employee equity awards. We also offered participation rights to key employees and former founders of Hearsay in a bonus pool of $20 million that can be settled in cash or our common stock and shall be subject to 100% vesting on the first anniversary of closing, generally subject to continued employment. In addition, subject to the terms of the Merger Agreement, we may also be required to pay additional contingent consideration of up to $75 million to Hearsay based on the achievement of certain milestones (the Earnout). The Earnout shall be payable based on achievement of certain annual recurring revenue targets. The targets shall be measured at the end of the first and second anniversaries of closing. The Earnout may be settled in cash or our common stock at our election. See Note 4 "Business Combination" to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. On February 7, 2025, we completed an acquisition of KabanaSoft, LLC, doing business as Places Scout (Places Scout), for a purchase price of $20.3 million in cash, subject to customary adjustments as set forth in the Unit Purchase Agreement. The acquisition strengthens Yexts ability to provide best-in-class competitive intelligence, benchmarking, and AI-powered insights. In addition, subject to the terms of the Unit Purchase Agreement, we agreed to grant approximately $10.0 million of incentive equity, based on current trading prices of Yexts common stock, to certain key employees of Places Scout. See Part I Item 1A Risk Factors for further discussion of the possible impact of the current macroeconomic conditions on our business. Key Metrics We monitor the following key operational and financial metrics to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, formulate business plans and make strategic decisions. Annual Recurring Revenue ("ARR") Annual recurring revenue, or ARR, for Direct customers is defined as the annualized recurring amount of all contracts in our enterprise, mid-size and small business customer base as of the last day of the reporting period. The recurring amount of a contract is determined based upon the terms of a contract and is calculated by dividing the amount of a contract by the term of the contract and then annualizing such amount. The calculation assumes no subsequent changes to the existing subscription. Contracts include portions of professional services contracts that are recurring in nature. ARR for Third-party Reseller customers is defined as the annualized recurring amount of all contracts with Third-party Reseller customers as of the last day of the reporting period. The recurring amount of a contract is determined based upon the terms of a contract and is calculated by dividing the amount of a contract by the term of the contract and then annualizing such amount. The calculation assumes no subsequent changes to the existing subscription. The calculation includes the annualized contractual minimum commitment and amounts related to usage above the contractual minimum commitment. Contracts include portions of professional services contracts that are recurring in nature. See Part I Item 1A Risk Factors" for further discussion of Third-party reseller customers. Total ARR is defined as the annualized recurring amount of all contracts executed as of the last day of the reporting period. The recurring amount of a contract is determined based upon the terms of a contract and is calculated by dividing the amount of a contract by the term of the contract and then annualizing such amount. The calculation assumes no subsequent changes to the existing subscription, and where relevant, includes the annualized contractual minimum commitment and amounts related to usage above the contractual minimum commitment. Contracts include portions of professional services contracts that are recurring in nature. We calculate usage by annualizing monthly amounts in excess of contractual minimum commitments in the current month. ARR is independent of historical revenue, unearned revenue, remaining performance obligations or any other accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, ("GAAP"), financial measure over any period. It should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, nor superior to or in isolation from, these measures and other measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe ARR-based metrics provides insight into the performance of our recurring revenue business model while mitigating fluctuations in billing and contract terms. 45 The following table provides our ARR for the periods presented: January 31, Variance (in thousands) 2025 2024 Dollars Percent Direct Customers(1) $ 368,201 $ 315,594 $ 52,607 17 % Third-Party Reseller Customers 74,461 76,588 (2,127) (3) % Total Annual Recurring Revenue $ 442,662 $ 392,182 $ 50,480 13 % (1) ARR as of January 31, 2025 is inclusive of Hearsay's results. Change in ARR Methodology From time to time, we may refine our methodology of calculating our key performance metrics to better reflect our business. For example, beginning in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2025, we refined our ARR methodology to include usage to align with managements internal assessment of customers. Prior to that quarter, we had excluded what we previously referred to as overage. While this change may introduce additional volatility, we believe it provides a more comprehensive view of ARR that better aligns with the way we evaluate and manage our business. The amounts presented in the immediately preceding table have been restated to reflect our ARR presented on this current definition for periods previously disclosed that did not include overage. To accompany the transition to this new presentation, the following table presents our ARR for the periods presented as calculated using our prior definition of ARR, which excluded usage: January 31, Variance (in thousands) 2025 2024 Dollars Percent Direct Customers(1) $ 368,201 $ 315,594 $ 52,607 17 % Third-Party Reseller Customers 67,459 71,784 (4,325) (6) % Total Annual Recurring Revenue $ 435,660 $ 387,378 $ 48,282 12 % (1) ARR as of January 31, 2025 is inclusive of Hearsay's results. Dollar-Based Net Retention Rate We believe that our ability to retain our customers and expand the ARR they generate for us over time is an important component of our growth strategy and reflects the long term value of our customer relationships. We assess our performance in this area using a metric we refer to as our dollar-based net retention rate, which compares the ARR from a set of subscription customers across comparable periods. This metric is calculated first by determining the ARR generated 12 months prior to the end of the current period for a cohort of customers who had active contracts at that time. We then calculate ARR from the same cohort of customers at the end of the current period, which includes customer expansion, contraction and churn. The current period ARR is then divided by the prior period ARR to arrive at our dollar-based net retention rate. Any ARR obtained through merger and acquisition transactions does not affect the dollar-based net retention rate until one year from the date on which the transaction closed. The cohorts of customers that we present dollar-based net retention rate for include direct, third-party reseller, and total customers. Direct customers include enterprise, mid-size and small business customers. The following table provides our dollar-based net retention rate for the periods presented: January 31, 2025 2024 Direct Customers 92% 91% Third-Party Reseller Customers 95% 93% Total Customers 93% 92% Change in Dollar-Based Net Retention Rate Methodology From time to time, we may refine our methodology of calculating our key performance metrics to better reflect our business. For example, beginning in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2025, we refined our ARR calculation methodology to include usage. This update resulted in a corresponding change in our dollar-based net retention rate, which is based on ARR. While this change may 46 introduce additional variability due to changes in customer usage, it provides a more comprehensive view of our dollar-based net retention rate. The amounts presented in the immediately preceding table have been restated to reflect our dollar-based net retention rate presented as measured on our current definition of ARR for periods previously disclosed that did not include overage. To accompany the transition to this new presentation, the following table presents our dollar-based net retention rate for the periods presented as calculated using our prior definition of ARR, which excluded usage: January 31, 2025 2024 Direct Customers 92% 91% Third-Party Reseller Customers 92% 95% Total Customers 92% 92% Customer Count Customer count is defined as the total number of customers with contracts executed as of the last day of the reporting period and a unique administrative account identifier on our platform. Generally, we assign unique administrative accounts to each separate and distinct entity (such as a company or government institution) or a business unit of a large corporation, that has its own separate contract with us to access our platform. Historically, we believed that customer count provided insight into our ability to grow our enterprise and mid-size customer base. As such, customer count excluded third-party reseller customers and small business customers as well as customers only receiving free trials. From time to time, some customers previously characterized as small business customers transitioned to mid-size customers, and customer count included these changes resulting from any recharacterization. We no longer consider customer count to be a key performance measure of our business. As such, we are presenting customer count as of the end of January 31, 2025 as a key metric, but we do not expect to refer to it regularly in the future. As of January 31, 2025, customer count was approximately 2,920. 47 Components of Results of Operations Revenue We derive our revenue primarily from subscription and associated support to our platform. Our contracts are typically one year in length, but may be up to three years or longer in length. Revenue is a function of the number of customers, the number of licenses or capacity purchased by each customer, the package to which each customer subscribes, the price of the package and renewal rates. Revenue is generally recognized ratably over the contract term beginning on the commencement date of each contract, which is the date our platform is made available to customers. At the beginning of each subscription term we invoice our customers, typically in annual installments, but also monthly, quarterly, and semi-annually. Amounts that have been invoiced for non-cancelable contracts are recorded in accounts receivable and unearned revenue. Unearned revenue is subsequently recognized as revenue when transfer of control to a customer has occurred. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue consists primarily of employee-related costs, including personnel-related costs, which mainly consist of salaries and wages, and stock-based compensation expense. Cost of revenue also includes fees associated with our Publisher Network application provider arrangements, the nature of which may be unpaid, fixed, or variable, and are unpaid with many of our larger providers, as well as the costs associated with our data centers. In addition, cost of revenue includes depreciation expense, which includes amounts allocated based on employee headcount, as well as amounts related to certain capitalized software development costs incurred in connection with additional functionality to our platform. Cost of revenue also includes amortization expense, which includes amounts related to intangible assets arising from acquisitions and lease expenses associated with our office spaces, which are allocated based on employee headcount. In addition, cost of revenue includes software expense, which relates to licenses, professional services, and other costs associated with software for use in the operations of our business, which is also allocated based on employee headcount. Operating Expenses Sales and marketing expenses. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of employee-related costs which are comprised of personnel-related costs and stock-based compensation expense. Personnel-related costs mainly consist of salaries and wages and costs of obtaining revenue contracts. Sales and marketing expenses also include lease expenses associated with our office spaces, as well as software expense, each of which are allocated based on employee headcount. In addition, sales and marketing expenses include amortization expense, which includes amounts related to intangible assets arising from acquisitions, as well as costs related to advertising and conferences and brand awareness events. Research and development expenses. Research and development expenses consist primarily of employee-related costs which are comprised of personnel-related costs and stock-based compensation expense. Personnel-related costs mainly consist of salaries and wages. Capitalized software development costs related to additional functionality to our platform are excluded from research and development expenses as they are capitalized as a component of property and equipment, net and depreciated to cost of revenue over the term of their useful life. Research and development expenses also include data centers costs associated with pre-production costs for testing and quality assurance, as well as lease expenses associated with our office spaces, and software expense, each of which are allocated based on employee headcount. General and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of employee-related costs which are comprised of personnel-related costs and stock-based compensation expense for our finance and accounting, human resources, information technology and legal support departments. Personnel-related costs mainly consist of salaries and wages. General and administrative expenses also include lease expenses associated with our office spaces, as well as software expense, each of which are allocated based on employee headcount. In addition, general and administrative expenses include other professional related costs, which include acquisition-related costs, as well as fair value adjustments related to contingent consideration. 48 Results of Operations In this section, we discuss the results of our operations for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 compared to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024. For a discussion of our results of operations for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024 compared to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2023, see Part II, Item 7, "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024. The following table sets forth selected consolidated statement of operations data for each of the periods indicated: (in thousands) Fiscal year ended January 31, Statements of Operations Data: 2025 2024 Revenue $ 420,957 $ 404,322 Cost of revenue(1) 96,364 87,468 Gross profit 324,593 316,854 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing(1) 174,779 178,830 Research and development(1) 77,201 72,040 General and administrative(1) 105,061 72,185 Total operating expenses 357,041 323,055 Loss from operations (32,448) (6,201) Interest income 6,102 7,094 Interest expense (967) (470) Other expense, net (745) (761) Loss from operations before income taxes (28,058) (338) Benefit from (provision for) income taxes 110 (2,292) Net loss $ (27,948) $ (2,630) (1) See Note 10 "Stock-Based Compensation" to the consolidated financial statements for amounts included. 49 The following table sets forth selected consolidated statements of operations data for each of the periods indicated as a percentage of total revenue: Fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 2024 Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 23 22 Gross profit 77.1 78.4 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 42 44 Research and development 18 18 General and administrative 25 18 Total operating expenses 85 80 Loss from operations (8) (2) Interest income 1 2 Interest expense Other expense, net Loss from operations before income taxes (7) Benefit from (provision for) income taxes (1) Net loss (7) % (1) % Note: Numbers rounded for presentation purposes and may not sum. Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2025 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2024 Revenue Fiscal year ended January 31, Variance (in thousands) 2025 2024 Dollars Percent Revenue $ 420,957 $ 404,322 $ 16,635 4 % Cost of revenue 96,364 87,468 $ 8,896 10 % Gross profit $ 324,593 $ 316,854 $ 7,739 2 % Gross margin 77.1 % 78.4 % Total revenue was $421.0 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, compared to $404.3 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024, an increase of $16.6 million or 4%. The increase was entirely driven by the inclusion of Hearsays revenue as a result of the acquisition which did not exist in the comparative period. The increase was negatively affected by the resulting absence of revenue from the attrition of a large customer that did not renew their contract as of January 31, 2024. Revenue recognized from subscriptions and associated support to our platform was 93% and 92%, while revenue recognized from professional services was 7% and 8%, for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. Revenue for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 included a positive impact from foreign currency exchange rates of approximately $1.5 million, using a constant currency basis. We calculate constant currency by translating our current period results for entities reporting in currencies other than U.S. Dollars (USD) into USD at the average monthly exchange rates in effect during the comparative period, as opposed to the average monthly exchange rates in effect during the current period. The following table summarizes our revenue by sales channel for the periods presented: Fiscal year ended January 31, Variance 2025 2024 Dollars Percent (in thousands) Direct Customers $ 346,951 $ 327,093 $ 19,858 6 % Third-Party Reseller Customers 74,006 77,229 (3,223) (4) % Total Revenue $ 420,957 $ 404,322 $ 16,635 4 % Revenue attributable to direct customers was $347.0 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, compared to $327.1 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024, an increase of $19.9 million or 6%.The increase was entirely driven by the inclusion of Hearsays revenue as a result of the acquisition which did not exist in the comparative period. The increase was negatively 50 affected by the resulting absence of revenue from the attrition of a large customer that did not renew their contract as of January 31, 2024. Revenue attributable to third-party reseller customers was $74.0 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, compared to $77.2 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024, a decrease of $3.2 million or 4% primarily due to customer attrition. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Cost of revenue was $96.4 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, compared to $87.5 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024, an increase of $8.9 million, or 10%. The increase was primarily driven by the acquisition of Hearsay, which resulted in a $4.0 million increase in amortization expense related to acquired intangible assets, as well as a $1.3 million increase related to royalties and integration fees. In addition, data center costs increased $2.4 million, and professional related costs increased $1.6 million. These increases were offset by a $2.0 million decrease in depreciation expense, as certain assets have fully depreciated. Gross margin was 77.1% for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, compared to 78.4% for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024 as reflected in the discussion above. Operating Expenses Fiscal year ended January 31, Variance (in thousands) 2025 2024 Dollars Percent Sales and marketing $ 174,779 $ 178,830 $ (4,051) (2) % Research and development $ 77,201 $ 72,040 $ 5,161 7 % General and administrative $ 105,061 $ 72,185 $ 32,876 46 % Sales and marketing expense was $174.8 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, compared to $178.8 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024, a decrease of $4.1 million, or 2%. The decrease was primarily driven by a $1.9 million decrease in personnel-related costs, reflecting lower headcount, a $1.4 million decrease in depreciation expense as certain assets have fully depreciated, a $1.3 million decrease in employee travel and a $1.2 million decrease in lease expense. In addition, there were smaller decreases in conferences and events of $0.6 million and software expense of $0.5 million. These decreases were offset by a $3.1 million increase in amortization expense related to acquired intangible assets from the Hearsay acquisition. Research and development expense was $77.2 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, compared to $72.0 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024, an increase of $5.2 million, or 7%. The increase was primarily driven by a $7.6 million increase in personnel-related costs, reflecting higher headcount. This increase was offset by decreases in stock-based compensation expense of $1.1 million, depreciation expense of $0.6 million, as certain assets have fully depreciated, and a $0.5 million decrease in professional related costs, among others. General and administrative expense was $105.1 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, compared to $72.2 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024, an increase of $32.9 million or 46%. The increase was primarily driven by the acquisition of Hearsay, which resulted in $8.8 million of costs being incurred related to the portion of the incentive pool payable to founders and early employees, as well as $5.5 million related to changes in the fair value of contingent consideration. The increase was further driven by employee-related costs, as stock-based compensation expense increased $7.5 million, mainly due to PSUs granted in fiscal year 2024, and personnel-related costs increased $3.1 million, largely due to retention amounts related to Hearsay employees. In addition, professional related costs increased $7.3 million, primarily due to professional services related to the Hearsay acquisition. Net Loss Net loss was $27.9 million and $2.6 million for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to our financial results determined in accordance with GAAP, we believe that certain non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating our operating performance and our business. Non-GAAP net income (loss) is a financial measure that is not calculated in accordance with GAAP. We define non-GAAP net income (loss) as our GAAP net income (loss) as adjusted to exclude the effects of stock-based compensation expense, acquisition-related costs, amortization of acquired intangibles, and the related income tax effect of these adjustments. Acquisition-related costs include transaction and related costs, subsequent fair value movements in contingent consideration, and compensation arrangements. We believe non-GAAP net income (loss) provides investors and other users of our financial information consistency and comparability with our past financial performance and facilitates period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations. We also believe non-GAAP net income (loss) is useful in evaluating our operating performance compared to that of other companies in our industry, as it eliminates the effects of stock-based compensation, acquisition-related costs, and amortization of acquired intangibles, which may vary for reasons unrelated to overall operating performance. In addition, beginning in fiscal 2025, we are utilizing a projected tax rate of 25% in our computation of the non-GAAP income tax provision. Our estimated tax rate on non-GAAP income is determined annually and may be adjusted during the year to take into account events or trends that we believe materially impact the estimated annual rate including, but not limited to, significant changes 51 resulting from tax legislation, material changes in the geographic mix of revenue and expenses and other significant events. Our estimated tax rate on non-GAAP income may differ from our GAAP tax rate and from our actual tax liabilities. We use non-GAAP net income (loss) in conjunction with traditional GAAP net income (loss) as part of our overall assessment of our performance, including the preparation of our annual operating budget and quarterly forecasts, and to evaluate the effectiveness of our business strategies. Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure that we believe offers a useful view of overall operations used to assess the performance of core business operations and for planning purposes. We define Adjusted EBITDA as GAAP net income (loss) before (1) interest income (expense), net, (2) (provision for) benefit from income taxes, (3) depreciation and amortization, (4) other income (expense), net, (5) stock-based compensation expense, and (6) acquisition-related costs. The most directly comparable GAAP financial measure to Adjusted EBITDA is GAAP net income (loss). Users should consider the limitations of using Adjusted EBITDA, including the fact that this measure does not provide a complete measure of our operating performance. Adjusted EBITDA is not intended to purport to be an alternate to GAAP net income (loss) as a measure of operating performance. The definitions of our non-GAAP financial measures may differ from the definitions used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited. In addition, other companies may not publish this or similar metrics. Thus, our non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, nor superior to or in isolation from, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our non-GAAP financial measures may be limited in their usefulness because they do not present the full economic effect of the expenses mentioned above. We compensate for these limitations by providing a reconciliation of our non-GAAP financial measures to the most closely related GAAP financial measures. We encourage investors and others to review our financial information in its entirety, not to rely on any single financial measure and to view non-GAAP net income (loss) and Adjusted EBITDA in conjunction with GAAP net income (loss). Recent Changes in Non-GAAP Metrics Beginning with the three months ended July 31, 2024, we revised our definitions of Non-GAAP net income (loss) and Adjusted EBITDA to adjust for the effects of certain acquisition-related costs prompted by our recent acquisition of Hearsay. We believe these changes provide investors with a view of continuing core operations without the effects of unusual activity specific to acquisition-related accounting. These adjustments do not omit or adjust for the inclusion of ongoing operations of acquisitions. We have recast our results on the same basis for the prior comparative periods presented, although the effects in those periods remain unchanged notwithstanding as no such acquisition-related activity had occurred. The following table reconciles our GAAP net loss to non-GAAP net income (loss): Fiscal year ended January 31, (in thousands) 2025 2024 GAAP net loss $ (27,948) $ (2,630) Plus: Stock-based compensation expense 51,780 44,961 Plus: Acquisition-related costs 29,176 Plus: Amortization of acquired intangibles 7,097 Less: Tax adjustment(1) (15,109) Non-GAAP net income $ 44,996 $ 42,331 (1) Beginning in fiscal 2025, we are utilizing a projected tax rate of 25% in our computation of the non-GAAP income tax provision. Our estimated tax rate on non-GAAP income is determined annually and may be adjusted during the year to take into account events or trends that we believe materially impact the estimated annual rate including, but not limited to, significant changes resulting from tax legislation, material changes in the geographic mix of revenue and expenses and other significant events. Our estimated tax rate on non-GAAP income may differ from our GAAP tax rate and from our actual tax liabilities. 52 The following table reconciles our GAAP net loss to Adjusted EBITDA: Fiscal year ended January 31, (in thousands) 2025 2024 GAAP net loss $ (27,948) $ (2,630) Interest (income) expense, net (5,135) (6,624) (Benefit from) provision for income taxes (110) 2,292 Depreciation and amortization 18,531 15,805 Other expense (income), net 745 761 Stock-based compensation expense 51,780 44,961 Acquisition-related costs 29,176 Adjusted EBITDA $ 67,039 $ 54,565 Constant Currency We provide revenue, including year-over-year growth rates, adjusted to remove the impact of foreign currency rate fluctuations, which we refer to as constant currency. We believe providing revenue on a constant currency basis helps our investors to better understand our underlying performance, given the current macroeconomic environment. We calculate constant currency by using the current period results for entities reporting in currencies other than USD, which are then converted into USD at the average monthly exchange rates in effect during the comparative period, as opposed to the average monthly exchange rates in effect during the current period. Our definition may differ from the definitions used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited. In addition, other companies may not publish these or similar metrics. Thus, our revenue on a constant currency basis should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, nor superior to or in isolation from, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. We provide a reconciliation of revenue on a constant currency basis to the most closely related GAAP financial measure. We encourage investors and others to review our financial information in its entirety and to view revenue on a constant currency basis in conjunction with revenue on a GAAP basis. The following table provides a reconciliation of revenue on a GAAP basis to revenue on a constant currency basis: Fiscal year ended January 31, (in thousands) 2025 2024 Growth Rates Revenue (GAAP) $ 420,957 $ 404,322 4 % Effects of foreign currency rate fluctuations (1,453) Revenue on a constant currency basis (Non-GAAP) $ 419,504 4 % Free Cash Flow We also provide free cash flow, which is a non-GAAP measure defined as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, less cash used for purchases of capital expenditures, inclusive of capitalized software development costs. Free cash flow margin is calculated as free cash flow divided by total revenue. We believe this is meaningful to investors because it is a measure of liquidity that provides useful information in understanding and evaluating the strength of our liquidity and future ability to generate cash that can be used for strategic opportunities or investing in our business. The following table provides a reconciliation of GAAP Cash flow provided by (used in) operating activities to free cash flow: Fiscal year ended January 31, (in thousands) 2025 2024 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 50,211 $ 46,157 Less: Capital expenditures inclusive of capitalized software development costs (2,085) (2,728) Free cash flow $ 48,126 $ 43,429 Operating cash flow margin 12 % 11 % Free cash flow margin 11 % 11 % 53 Liquidity and Capital Resources As of January 31, 2025, our principal sources of liquidity were cash and cash equivalents of $123.1 million. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our projected operating requirements for at least the next 12 months. Our cash flows, including net cash used in or provided by operating activities, may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, due to the timing of billings, cash collections and lease payments, significant marketing events and related expenses, acquisitions, and other factors. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including those set forth under "Risk Factors". We may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services, technologies, and intellectual property rights. In addition, we may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. Credit Arrangements On March 11, 2020, we entered into a credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) with Silicon Valley Bank (SVB). In January 2021, we amended the Credit Agreement which modified the conditions pursuant to which subsidiaries are required to become guarantors. On December 22, 2022, we entered into a second amendment (Amendment No. 2) to the Credit Agreement, dated March 11, 2020, and on July 26, 2024, we entered into a third amendment ("Amendment No. 3") to the Credit Agreement, collectively referred to as the Credit Facility. No significant debt issuance costs were incurred in association with Amendment No.2 and Amendment No.3. Amendment No. 2 amended the Credit Facility to, among other things (i) extend the maturity date of the Credit Facility to December 22, 2025, (ii) amend the interest rate provisions to replace LIBOR with SOFR as the interest rate benchmark, and (iii) amend the recurring revenue growth rate financial covenant. Amendment No. 3 amended the Credit Facility to, among other things (i) amend the interest rate applicable to loans under the Credit Facility, and (ii) replace the consolidated quick ratio and recurring revenue growth rate financial covenants with consolidated total leverage ratio and minimum liquidity financial covenants. The Credit Facility provides for a senior secured revolving loan facility of up to $50.0 million that matures on December 22, 2025, with the right subject to certain conditions to add an incremental revolving loan facility of up to $50.0 million in the aggregate. The revolving loan facility provides for borrowings up to the amount of the facility with sub-limits of up to (i) $30.0 million to be available for the issuance of letters of credit and (ii) $10.0 million to be available for swingline loans. As amended, the revolving loans bear interest, at our election, at an annual rate based on SOFR or a base rate. Loans based on SOFR shall bear interest at a rate between SOFR plus 1.75% and SOFR plus 2.25%, depending on our consolidated total leverage ratio and subject to a SOFR floor of 1.00%. Loans based on the base rate shall bear interest at a rate between the base rate minus 1.25% and the base rate minus 0.75%, depending on our consolidated total leverage ratio. We are also obligated to pay a commitment fee on the unused portion of the facility at a rate of 0.25% per annum. The obligations under the Credit Facility are secured by a lien on substantially all of our tangible and intangible property and by a pledge of all of our equity interests of material direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries and 66% of each class of capital stock of any material first-tier foreign subsidiaries, subject to limited exceptions. The Credit Facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants and restrictions, as well as financial covenants that require us to maintain minimum liquidity of $35.0 million at all times and a consolidated total leverage ratio of no greater than 3.00 to 1.00, tested on a quarterly basis. As of January 31, 2025, we were in compliance with all debt covenants. As of such date, the $50.0 million revolving loan facility had $36.6 million available and $13.4 million in letters of credit allocated as security in connection with office space. 54 Share Repurchase Program In March 2022, our Board of Directors authorized a $100.0 million share repurchase program of our common stock. In September 2023, our Board of Directors authorized an additional $50.0 million to the share repurchase program. During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, 2,687,528 shares were purchased and as of January 31, 2025 approximately $31.9 million remains available for future purchases, exclusive of commissions paid on the repurchase of shares. In March 2025, the Board of Directors authorized an additional $50.0 million to the share repurchase program. Cash Flows In this section, we discuss our cash flows for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2025 and 2024. For a discussion of our cash flows for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2023, see Part II, Item 7, "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Liquidity and Capital Resources" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024. The following table summarizes our cash flows: Fiscal year ended January 31, (in thousands) 2025 2024 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 50,211 $ 46,157 Net cash used in investing activities $ (91,492) $ (2,728) Net cash used in financing activities $ (28,541) $ (23,254) Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities of $50.2 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 reflected our net loss of $27.9 million, adjusted by non-cash charges including stock-based compensation expense of $51.8 million, depreciation and amortization expense of $18.5 million, including $7.1 million related to the amortization of acquired intangibles, as well as $8.7 million related to the amortization of operating lease right-of-use assets and $5.5 million related to adjustments to contingent consideration. In addition, there were positive adjustments resulting from changes in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities of $17.0 million and costs to obtain revenue contracts of $10.0 million. These increases were offset by changes in unearned revenue of $20.5 million, operating lease liabilities of $11.1 million, and accounts receivable of $1.1 million, mainly due to timing of billing and cash collections during the period. Net cash provided by operating activities of $46.2 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024 reflected our net loss of $2.6 million, adjusted by non-cash charges including stock-based compensation expense of $45.0 million, depreciation and amortization expense of $15.8 million and amortization of operating lease right-of-use assets of $8.8 million. In addition, there were positive adjustments resulting from changes in costs to obtain revenue contracts of $8.8 million, prepaid expenses and other current assets of $0.8 million and accounts receivable of $0.5 million, mainly due to timing of billing and cash collections during the period. These increases were offset by changes in operating lease liabilities of $11.7 million, unearned revenue of $11.3 million and accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities of $10.2 million. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities of $91.5 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 reflected cash outflows of $89.4 million related to cash paid, net of cash acquired, in the acquisition of Hearsay, as well as capital expenditures of $2.1 million. Net cash used in investing activities of $2.7 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024 reflected capital expenditures. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities of $28.5 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 was primarily related to cash outflows of $17.9 million associated with repurchases of common stock as part of our share repurchase program, as well as $10.8 million associated with payments for taxes related to the net share settlement of stock-based compensation awards and $3.5 million related to deferred payments for acquisitions. This was offset by net proceeds from employee stock purchase plan withholdings of $3.3 million. Net cash used in financing activities of $23.3 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024 was primarily related to $23.1 million in cash outflows associated with repurchases of common stock as part of our share repurchase program, as well as payments for taxes related to the net share settlement of stock-based compensation awards of $13.0 million and payments of deferred financing costs of $0.5 million. This was offset by proceeds from exercise of stock options of $9.4 million and net proceeds from employee stock purchase plan withholdings of $3.9 million. Contractual Obligations See Note 15 "Commitments and Contingencies" to the consolidated financial statements for our discussion on contractual obligations. 55 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our management's discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported revenue generated and expenses incurred during the reporting periods. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about items that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. See Note 2 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion on our accounting policies. Our most critical accounting policies and estimates, based on the degree of judgment and complexity, are discussed below. Revenue Recognition We derive our revenue primarily from our subscriptions and associated support to our platform. Our subscriptions do not provide customers with the right to take possession of the software supporting the applications and, as a result, are accounted for as service contracts. Our subscription and associated support performance obligation is distinct because a customer's use of our platform is fully functional upon access, does not require any additional development, modification or customization, and is often sold separately. In certain instances, we enter into a contract that includes a promise to provide certain technical or customized professional services, in addition to a promise to provide its subscription and associated support. Our professional services performance obligation is distinct as it does not significantly change or enhance the functionality of our platform. In instances when a contract includes more than one performance obligation, we must allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations on a relative standalone selling price basis ("SSP"). SSP represents the price at which a company would sell a promised product or service separately to a customer. We determine the SSP based on a series of complex factors. Our selling prices associated with our subscription and associated support are considered highly variable based on discounting practices, customer geography, customer size, and other such factors. In contrast, our selling prices associated with our professional services are more observable, predictable and consistent. Accordingly, we use the residual method to determine SSP. The recognition of revenue is determined through application of the five-step model in accordance with ASC 606. Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of services to our customers, including third-party reseller customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those services. In transactions with resellers, we contract only with the reseller, in which pricing and length of subscription and support services are agreed upon. The reseller negotiates the price charged and length of subscription and support service directly with its customer. We do not pay separate fees to third-party reseller customers in association with these transactions, and do not have direct interactions with the resellers customer. Revenue is generally recognized ratably over the contract term beginning on the commencement date of each contract, which is the date our platform is made available to our customers. Amounts that have been invoiced for non-cancelable contracts are recorded in accounts receivable and unearned revenue or revenue. See Note 2 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" and Note 3 "Revenue" to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion on our revenue recognition. Income Taxes We account for income taxes in accordance with ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes, under which deferred income taxes are provided for temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax basis of our assets and liabilities. We classify all deferred tax assets and liabilities as non-current on the consolidated balance sheet. The effect of a change in tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized within the provision for income taxes on the consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive loss in the period that includes the enactment date. We reduce deferred tax assets, if necessary, by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that we will not realize some or all of our deferred tax assets. In making such a determination, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including results of operations, future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, projected future taxable income and tax-planning strategies. We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. We recognize interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions within the provision for income taxes on our consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive loss. 56 Business Combinations We account for business combinations using the acquisition method of accounting, which requires identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the acquiree, to be measured at their fair values, as of the acquisition date. Any excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recorded as goodwill. The determination of fair value requires management to make significant estimates, particularly with respect to intangible assets. These estimates can include, but are not limited to: future expected cash flows from revenue contracts and acquired developed technologies and trademarks; historical and expected customer attrition rates and anticipated growth in revenue from acquired customers; royalty rates applied to acquired developed technology platforms and other intangible assets; assumptions about the period of time and intended use of acquired intangible assets; discount rates; uncertain tax positions and tax-related valuation allowances; and fair value of assumed equity awards. These estimates are inherently uncertain and unpredictable, and unanticipated events and circumstances may occur that may affect the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates or actual results. If the initial accounting for a business combination is not complete following the acquisition date, we report provisional amounts for the known assets, liabilities, equity interests, or items of consideration for which the accounting is incomplete at the end of the financial reporting period. Provisional accounting is inherently subjective and judgmental. The objective of the measurement period is to provide a reasonable period of time to obtain the information necessary to complete all aspects of business combination accounting with a high level of confidence. During the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, adjustments to the reported provisional amounts may be recorded for which the accounting was incomplete, with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Should the accounting for a business combination be incomplete by the end of a reporting period that falls within the measurement period, we report provisional amounts in our financial statements, disclosing them as provisional, and any material measurement period adjustments are identified as such. Additional assets acquired or liabilities assumed in an acquisition that were not recognized at the acquisition date might be identified during the measurement period. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period or final determination of the fair value of assets acquired or liabilities assumed, whichever comes first, no further adjustments are made. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies-Recent Accounting Pronouncements" to the consolidated financial statements for our discussion about adopted and pending recent accounting pronouncements. 57