Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview Zebra Technologies Corporation and its subsidiaries (Zebra or the Company) is a global leader respected for innovative Enterprise Asset Intelligence (EAI) solutions in the automatic identification and data capture solutions industry. We design, manufacture, and sell a broad range of products and solutions, including cloud-based subscriptions, that capture and move data, including: mobile computers; barcode scanners and imagers; radio frequency identification device (RFID) readers; specialty printers for barcode labeling and personal identification; real-time location systems (RTLS); related accessories and supplies, such as self-adhesive labels and other consumables; and software applications. We also provide a full range of services, including maintenance, technical support, and repair, managed and professional services. End-users of our products, solutions and services include those in the retail and e-commerce, manufacturing, transportation and logistics, healthcare, public sector, and other industries around the world. Our customers have traditionally benefited from proven solutions that increase productivity and improve asset efficiency and utilization. The Company is poised to drive, and capitalize on, the evolution of the data capture industry into the broader EAI industry, based on important technology trends like the Internet of Things (IoT), ubiquitous mobility, automation and cloud computing. EAI solutions offer additional benefits to our customers including real-time, data-driven insights that improve operational visibility and drive workflow optimization. The Companys operations consist of two reportable segments: Asset Intelligence & Tracking (AIT) and Enterprise Visibility & Mobility (EVM). The AIT segment is an industry leader in barcode printing and asset tracking technologies. Its major product lines include barcode and card printers, supplies, services, and location solutions. Industries served include retail and e-commerce, manufacturing, transportation and logistics, healthcare, public sector, and other end markets within the following regions: North America; Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA); Asia-Pacific; and Latin America. The EVM segment is an industry leader in automatic information and data capture solutions. Its major product lines include mobile computing, data capture, RFID, services, software-based workflow optimization solutions, and retail solutions. Industries served include retail and e-commerce, manufacturing, transportation and logistics, healthcare, public sector, and other end markets within the following regions: North America; EMEA; Asia-Pacific; and Latin America. In the first quarter of 2021, we moved our retail solutions offering from our AIT segment into our EVM segment contemporaneous with a change in our organizational structure and management of the business. We have reported our results reflecting this change, including historical periods, on a comparable basis. This change does not have an impact to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Recent Developments COVID-19 Outbreak The coronavirus (COVID-19or the pandemic ) has spread across the globe, with various measures, such as travel restrictions and cancellations or limitations of in-person gatherings, remaining in effect to certain degrees in several jurisdictions. We serve a diverse mix of customers; some of which, have experienced declines or suspensions of their operations, whereas others have experienced increases in their business volume. While the ultimate duration of the pandemic and timing of recovery in each region remains highly uncertain, the Company expects 2021 sales and profitability to benefit from pent-up demand from customers who we believe had delayed purchases in 2020 due to the pandemic, as well as the resulting acceleration of the underlying trend to digitize and automate workflows. The negative impacts from the pandemic, including declines in customer demand and supply chain disruptions, were most pronounced in the first half of 2020 and lessened later in 2020 as the global economic recovery took shape. We have continued to mitigate the impacts of supply chain disruptions by taking exceptional actions, including alternative modes of product delivery and fulfillment, as well as providing protective equipment for our front-line employees. Thus far in 2021, the level of demand for certain product components has resulted in lengthened lead times and higher input costs. We are currently taking steps to mitigate these impacts; however, they could become more significant. These impacts may include the potential for product shortages which could negatively impact our ability to meet forecasted customer demand 19 Table of Contents should suppliers of necessary parts no longer be able to provide such parts or sufficiently allocate supply among their customers, including the Company. The federal, state, and local governments as well as foreign governments, to varying degrees, have imposed, and continue to impose, several protocols and regulations restricting the physical movement or other activities of individuals in an effort to limit the spread of COVID-19. We have implemented a number of measures in an effort to protect our employees health and well-being, including having the majority of office workers work remotely, limiting employee travel, and withdrawing from in-person industry events. In addition, as governments continue to ease their restrictions and we continue to allow our employees to come back to work in our offices in a controlled approach, we have modified our business practices, including implementing social distancing protocols, office capacity restrictions, health screening, provision of personal protective equipment, tracking and tracing protocols, and extensively and frequently disinfecting our workspaces. Throughout the pandemic, distribution centers and repair centers have remained open at varying capacity levels to ensure continued support to our customers, many of whom provide essential goods and services to communities. We have considered the potential impacts of the global pandemic in qualitative impairment assessments of our long-lived assets, including goodwill and intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and right-of-use lease assets. We have concluded that it is not more likely than not that any of our long-lived assets are impaired during the current and prior year period. Our analysis considered, among other factors: the nature of our products, solutions, and services as well as our position within our industry; our highly variable cost structure; the assumption that the negative impacts from COVID-19 will be temporary; and that the Company will continue generating strong positive operating cash flows over the long-term. We have also considered the adequacy of our capital resources, inclusive of available borrowing capacity and other financing facilities; the results of our most recent quantitative goodwill impairment assessment, which was last completed in the fourth quarter of 2020; and our market capitalization, which has continued to far exceed total net assets. Finally, while we may experience a temporary increase in working capital levels, at this time, we do not anticipate a material impact to the realizability of current assets, such as accounts receivable or inventories. The situation related to the pandemic and recovery from the pandemic continues to be complex and rapidly evolving. Certain vaccines have been authorized by major regulatory bodies to help fight the infection of COVID-19, and certain other vaccines are in the late stages of development to provide such treatment. While it is anticipated in the ensuing months that authorized vaccines will become more widely available to the public, vaccine availability remains limited in certain regions and the timeline to sufficiently mitigate the effects of the pandemic through vaccines or other measures remains uncertain. If COVID-19 persists or worsens before vaccines or other treatments are made widely available, there may be further external developments, such as restrictions imposed by government authorities or guidance issued by public health authorities, that are beyond our control and may impact our operating plans. Parts of our business have experienced, and may continue to experience, operational disruption and customer demand impacts. Since the onset of the pandemic, we have taken certain cost reduction actions to mitigate the impact to profitability and cash flow. Currently, we are unable to reasonably estimate the duration of the pandemic or fully ascertain its long-term impact to our business. Reflexis Acquisition On September 1, 2020, the Company acquired Reflexis Systems, Inc. (Reflexis), a provider of task and workforce management, execution, and communication solutions for customers in the retail, food service, hospitality, and banking industries. Through this acquisition, the Company intends to enhance its solutions offerings to customers in these industries by combining Reflexis platform with its existing software solutions and product offerings, further empowering front line workers to execute the next best action using real time data. The operating results of Reflexis are included within the EVM segment. 20 Table of Contents Results of Operations: Quarter Ended 2021 versus 2020 Consolidated Results of Operations (amounts in millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended April 3, 2021 March 28, 2020 $ Change % Change Net sales: Tangible products $ 1,153 $ 901 $ 252 28.0 % Services and software 194 151 43 28.5 % Total Net sales 1,347 1,052 295 28.0 % Gross profit 655 473 182 38.5 % Gross margin 48.6 % 45.0 % 360 bps Operating expenses 383 322 61 18.9 % Operating income $ 272 $ 151 $ 121 80.1 % Net sales to customers by geographic region were as follows ( amounts in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended April 3, 2021 March 28, 2020 $ Change % Change North America $ 673 $ 519 $ 154 29.7 % EMEA 490 388 102 26.3 % Asia-Pacific 120 97 23 23.7 % Latin America 64 48 16 33.3 % Total net sales $ 1,347 $ 1,052 $ 295 28.0 % Operating expenses are summarized below (amounts in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended April 3, 2021 March 28, 2020 As a % of Net sales 2021 2020 Selling and marketing $ 134 $ 122 9.9 % 11.6 % Research and development 140 105 10.4 % 10.0 % General and administrative 82 74 6.1 % 7.0 % Amortization of intangible assets 26 16 NM NM Acquisition and integration costs 1 1 NM NM Exit and restructuring costs 4 NM NM Total operating expenses $ 383 $ 322 28.4 % 30.6 % Consolidated Organic Net sales growth: Three Months Ended April 3, 2021 Reported GAAP Consolidated Net sales growth 28.0 % Adjustments: Impact of foreign currency translation (1) (1.6) % Impact of acquisitions (2) (1.4) % Consolidated Organic Net sales growth (3) 25.0 % 21 Table of Contents (1) Operating results reported in U.S. Dollars are affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Foreign currency translation impact represents the difference in results that are attributable to fluctuations in the currency exchange rates used to convert the results for businesses where the functional currency is not the U.S. Dollar. This impact is calculated by translating the current period results at the currency exchange rates used in the comparable prior year period, inclusive of the Companys foreign currency hedging program. (2) For purposes of computing Organic Net sales growth, amounts directly attributable to the acquisition of Reflexis are excluded for twelve months following the September 1, 2020 acquisition date. (3) Consolidated Organic Net sales growth is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Measures section at the end of this item. First quarter 2021 compared to first quarter 2020 Total Net Sales increased $295 million or 28.0% compared with the prior year primarily due to broad-based customer demand across both of our segments and all regions, inclusive of pent-up demand from customers who we believe had delayed purchases in fiscal 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Net Sales for the first quarter of 2020 included the negative impacts of supply chain disruptions within our EVM segment resulting from the temporary closure of a key distribution center supplying the Americas late in that quarter. EVM Net Sales growth was 31.1% and AIT Net Sales growth was 22.8% compared to the prior year. Excluding the effects of acquisitions and favorable currency changes, the increase in Consolidated Organic Net sales was 25.0%. Gross margin increased to 48.6% for the current quarter compared to 45.0% for the prior year. Gross margins were higher than the prior year primarily due to favorable business mix, higher support service margins, the mitigation of Chinese import tariffs as of the fourth quarter of 2020 as well as a partial recovery of Chinese import tariffs in the current year, favorable currency changes, and contributions from our recent higher margin EVM acquisitions. These benefits were partially offset by premium freight costs and surcharges on certain product components. Operating expenses for the quarter ended April 3, 2021 and March 28, 2020, were $383 million and $322 million, or 28.4% and 30.6% of Net sales, respectively. The increase in Operating expenses over the prior year was primarily due to higher employee incentive-based compensation associated with improved financial performance; the inclusion of operating expenses and amortization of intangible assets associated with recently acquired businesses; and increased investment in research and development program projects, principally within our EVM segment. These increases were partially offset by lower travel spending in the current year, as well as the prior year including costs associated with our 2019 Productivity Plan and the diversification of the Companys product sourcing footprint, which were each completed by the end of 2020. Operating income increased 80.1% to $272 million for the current year compared to $151 million for the prior year. The increase was primarily due to higher Net Sales and Gross profit, which were partially offset by higher Operating expenses. Net income increased 156% compared to the prior year due to higher Operating income and favorability in Other income (expense), partially offset by higher income tax expense, detailed as follows: The Companys effective income tax rate for the quarters ended April 3, 2021 and March 28, 2020 was 17.4% and 13.6%, respectively. The Companys effective tax rate was higher in the current year compared to the prior year primarily due to increased income in jurisdictions with higher tax rates, partially offset by increased share-based compensation deductions. Other income (expense), net was $4 million of income in the current year compared to $48 million of expense in the prior year primarily due to lower interest expense in the current year. The current year interest expense benefited from an $8 million gain on interest rate swaps compared to a $35 million loss in the prior year, lower interest rates, and lower average outstanding debt levels. Diluted earnings per share increased to $4.22 as compared to $1.65 in the prior year primarily due to the increase in Net income. Results of Operations by Segment 22 Table of Contents The following commentary should be read in conjunction with the financial results of each operating business segment as detailed in Note 15, Segment Information & Geographic Data in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. To the extent applicable, segment results exclude purchase accounting adjustments, amortization of intangible assets, acquisition and integration costs, impairment of goodwill and other intangibles, exit and restructuring costs, and product sourcing diversification costs. Asset Intelligence & Tracking Segment (AIT) (in millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended April 3, 2021 March 28, 2020 $ Change % Change Net sales: Tangible products $ 410 $ 333 $ 77 23.1 % Services and software 26 22 4 18.2 % Total Net sales 436 355 81 22.8 % Gross profit 210 171 39 22.8 % Gross margin 48.2 % 48.2 % 0 bps Operating expenses 101 89 12 13.5 % Operating income $ 109 $ 82 $ 27 32.9 % AIT Organic Net sales growth: Three Months Ended April 3, 2021 AIT Reported GAAP Net sales growth 22.8 % Adjustments: Impact of foreign currency translation (1) (1.4) % AIT Organic Net sales growth (2) 21.4 % (1) Operating results reported in U.S. Dollars are affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Foreign currency translation impact represents the difference in results that are attributable to fluctuations in the currency exchange rates used to convert the results for businesses where the functional currency is not the U.S. Dollar. This impact is calculated by translating the current period results at the currency exchange rates used in the comparable prior year period, inclusive of the Companys foreign currency hedging program. (2) AIT Organic Net sales growth is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Measures section at the end of this item. First quarter 2021 compared to first quarter 2020 Total Net sales for AIT increased $81 million or 22.8% compared to the prior year primarily due to higher sales of printing products and supplies reflecting broad-based customer demand across all regions, inclusive of pent-up demand from customers who we believe had delayed purchases in fiscal 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as favorable currency changes. Excluding the impact of foreign currency changes, AIT Organic Net sales growth was 21.4%. Gross margin was 48.2% in both the current and prior year periods. The benefits of favorable business mix, foreign currency changes, as well as the mitigation of Chinese import tariffs as of the fourth quarter of 2020 along with partial recovery of Chinese import tariffs in the current year, were collectively offset by premium freight costs and surcharges on certain product components. Operating income increased 32.9% in the current quarter compared to the prior year period. The increase was due to higher Net sales and Gross profit, which were partially offset by higher Operating expenses. 23 Table of Contents Enterprise Visibility & Mobility Segment (EVM) (in millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended April 3, 2021 March 28, 2020 $ Change % Change Net sales: Tangible products $ 743 $ 568 $ 175 30.8 % Services and software 171 129 42 32.6 % Total Net sales 914 697 217 31.1 % Gross profit 448 303 145 47.9 % Gross margin 49.0 % 43.5 % 550 bps Operating expenses 255 208 47 22.6 % Operating income $ 193 $ 95 $ 98 103.2 % EVM Organic Net sales growth: Three Months Ended April 3, 2021 EVM Reported GAAP Net sales growth 31.1 % Adjustments: Impact of foreign currency translation (1) (1.7) % Impact of acquisition (2) (2.6) % EVM Organic Net sales growth (3) 26.8 % (1) Operating results reported in U.S. Dollars are affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Foreign currency translation impact represents the difference in results that are attributable to fluctuations in the currency exchange rates used to convert the results for businesses where the functional currency is not the U.S. Dollar. This impact is calculated by translating the current period results at the currency exchange rates used in the comparable prior year period, inclusive of the Companys foreign currency hedging program. (2) For purposes of computing EVM Organic Net sales growth, amounts directly attributable to the acquisition of Reflexis are excluded for twelve months following the September 1, 2020 acquisition date. (3) EVM Organic Net sales growth is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Measures section at the end of this item. First quarter 2021 compared to first quarter 2020 Total Net sales for EVM increased $217 million or 31.1% compared to the prior year primarily due to higher sales of mobile computing products, support services, and data capture products reflecting broad-based customer demand across all regions, inclusive of pent-up demand from customers who we believe had delayed purchases in fiscal 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, our recent acquisitions contributed to the growth of Services and software Net sales in the current year. Net Sales for the prior year included the negative impacts of supply chain disruptions that primarily impacted our North America mobile computing business. Excluding the impacts of acquisitions and favorable foreign currency changes, EVM Organic Net Sales growth was 26.8%. Gross margin increased to 49.0% in the current quarter compared to 43.5% in the prior year, primarily due to favorable business mix, higher support service margins, contributions from our higher margin acquisitions, favorable changes in foreign currency, as well as the mitigation of Chinese import tariffs as of the fourth quarter of 2020 along with partial recovery of Chinese import tariffs in the current year. These benefits were partially offset by premium freight and surcharges on certain product components. Operating income for the current quarter increased 103.2% compared to the prior year period. The increase was due to higher Net sales and Gross profit, which were partially offset by higher Operating expenses. 24 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources The primary factors that influence our liquidity include the amount and timing of our revenues, cash collections from our customers, cash payments to our suppliers, capital expenditures, repatriation of foreign cash, acquisitions, and share repurchases. Management believes that our existing capital resources, inclusive of available borrowing capacity on debt and other financing facilities and funds generated from operations, are sufficient to meet anticipated capital requirements and service our indebtedness. The following table summarizes our cash flow activities for the periods indicated (in millions): Three Months Ended Cash flows provided by (used in): April 3, 2021 March 28, 2020 $ Change Operating activities $ 224 $ 108 $ 116 Investing activities (23) (15) (8) Financing activities (181) (98) (83) Effect of exchange rates on cash balances (2) (1) (1) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents, including restricted cash $ 18 $ (6) $ 24 The change in our cash and cash equivalents balance during the three months ended April 3, 2021 compared to the prior year period is reflective of the following: The increase in cash provided by operating activities compared to the prior year was primarily attributed to higher operating profitability, favorable timing of vendor payments compared to the prior year, and lower incentive compensation payments. These benefits were partially offset by less favorability in the timing of customer collections and higher inventory levels compared to the prior year. The increase in net cash used in investing activities compared to the prior period was primarily due to higher purchases of long-term investments in the current year. The increase in cash used in financing activities was primarily due to the Company making debt repayments of $156 million in the current year, as compared to net borrowings of $121 million and share repurchases of $200 million in the prior year. Company Debt The following table shows the carrying value of the Companys debt (in millions): April 3, 2021 December 31, 2020 Term Loan A $ 888 $ 917 2020 Term Loan 100 Receivables Financing Facilities 208 235 Total debt $ 1,096 $ 1,252 Less: Debt issuance costs (4) (5) Less: Unamortized discounts (2) (2) Less: Current portion of debt (134) (364) Total long-term debt $ 956 $ 881 Term Loan A The principal on Term Loan A is due in quarterly installments, with the next quarterly installment due in March 2022 and the majority due upon the August 9, 2024 maturity date. The Company may make prepayments, in whole or in part, without premium or penalty, and would be required to prepay certain outstanding amounts in the event of certain circumstances or transactions. As of April 3, 2021, the Term Loan A interest rate was 1.37%. Interest payments are made monthly and are subject to variable rates plus an applicable margin. 2020 Term Loan 25 Table of Contents In September 2020, the Company entered into a new $200 million term loan (2020 Term Loan), with the proceeds used to partly fund the acquisition of Reflexis. The Company repaid $100 million of principal in the fourth quarter of 2020 and repaid the remaining $100 million of principal in the first quarter of 2021. Receivables Financing Facilities The Company has two Receivables Financing Facilities with financial institutions that have a combined total borrowing limit of up to $280 million. As collateral, the Company pledges perfected first-priority security interests in its U.S. domestically originated accounts receivable. The Company has accounted for transactions under its Receivables Financing Facilities as secured borrowings. The Companys first Receivables Financing Facility, which was originally entered into in December 2017 and was most recently amended in March 2021, allows for borrowings of up to $180 million. The most recent amendment to the first Receivables Financing Facility extended the maturity through March 19, 2024 but otherwise did not significantly change the facility. The Companys second Receivable Financing Facility, which was entered into in May 2019 and was amended in May 2020, allows for borrowings of up to $100 million and will mature on May 17, 2021. As of April 3, 2021, the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets included $498 million of receivables that were pledged under the two Receivables Financing Facilities. As of April 3, 2021, $208 million had been borrowed, of which $122 million was classified as current. Borrowings under the Receivables Financing Facilities bear interest at a variable rate plus an applicable margin. As of April 3, 2021, the Receivables Financing Facilities had an average interest rate of 1.04%. Interest is paid on these borrowings on a monthly basis. Revolving Credit Facility The Company has a Revolving Credit Facility that is available for working capital and other general business purposes, including letters of credit. As of April 3, 2021, the Company had letters of credit totaling $5 million, which reduced funds available for borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility from $1 billion to $995 million. No borrowings were outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility as of April 3, 2021. Upon borrowing, interest payments are made monthly and are subject to variable rates plus an applicable margin. The Revolving Credit Facility matures on August 9, 2024. Uncommitted Short-Term Credit Facility The Company also entered into an uncommitted short-term credit facility (Uncommitted Facility) in August 2020. The Uncommitted Facility matures on August 26, 2021 and allows for borrowings of up to $20 million. Each borrowing must be repaid within 90 days, or earlier if the facility matures beforehand, and bears interest at a variable rate plus an applicable margin. Along with the Companys Revolving Credit Facility, the Uncommitted Facility is available for working capital and other general business purposes. As of April 3, 2021, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under the Uncommitted Facility. See Note 9, Long-Term Debt in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to the Companys debt instruments. Receivables Factoring The Company has multiple Receivables Factoring arrangements, pursuant to which certain receivables are sold to banks without recourse in exchange for cash. Transactions under the Receivables Factoring arrangements are accounted for as sales under Accounting Standards Codifications 860, Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets , with the sold receivables removed from the Companys balance sheet. Under these Receivables Factoring arrangements, the Company does not maintain any beneficial interest in the receivables sold. The banks purchase of eligible receivables is subject to a maximum amount of uncollected receivables. The Company services the receivables on behalf of the banks, but otherwise maintains no significant continuing involvement with respect to the receivables. Sale proceeds that are representative of the fair value of factored receivables, less a factoring fee, are reflected in Net cash provided by operating activities on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, while sale proceeds in excess of the fair value of factored receivables are reflected in Net cash used in financing activities on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. In May 2020, the Company entered into a new Receivables Factoring arrangement with a bank, which allows for the factoring of up to 150 million of uncollected receivables originated from the EMEA and Asia-Pacific regions. This arrangement expands upon the Companys other Receivables Factoring arrangements, which allow for the factoring of up to $125 million of uncollected receivables originated from the EMEA region. As of April 3, 2021 and December 31, 2020 there were a total of $77 million and $70 million, respectively, of uncollected receivables that had been sold and removed from the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets. 26 Table of Contents As servicer of sold receivables, the Company had $123 million and $142 million of obligations that were not yet remitted to banks as of April 3, 2021 and December 31, 2020, respectively. These obligations are included within Accrued liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, with changes in such obligations reflected within Net cash used in financing activities on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. See Note 14, Accounts Receivable Factoring in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. Share Repurchases On July 30, 2019, the Company announced that its Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program for up to an aggregate amount of $1 billion of its outstanding shares of common stock. The share repurchase program does not have a stated expiration date. The level of the Companys repurchases depends on a number of factors, including its financial condition, capital requirements, cash flows, results of operations, future business prospects and other factors its management may deem relevant. The timing, volume, and nature of repurchases are subject to market conditions, applicable securities laws and other factors and may be amended, suspended or discontinued at any time. Repurchases may be effected from time to time through open market purchases, including pursuant to a pre-set trading plan meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5-1(c) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Companys share repurchases during the first quarter of 2021 were not significant. The Company repurchased 948,740 shares of common stock for $200 million during the first quarter of 2020. As of April 3, 2021, the Company has cumulatively repurchased 1,186,736 shares of common stock for $247 million under the plan, resulting in a remaining amount of share repurchases authorized under the plan of $753 million. Significant Customers The Net sales to significant customers as a percentage of the Companys total Net sales, by segment, were as follows: Three Months Ended April 3, 2021 March 28, 2020 AIT EVM Total AIT EVM Total Customer A 3.6 % 9.8 % 13.4 % 5.9 % 12.5 % 18.4 % Customer B 5.9 % 9.0 % 14.9 % 6.7 % 10.6 % 17.3 % Customer C 9.5 % 13.8 % 23.3 % 6.5 % 13.1 % 19.6 % These customers accounted for 13.3%, 8.0%, and 29.7% respectively, of accounts receivable as of April 3, 2021. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of total Net sales during the periods ended April 3, 2021 and March 28, 2020, or more than 10% of total outstanding accounts receivables as of April 3, 2021. All three of the above customers are distributors of the Companys products and solutions and not end users. Safe Harbor Forward-looking statements contained in this filing are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are highly dependent upon a variety of important factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. When used in this document and documents referenced, the words anticipate, believe, intend, estimate, will, and expect and similar expressions as they relate to the Company or its management are intended to identify such forward-looking statements but are not the exclusive means of identifying these statements. The forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the Companys financial outlook for the full year of 2021. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions, and are subject to the risks and uncertainties inherent in the Companys industry, market conditions, general domestic and international economic conditions, and other factors. These factors include: Market acceptance of the Companys products and solution offerings and competitors offerings and the potential effects of technological changes, The effect of global market conditions, including the North America; EMEA; Latin America; and Asia-Pacific regions in which we do business, The impact of foreign exchange rates due to the large percentage of our sales and operations being outside the U.S., Our ability to control manufacturing and operating costs, Risks related to the manufacturing of the Companys products and conducting business operations in non-U.S. countries, including the risk of depending on key suppliers who are also in non-U.S. countries, The Companys ability to purchase sufficient materials, parts, and components to meet customer demand, particularly in light of global economic conditions, 27 Table of Contents The availability of credit and the volatility of capital markets, which may affect our suppliers, customers, and ourselves, Success of integrating acquisitions, Interest rate and financial market conditions, Access to cash and cash equivalents held outside the U.S., The effect of natural disasters, man-made disasters, public health issues (including pandemics), and cybersecurity incidents on our business, The impact of changes in foreign and domestic governmental policies, laws, or regulations, The outcome of litigation in which the Company may be involved, particularly litigation or claims related to infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, and The outcome of any future tax matters or tax law changes. We encourage readers of this report to review Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors in this report for further discussion of issues that could affect the Companys future results. We undertake no obligation, other than as may be required by law, to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, changed circumstances, or any other reason after the date of this report. New Accounting Pronouncements We do not expect any recently issued accounting pronouncements to have a material impact to our consolidated financial statements. Non-GAAP Measures The Company has provided reconciliations of the supplemental non-GAAP financial measures, as defined under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, presented herein to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. These supplemental non-GAAP financial measures Consolidated Organic Net sales growth, AIT Organic Net sales growth, and EVM Organic Net sales growth are presented because our management evaluates our financial results both including and excluding the effects of business acquisitions and foreign currency translation, as applicable. Management believes that the supplemental non-GAAP financial measures presented provide additional perspective and insights when analyzing the core operating performance of our business from period to period and trends in our historical operating results. These supplemental non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered superior to, as a substitute for, or as an alternative to, and should be considered in conjunction with the GAAP financial measures presented.