Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview Zebra Technologies Corporation and its subsidiaries (Zebra or the Company) is a global leader respected for innovative Enterprise Asset Intelligence (EAI) solutions in the automatic identification and data capture solutions industry. We design, manufacture, and sell a broad range of products and solutions, including cloud-based software subscriptions, that capture and move data. These products and solutions include mobile computers; barcode scanners and imagers; radio frequency identification device (RFID) readers; specialty printers for barcode labeling and personal identification; real-time location systems (RTLS); related accessories and supplies, such as self-adhesive labels and other consumables; and related software applications. We also provide a full range of services, including maintenance, technical support, repair, managed and professional services, as well as various workflow optimization solutions, including cloud-based software subscriptions and robotic automation solutions. End-users of our products, solutions and services include those in the retail and e-commerce, manufacturing, transportation and logistics, healthcare, public sector, and other industries within the following regions: North America; Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA); Asia-Pacific; and Latin America. Our customers have traditionally benefited from proven solutions that increase productivity and improve asset efficiency and utilization. The Company is poised to drive, and capitalize on, the evolution of the data capture industry into the broader EAI industry, supported by technology trends including the Internet of Things (IoT), ubiquitous mobility, automation, cloud computing, and the increasingly on-demand global economy. EAI solutions offer additional benefits to our customers including real-time, data-driven insights that improve operational visibility and drive workflow optimization. The Companys operations consist of two reportable segments that provide complementary offerings to our customers: Asset Intelligence & Tracking (AIT) and Enterprise Visibility & Mobility (EVM). The AIT segment is an industry leader in barcode printing and asset tracking technologies. Its major product lines include barcode and card printers, supplies, including temperature-monitoring labels, and services. The EVM segment is an industry leader in automatic information and data capture solutions. Its major product lines include mobile computing, data capture, location solutions, RFID, fixed industrial scanning and machine vision, services, and workflow optimization solutions. Our workflow optimization solutions include cloud-based software subscriptions, retail solutions, and robotic automation solutions. In the first quarter of 2022, the location solutions offering, which provides a range of RTLS and services that generate on-demand information about the physical location and status of high-valued assets, equipment, and people, moved from our AIT segment into our EVM segment contemporaneous with a change in our organizational structure and management of the business. We have reported our results reflecting this change, including historical periods, on a comparable basis. This change did not have an impact to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Recent Developments Russia and Ukraine War We are closely monitoring Russias invasion of Ukraine, which remains an evolving and uncertain situation. On March 5, 2022, we announced the suspension of our business operations in Russia. Neither Russia nor Ukraine comprises a material portion of our business, and therefore, the war thus far has not had a significant effect on our results of operations. Additionally, the war has not significantly affected our ability to source supplies or deliver our products and services to our customers in the surrounding EMEA region. However, the implications of this war may expand beyond the current scope, potentially resulting in significant adverse impact on our business. COVID-19 Outbreak The global coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic continues to evolve. Governmental agencies, to varying degrees, have imposed, and continue to impose, several protocols and regulations restricting activities of individuals in an effort to limit the spread of COVID-19 when rates of infection rise, with some relaxation of these measures when infections rates are relatively low. We have implemented a number of measures in an effort to protect our employees health and well-being over the course of the pandemic tailored to address the local impacts, including having the majority of office workers work remotely during the height of the pandemic and high risk times and gradually returning to offices as restrictions are lifted when risks decrease, 20 Table of Contents limiting employee travel, and implementing more strenuous health and safety measures for hosting and attending in-person industry events. Throughout the pandemic, distribution centers and repair centers have remained open at varying capacity levels to ensure continued support to our customers, many of whom provide essential goods and services to communities. As governments ease their restrictions, our employees have been coming back to work in our offices in a controlled approach, with modified business practices, including, when appropriate, masking and social distancing protocols consistent with government regulations, vaccine verification, health screening, office capacity restrictions and tracking and tracing protocols where applicable, provision of personal protective equipment, increasing air exchange/ventilation and extensively and frequently disinfecting our workspaces. While customer demand has remained strong, the limited availability of certain product components has resulted in lengthened lead times and higher input costs, including freight, and in some cases, has impacted our ability to meet customer demand. The Company expects input costs to remain elevated for some period of time, which we believe will be partially mitigated through higher pricing where permitted by market conditions. The limited availability of certain component parts may continue to negatively impact our ability to meet forecasted customer demand. The Companys 2021 sales and profitability, particularly in the first half of the year, benefited from pent-up demand from customers who we believe had previously delayed purchases due to the pandemic, as well as the resulting acceleration of the underlying trend to digitize and automate workflows. Acquisitions Matrox Imaging: On March 14, 2022, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Matrox Electronic Systems, Ltd., a developer of advanced machine vision components and systems. The purchase price of approximately $875 million is expected to be funded with a combination of cash on hand and financing from our credit facility. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions and is expected to close mid 2022. The acquired business will become part of the EVM segment. Antuit.ai: On October 7, 2021, the Company acquired Antuit Holdings Pte. Ltd. (Antuit) for $145 million in cash, net of cash acquired. Antuit is a provider of demand-sensing and pricing optimization software solutions for retail and consumer products companies. Through this acquisition, the Company expands its portfolio of software solution offerings to customers in these industries by combining Antuits platform with its existing software solutions and EVM products. The operating results of Antuit are included in the EVM segment. Fetch : On August 9, 2021, the Company acquired Fetch Robotics, Inc. (Fetch) for total purchase consideration of $301 million, which consisted of $290 million in cash paid, net of cash acquired, and the fair value of the Companys existing minority ownership interest in Fetch of $11 million, as remeasured upon acquisition. Fetch is a provider of autonomous mobile robot solutions for customers who operate in the manufacturing, distribution, and fulfillment industries, enabling customers to optimize workflows through robotic automation. Through this acquisition, the Company intends to expand its automation solution offerings within these industries. The operating results of Fetch are included within the EVM segment. Adaptive Vision: On May 17, 2021, the Company acquired Adaptive Vision Sp. z o.o. (Adaptive Vision) for $18 million in cash, net of cash acquired. Adaptive Vision is a provider of graphical machine vision software with applications in the manufacturing industry, as well as a provider of libraries and other offerings for machine vision developers. The operating results of Adaptive Vision are included within the EVM segment. 21 Table of Contents Results of Operations Consolidated Results of Operations (amounts in millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended April 2, 2022 April 3, 2021 $ Change % Change Net sales: Tangible products $ 1,207 $ 1,153 $ 54 4.7 % Services and software 225 194 31 16.0 % Total Net sales 1,432 1,347 85 6.3 % Gross profit 637 655 (18) (2.7) % Gross margin 44.5 % 48.6 % (410) bps Operating expenses 425 383 42 11.0 % Operating income $ 212 $ 272 $ (60) (22.1) % Net sales to customers by geographic region were as follows (amounts in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended April 2, 2022 April 3, 2021 $ Change % Change North America $ 699 $ 673 $ 26 3.9 % EMEA 500 490 10 2.0 % Asia-Pacific 149 120 29 24.2 % Latin America 84 64 20 31.3 % Total Net sales $ 1,432 $ 1,347 $ 85 6.3 % Operating expenses are summarized below (amounts in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended April 2, 2022 April 3, 2021 As a % of Net sales 2022 2021 Selling and marketing $ 152 $ 134 10.6 % 9.9 % Research and development 137 140 9.6 % 10.4 % General and administrative 99 82 6.9 % 6.1 % Amortization of intangible assets 33 26 NM NM Acquisition and integration costs 4 1 NM NM Total Operating expenses $ 425 $ 383 29.7 % 28.4 % Consolidated Organic Net sales growth: Three Months Ended April 2, 2022 Reported GAAP Consolidated Net sales growth 6.3 % Adjustments: Impact of foreign currency translation (1) 0.1 % Impact of acquisitions (2) (1.0) % Consolidated Organic Net sales growth (3) 5.4 % (1) Operating results reported in U.S. Dollars are affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Foreign currency translation impact represents the difference in results that are attributable to fluctuations in the currency exchange rates used to convert the results for businesses where the functional currency is not the U.S. 22 Table of Contents Dollar. This impact is calculated by translating the current period results at the currency exchange rates used in the comparable prior year period, inclusive of the Companys foreign currency hedging program. (2) For purposes of computing Organic Net sales growth, amounts directly attributable to the acquisitions of Adaptive Vision, Fetch and Antuit are excluded for twelve months following their respective acquisitions. (3) Consolidated Organic Net sales growth is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Measures section at the end of this item. First quarter 2022 compared to first quarter 2021 Total Net sales increased $85 million or 6.3% compared to the prior year as our customers continue to digitize and automate their workflows. EVM Net sales growth was partially offset by a decline in AIT Net sales. Current year Net sales of both segments included the negative effects of supply constraints, which were particularly pronounced in AIT. Prior year Net sales of both segments benefited from pent-up demand from customers who we believe delayed purchases in fiscal 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Excluding the effects of acquisitions and currency changes, the increase in Consolidated Organic Net sales was 5.4%. Gross margin decreased to 44.5% for the current quarter compared to 48.6% for the prior year. Gross margins were lower in both of our segments primarily due to higher premium freight and component part costs, as well as unfavorable business mix, which were partially offset by higher support service margins. Operating expenses for the quarters ended April 2, 2022 and April 3, 2021 were $425 million and $383 million, or 29.7% and 28.4% of Net sales, respectively. The increase in Operating expenses over the prior year was primarily due to the inclusion of operating expenses and amortization of intangible assets associated with recently acquired businesses, as well as increased marketing program activities and employee travel as in-person activities resumed. These increases were partially offset by timing of research and development program activity, as well as lower employee incentive-based compensation. Operating income decreased 22.1% to $212 million for the current quarter compared to $272 million for the prior year. The decrease was due to lower Gross Profit and higher Operating expenses. Net income decreased 10.1% compared to the prior year due to lower Operating income and a higher effective income tax rate, which were partially offset by favorability in Other income, net as follows: Other income, net was $38 million in the current year compared to $4 million in the prior year primarily due to higher interest income and foreign exchange gains in the current year. The current year interest income benefited from a $34 million gain on interest rate swaps compared to an $8 million gain in the prior year. The Companys effective income tax rate for the three months ended April 2, 2022 and April 3, 2021 was 18.0% and 17.4%, respectively. The increase in the effective rate was primarily due to reduced benefits from share-based compensation deductions, partially offset by an increased benefit from a higher foreign-derived intangible income deduction. Diluted earnings per share decreased to $3.83 as compared to $4.22 in the prior year primarily due to lower Net income, partially offset by lower average diluted shares outstanding. 23 Table of Contents Results of Operations by Segment The following commentary should be read in conjunction with the financial results of each operating business segment as detailed in Note 15, Segment Information & Geographic Data in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. To the extent applicable, segment results exclude purchase accounting adjustments, amortization of intangible assets, acquisition and integration costs, impairment of goodwill and other intangibles, and exit and restructuring costs. Asset Intelligence & Tracking Segment (AIT) (in millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended April 2, 2022 April 3, 2021 $ Change % Change Net sales: Tangible products $ 370 $ 407 $ (37) (9.1) % Services and software 24 22 2 9.1 % Total Net sales 394 429 (35) (8.2) % Gross profit 154 207 (53) (25.6) % Gross margin 39.1 % 48.3 % (920) bps Operating expenses 94 96 (2) (2.1) % Operating income $ 60 $ 111 $ (51) (45.9) % AIT Organic Net sales growth: Three Months Ended April 2, 2022 AIT Reported GAAP Net sales growth (8.2) % Adjustments: Impact of foreign currency translation (1) 0.1 % AIT Organic Net sales growth (2) (8.1) % (1) Operating results reported in U.S. Dollars are affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Foreign currency translation impact represents the difference in results that are attributable to fluctuations in the currency exchange rates used to convert the results for businesses where the functional currency is not the U.S. Dollar. This impact is calculated by translating the current period results at the currency exchange rates used in the comparable prior year period, inclusive of the Companys foreign currency hedging program. (2) AIT Organic Net sales growth is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Measures section at the end of this item. First quarter 2022 compared to first quarter 2021 Total Net sales for AIT decreased $35 million or 8.2% compared to the prior year primarily due to lower sales of printing products, particularly within our North America region, which were partially offset by higher sales of supplies. Current year Net sales included the negative effects of supply constraints; while prior year Net sales benefited from pent-up demand from customers who we believe delayed purchases in fiscal 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Excluding the impact of foreign currency changes, AIT Organic Net sales declined 8.1%. Gross margin decreased to 39.1% for the current quarter compared to 48.3% for the prior year, primarily due to higher premium freight and component part costs, as well as unfavorable business mix and volume leverage. Operating income decreased 45.9% in the current quarter compared to the prior year period. The decrease was primarily due to lower Gross profit. 24 Table of Contents Enterprise Visibility & Mobility Segment (EVM) (in millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended April 2, 2022 April 3, 2021 $ Change % Change Net sales: Tangible products $ 837 $ 746 $ 91 12.2 % Services and software 201 175 26 14.9 % Total Net sales 1,038 921 117 12.7 % Gross profit 483 451 32 7.1 % Gross margin 46.5 % 49.0 % (250) bps Operating expenses 294 260 34 13.1 % Operating income $ 189 $ 191 $ (2) (1.0) % EVM Organic Net sales growth: Three Months Ended April 2, 2022 EVM Reported GAAP Net sales growth 12.7 % Adjustments: Impact of foreign currency translation (1) 0.1 % Impact of acquisitions (2) (1.2) % EVM Organic Net sales growth (3) 11.6 % (1) Operating results reported in U.S. Dollars are affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Foreign currency translation impact represents the difference in results that are attributable to fluctuations in the currency exchange rates used to convert the results for businesses where the functional currency is not the U.S. Dollar. This impact is calculated by translating the current period results at the currency exchange rates used in the comparable prior year period, inclusive of the Companys foreign currency hedging program. (2) For purposes of computing EVM Organic Net sales growth, amounts directly attributable to the acquisitions of Adaptive Vision, Fetch and Antuit are excluded for twelve months following their respective acquisitions. (3) EVM Organic Net sales growth is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Measures section at the end of this item. First quarter 2022 compared to first quarter 2021 Total Net sales for EVM increased $117 million or 12.7% compared to the prior year primarily due to higher sales of mobile computing products (contributing the majority of the total increase), data capture products, and support services across all regions. In addition, our recent acquisitions contributed to the growth of Services and software sales in the current year. Current year Net sales included the negative effects of supply constraints; while prior year Net sales benefited from pent-up demand from customers who we believe delayed purchases in fiscal 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Excluding the impacts of acquisitions and foreign currency changes, EVM Organic Net sales growth was 11.6%. Gross margin decreased to 46.5% in the current quarter compared to 49.0% in the prior year, primarily due to higher premium freight and component part costs, as well as unfavorable business mix, which were partially offset by higher support service margins. Operating income for the current quarter decreased 1.0% compared to the prior year period. The decrease was due to higher Gross profit, which was partially offset by higher Operating expenses. 25 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources The primary factors that influence our liquidity include the amount and timing of our revenues, cash collections from our customers, cash payments to our suppliers, capital expenditures, repatriation of foreign cash, acquisitions, and share repurchases. Management believes that our existing capital resources, inclusive of available borrowing capacity on debt and other financing facilities and funds generated from operations, are sufficient to meet anticipated capital requirements and service our indebtedness. The following table summarizes our cash flow activities for the periods indicated (in millions): Three Months Ended Cash flows provided by (used in): April 2, 2022 April 3, 2021 $ Change Operating activities $ 54 $ 224 $ (170) Investing activities (19) (23) 4 Financing activities (220) (181) (39) Effect of exchange rates on cash balances (2) (2) Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents, including restricted cash $ (187) $ 18 $ (205) The change in our cash and cash equivalents balance during the three months ended April 2, 2022 compared to the prior year period is reflective of the following: The decrease in cash provided by operating activities compared to the prior year was primarily due to higher incentive compensation payments, higher accounts receivable balances reflecting the timing of customer transactions within the period, and lower operating profitability, partly offset by lower inventory levels. Cash used in investing activities was comparable to the prior year. The Company had lower payments for the purchases of long-term investments, partly offset by higher capital expenditures. The increase in cash used in financing activities was primarily related to $305 million of share repurchases, partly offset by net borrowings of $105 million in the current period compared to net debt repayments of $156 million in the prior period. Company Debt The following table shows the carrying value of the Companys debt (in millions): April 2, 2022 December 31, 2021 Term Loan A $ 875 $ 888 Revolving Credit Facility 10 Receivables Financing Facilities 216 108 Total debt $ 1,101 $ 996 Less: Debt issuance costs (3) (3) Less: Unamortized discounts (2) (2) Less: Current portion of debt (183) (69) Total long-term debt $ 913 $ 922 Term Loan A The principal on Term Loan A is due in quarterly installments, with the next quarterly installment due in June 2022 and the majority due upon the August 9, 2024 maturity date. The Company may make prepayments, in whole or in part, without premium or penalty, and would be required to prepay certain outstanding amounts in the event of certain circumstances or transactions. As of April 2, 2022, the Term Loan A interest rate was 1.49%. Interest payments are made monthly and are subject to variable rates plus an applicable margin. 26 Table of Contents Revolving Credit Facility The Company has a Revolving Credit Facility that is available for working capital and other general business purposes, including letters of credit. As of April 2, 2022, the Company had letters of credit totaling $7 million, which reduced funds available for borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility from $1 billion to $993 million. As of April 2, 2022, the Revolving Credit Facility had an average interest rate of 1.69%. Upon borrowing, interest payments are made monthly and are subject to variable rates plus an applicable margin. The Revolving Credit Facility matures on August 9, 2024. Receivables Financing Facilities The Company has two Receivables Financing Facilities with financial institutions that have a combined total borrowing limit of up to $280 million. As collateral, the Company pledges perfected first-priority security interests in its U.S. domestically originated accounts receivable. The Company has accounted for transactions under its Receivables Financing Facilities as secured borrowings. The Companys first Receivables Financing Facility allows for borrowings of up to $180 million and matures on March 19, 2024. The Companys second Receivable Financing Facility allows for borrowings of up to $100 million and matures on May 16, 2022. As of April 2, 2022, the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets included $692 million of receivables that were pledged under the two Receivables Financing Facilities. As of April 2, 2022, $216 million had been borrowed, of which $121 million was classified as current. Borrowings under the Receivables Financing Facilities bear interest at a variable rate plus an applicable margin. As of April 2, 2022, the Receivables Financing Facilities had an average interest rate of 1.36%. Interest is paid on these borrowings on a monthly basis. See Note 9, Long-Term Debt in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to the Companys debt instruments. Receivables Factoring The Company currently has two Receivables Factoring arrangements, pursuant to which certain receivables are sold to banks without recourse in exchange for cash. One arrangement allows for the factoring of up to $25 million of uncollected receivables originated from the EMEA region. The second arrangement allows for the factoring of up to 150 million of uncollected receivables originated from the EMEA and Asia-Pacific regions. Transactions under the Receivables Factoring arrangements are accounted for as sales under Accounting Standards Codification 860, Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets , with the sold receivables removed from the Companys balance sheet. Under these Receivables Factoring arrangements, the Company does not maintain any beneficial interest in the receivables sold. The banks purchase of eligible receivables is subject to a maximum amount of uncollected receivables. The Company services the receivables on behalf of the banks, but otherwise maintains no significant continuing involvement with respect to the receivables. Sale proceeds that are representative of the fair value of factored receivables, less a factoring fee, are reflected in Net cash provided by operating activities on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, while sale proceeds in excess of the fair value of factored receivables are reflected in Net cash used in financing activities on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. As of April 2, 2022 and December 31, 2021, there were a total of $68 million and $24 million, respectively, of uncollected receivables that had been sold and removed from the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets. As servicer of sold receivables, the Company had $116 million and $141 million of obligations that were not yet remitted to banks as of April 2, 2022 and December 31, 2021, respectively. These obligations are included within Accrued liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, with changes in such obligations reflected within Net cash used in financing activities on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. See Note 14, Accounts Receivable Factoring in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. 27 Table of Contents Share Repurchases On July 30, 2019, the Company announced that its Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program for up to an aggregate amount of $1 billion of its outstanding shares of common stock. The share repurchase program does not have a stated expiration date. The level of the Companys repurchases depends on a number of factors, including its financial condition, capital requirements, cash flows, results of operations, future business prospects and other factors its management may deem relevant. The timing, volume, and nature of repurchases are subject to market conditions, applicable securities laws and other factors and may be amended, suspended or discontinued at any time. Repurchases may be effected from time to time through open market purchases, including pursuant to a pre-set trading plan meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5-1(c) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. During the first three months of 2022, the Company repurchased 648,875 shares of common stock for approximately $305 million. As of April 2, 2022, the Company has cumulatively repurchased 1,944,616 shares of common stock for approximately $608 million under the plan, resulting in a remaining amount of share repurchases authorized under the plan of approximately $392 million. Subsequent to the first quarter, the Company has repurchased 274,166 shares of common stock for approximately $108 million through April 29, 2022. Significant Customers The Company has three customers, who are distributors of the Companys products, services and solutions, that individually accounted for more than 10% of total Company Net sales for the periods presented. In the aggregate, the approximate percentage of our segment and Company total Net sales was as follows: Three Months Ended April 2, 2022 April 3, 2021 AIT EVM Total AIT EVM Total Significant customers as a % of Net sales 14.3 % 28.7 % 43.0 % 19.0 % 32.6 % 51.6 % These customers accounted for 55.8% of accounts receivable as of April 2, 2022. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of total Net sales during the periods ended April 2, 2022 and April 3, 2021, or more than 10% of total outstanding accounts receivables as of April 2, 2022. Safe Harbor Forward-looking statements contained in this filing are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are highly dependent upon a variety of important factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. When used in this document and documents referenced, the words anticipate, believe, intend, estimate, will, and expect and similar expressions as they relate to the Company or its management are intended to identify such forward-looking statements but are not the exclusive means of identifying these statements. The forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the Companys financial outlook for full year of 2022. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions, and are subject to the risks and uncertainties inherent in the Companys industry, market conditions, general domestic and international economic conditions, and other factors. These factors include: Market acceptance of the Companys products, services and solution offerings and competitors offerings and the potential effects of emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, The effect of global market conditions, including the North America; EMEA; Latin America; and Asia-Pacific regions in which we do business, The impact of changes in foreign exchange rates, customs duties and trade policies due to the large percentage of our sales and operations being outside the U.S., Our ability to control manufacturing and operating costs, Risks related to the manufacturing of the Companys products and conducting business operations in non-U.S. countries, including the risk of depending on key suppliers who are also in non-U.S. countries, The Companys ability to purchase sufficient materials, parts, and components as well as our ability to provide services and software to meet customer demand, particularly in light of global economic conditions, The availability of credit and the volatility of capital markets, which may affect our suppliers, customers, and ourselves, Success of integrating acquisitions, Our ability to attract, retain, develop, and motivate key personnel, Interest rate and financial market conditions, Access to cash and cash equivalents held outside the U.S., 28 Table of Contents The effect of natural disasters, man-made disasters, public health issues (including pandemics), and cybersecurity incidents on our business, The impact of changes in foreign and domestic governmental policies, laws, or regulations, The outcome of litigation in which the Company may be involved, particularly litigation or claims related to infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, and The outcome of any future tax matters or tax law changes. We encourage readers of this report to review Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors in this report for further discussion of issues that could affect the Companys future results. We undertake no obligation, other than as may be required by law, to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, changed circumstances, or any other reason after the date of this report. New Accounting Pronouncements We do not expect any recently issued accounting pronouncements to have a material impact to our consolidated financial statements. Non-GAAP Measures The Company has provided reconciliations of the supplemental non-GAAP financial measures, as defined under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, presented herein to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. These supplemental non-GAAP financial measures Consolidated Organic Net sales growth, AIT Organic Net sales growth, and EVM Organic Net sales growth are presented because our management evaluates our financial results both including and excluding the effects of business acquisitions and foreign currency translation, as applicable. Management believes that the supplemental non-GAAP financial measures presented provide additional perspective and insights when analyzing the core operating performance of our business from period to period and trends in our historical operating results. These supplemental non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered superior to, as a substitute for, or as an alternative to, and should be considered in conjunction with the GAAP financial measures presented.