Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, because they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and growth prospects. These risks are not the only risks we face. Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial. No priority or significance is intended by, nor should be attached to, the order in which the risk factors appear. General Business and Industry Risks The Company is vulnerable to the potential difficulties associated with the increase in the complexity of our business . We have grown rapidly over the last several years through acquisition and worldwide growth. This growth has caused increased complexities in the business. We believe our future success depends in part on our ability to manage our growth and increased complexities of our business. The following factors could present difficulties to us: Managing our distribution channel partners and end-user customers; Managing our contract manufacturing and supply chain; Manufacturing an increased number of products; Developing and managing custom solutions offerings; Managing parties to whom we have outsourced portions of our business operations; Managing administrative and operational burdens; Managing stakeholder interests including customer, investor and employee social responsibility matters; Maintaining and improving information technology infrastructure to support growth; Managing the integration of acquisitions; Managing logistical problems common to complex, expansive operations; Managing our international operations; and Attracting, developing and retaining individuals with the requisite technical expertise to develop new technologies and introduce new products and solutions. Inability to consummate future acquisitions at appropriate prices could negatively impact our growth rate and stock price. Our ability to expand revenues, earnings, and cash flow depends in part upon our ability to identify and successfully acquire and integrate businesses at appropriate prices and to realize anticipated synergies. Acquisitions can be difficult to identify and consummate due to competition among prospective buyers and the need to satisfy applicable closing conditions and obtain antitrust and other regulatory approval on acceptable terms. The Company could encounter difficulties in any acquisition it undertakes, including unanticipated integration problems and business disruption. Acquisitions could also dilute stockholder value and adversely affect operating results. We may acquire or make investments in other businesses, technologies, services, products, or solutions. An acquisition may present business issues which are new to us. The process of integrating any acquired business, technology, service, product, or solution into our operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Integration of an acquired company also may consume considerable management time and attention, which could otherwise be available for ongoing operations and the further development of our existing business. These and other factors may result in benefits of an acquisition not being fully realized. Acquisitions also may involve a number of risks, including, but not limited to: Difficulties and uncertainties in retaining the customers, distributors, vendors, or other business relationships from the acquired entities; The loss of key employees of acquired entities; Disruptions in our business due to difficulties integrating and reorganizing operations, products, technologies and personnel; The ability of acquired entities to fulfill their customers obligations; The inheritance of known, and the discovery of unknown, issues or liabilities; Pre-closing and post-closing acquisition-related earnings charges could adversely impact operating results and cash flows in any given period, and the impact may be substantially different from period to period; The failure of acquired entities to meet or exceed expected operating results or cash flows could result in impairment of goodwill or intangible assets acquired; The ability to implement internal controls and accounting systems necessary to be compliant with requirements applicable to public companies subject to SEC reporting, which could result in misstated financial reports; and 13 Table of Contents Future acquisitions could result in changes such as potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, and goodwill impairment charges. The Company may not be able to continue to develop products or solutions to address user needs effectively in an industry characterized by ongoing change. To be successful, we must adapt to rapidly changing technological and application needs by continually improving our products and solutions, as well as introducing new products, solutions, and services, to address user demands. The Companys industry is characterized by: Evolving industry standards; Frequent new product, solution, and service introductions; Evolving distribution channels; Increasing demand for customized product and software solutions; Changing customer demands; and Changing security protocols. Future success will depend on our ability to effectively and economically adapt in this evolving environment. We could incur substantial costs if we must modify our business to adapt to these changes, and may even be unable to adapt to these changes. The Company participates in a competitive industry, which may become more competitive. Competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technology and changes in customer requirements. The markets that we serve are rapidly evolving and highly competitive. Some of our products, solutions and services are in direct competition with similar or alternative products, solutions and services provided by our competitors. In addition, we often compete with local competitors that may have a substantial advantage in attracting customers in their countries due to more established branding in that country, greater knowledge with respect to the tastes and preferences of customers residing in that country or their focus on a single market. Because of the potential for consolidation in any market, such competitors may become larger, and increased size could permit them to operate in wider geographic areas. To remain competitive, we believe we must continue to effectively and economically: Identify and evolve with customer needs, emerging technologies, and industry trends; Monitor disruptive technologies and business models; Innovate, develop and timely commercialize new technologies, solutions, and services; Competitively price our products, solutions and services; Offer superior customer service; Provide products and solutions of high quality and reliability; Provide dependable and efficient distribution networks; and Attract, retain and develop employees with technical expertise and an understanding of our industry and customer needs. We cannot assure that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or technologies. Current or future competitors are likely to continue to develop and introduce new and enhanced products, solutions and services that could cause a decline in market acceptance of our products, solutions or services, or result in the loss of major customers. Increased competition in our industry may result in price reductions, lower gross profit margins, and loss of market share, and could require increased spending on research and development, sales and marketing, and customer support. In addition, we may not be able to effectively anticipate and react to new entrants in the marketplace competing with our products, solutions or services. Further, as we expand into markets beyond our core products, we may face well established competitors, placing us at a disadvantage in a new competitive landscape. Some competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships with suppliers or companies that produce complementary products and solutions, which may create additional pressures on our competitive position in the marketplace. An inability to compete successfully could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Operational Risks The Company has substantial operations and sells a significant portion of our products, solutions and services outside of the U.S. and purchases important components, including final products, from suppliers located outside the U.S., many of whom with operations concentrated in China. Shipments to non-U.S. customers are expected to continue to account for a material portion of Net sales. We also expect to continue the use of third-party contract manufacturing services with non-U.S. production and assembly operations for our products. 14 Table of Contents Risks associated with operations, sales, and purchases outside the United States include: Fluctuating foreign currency rates could restrict sales, increase costs of purchasing, and affect collection of receivables outside of the U.S.; Volatility in foreign credit markets may affect the financial well-being of our customers and suppliers; Violations of anti-corruption laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, could result in large fines and penalties; Adverse changes in, or uncertainty of, local business laws or practices, including the following: Imposition of burdensome tariffs, quotas, taxes, trade barriers, or capital flow restrictions; Restrictions on the export or import of technology may reduce or eliminate the ability to sell in, or purchase from, certain markets; Political and economic instability may reduce demand for our products or put our non-U.S. assets at risk; Limited intellectual property protection in certain countries may limit recourse against infringement on our products or may cause us to refrain from selling in certain geographic territories; Staffing may be difficult including higher than anticipated turnover; A government-controlled exchange rate and limitations on the convertibility of currencies, including the Chinese Yuan; Transportation delays and customs related delays may affect production and distribution of our products; Geopolitical uncertainty or turmoil could negatively affect our operations or those of our customers or suppliers; Effectively managing and overseeing operations that are distant and remote from corporate headquarters; and Integration and enforcement of laws varies significantly among jurisdictions and may change over time. Third parties may allege that the Company or our suppliers infringe upon their intellectual property rights. Periodically, third parties claim that we or our suppliers infringe upon their intellectual property rights. As we continue to expand our business and incorporate new technologies into our products and solutions, these types of claims may increase. Any of these claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and divert the attention of key personnel. To the extent a violation of a third partys patent or other intellectual property right is established, we may be prevented from operating our business as planned and we may be required to pay costly judgments or settlements, enter into costly licensing arrangements or use a non-infringing method to accomplish our business objectives, any of which could have a negative impact on our operating margins. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings for additional information regarding current patent litigation. The inability to protect intellectual property could harm our reputation, and our competitive position may be materially damaged. Our intellectual property is valuable and provides us with certain competitive advantages. We use copyrights, patents, trademarks, trade secrets, and contracts to protect these proprietary rights. Despite these precautions, third parties may be able to copy or reproduce aspects of our intellectual property and our products or, without authorization, to misappropriate and use information we regard as trade secrets. Additionally, the intellectual property rights we obtain may not be sufficient to provide us with a competitive advantage and may be successfully challenged, invalidated, circumvented, or infringed. In any infringement litigation that the Company may undertake to protect our intellectual property, any award of monetary damages may be unlikely or very difficult to obtain, and any such award we may receive may not be commercially valuable. Furthermore, efforts to enforce or protect our proprietary rights may be ineffective and could result in the invalidation or narrowing of the scope of our intellectual property and may cause us to incur substantial litigation costs. Because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of the Companys confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. Some aspects of our business and services also rely on technologies, software, and content developed by or licensed from third parties, and we may not be able to maintain our relationships with such third parties or enter into similar relationships in the future on reasonable terms or at all. We currently use third-party and/or open source operating systems and associated application ecosystems in certain of our products and solutions. Such parties ceasing continued development of the operating systems or restricting our access to such operating systems could adversely impact our business and financial results. We are dependent on third-parties continued development of operating systems, software application ecosystem infrastructures, and such third-parties approval of our implementations of their operating systems and associated applications. If such parties cease to continue development or support of such operating systems or restrict our access to such operating systems, we would be required to change our strategy for such devices. Our financial results could be negatively impacted by a resulting shift away from the operating systems we currently use and the associated applications ecosystem could be costly and difficult. A strategy shift could increase the burden of development on the Company and potentially create a gap in our portfolio for a period of time, which could competitively disadvantage us. Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt business operations. We rely on information technology systems throughout the Company to keep financial records, process orders, manage inventory, coordinate shipments to distributors and customers, maintain confidential and proprietary information, and other technical activities, and operate other critical functions such as internet connectivity, network communications, and email. The Company stores confidential and proprietary information 15 Table of Contents through cloud-based services that are hosted by third parties where we have less influence over security protocols. In addition, our customers may use certain of our products and solutions to transmit and/or process personal data and other sensitive information. Like many companies, we continually strive to meet industry information security standards relevant to our business. We periodically perform vulnerability assessments, remediate vulnerabilities, review log/access, perform system maintenance, manage network perimeter protection, implement and manage disaster recovery testing, and provide periodic educational sessions to our employees to foster awareness of schemes to access sensitive information. Despite our implementation of a variety of security controls and measures, as well as those of our third-party vendors, there is no assurance that such actions will be sufficient to prevent a cybersecurity incident. Further, as cybercrime and threats continue to rapidly evolve and become increasingly more difficult to detect and defend against, our current security controls and measures may not be effective in preventing cybersecurity incidents and we may not have the capabilities to detect certain vulnerabilities. A cybersecurity incident could include an attempt to gain unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or causing operational disruption. Phishing and other types of attempts to obtain unauthorized information or access are often sophisticated and difficult to detect or defeat. Cybersecurity incidents can take a variety of forms including, unintentional events as well as deliberate attacks by individuals, groups and sophisticated organizations, such as state sponsored organizations or nation-state actors. Further, certain of our third party vendors have limited access to our employee and customer data and may use this data in unauthorized ways. Any such cybersecurity incident or misuse of our employees or customers data may lead to a material disruption of our core business systems, the loss or corruption of confidential business information, and/or the disclosure of personal data that in each case could result in an adverse business impact as well as possible damage to our brand. This could also lead to a public disclosure or theft of private intellectual property and a possible loss of customer confidence. While we have experienced and expect to continue to experience these types of threats and incidents, there have been no material incidents incurred to-date at the Company. If our core business operations, or that of one of our third-party service providers, were to be breached, this could affect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of our systems and data. Any failure on the part of us or our third-party service providers to maintain the security of data we are required to protect, including via the penetration of our network security and the misappropriation of confidential and proprietary information, could result in: business disruption; damage to our reputation; financial obligations to third parties; fines, penalties, regulatory proceedings; private litigation with potentially large costs; deterioration in our suppliers, distributors, and customers confidence in us; as well as other competitive disadvantages. Such failures to maintain the security of data could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. While we continue to perform security due diligence, there is always the possibility of a significant breach. Any threats or security breaches to our systems may negatively impact our customers. Our products and solutions that are deployed in customer environments also have the possibility of being breached, which could result in disclosure of a customers confidential information, or disrupt the availability of the customers data and systems. Further, our customers may fail to adopt adequate security controls and measures, or may fail to timely update their products and solutions to install or enable security patches, which may result in a security breach. The market perception of the effectiveness of our products and our reputation could also be harmed as a result of any actual or perceived security breach that occurs in our network or in the network of a customer of our products, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the systems of other vendors or to actions of malicious parties. It is possible that such a breach, or a perceived breach, could result in delays in, or loss of market acceptance of, our products, solutions or services; diversion of our resources; injury to our reputation; theft or misuse of our intellectual property or other assets; increased service and warranty expenses; and payment of damages. To date, we have had no material incidents related to the security of our products or solutions. Further, strategic customers may negotiate specific controls and we may incur additional costs to comply with such customer-specific controls. Although we maintain insurance related to cybersecurity risks, there can be no assurance that our insurance will cover the particular cyber incident at issue or that such coverage will be sufficient. We may incur liabilities as a result of product failures due to actual or apparent design or manufacturing defects. We have been subject to product liability claims, and may continue to be subject to such claims, including claims for property or economic damages or personal injury, where damages arose, and may continue to arise, from our products as a result of actual or apparent design or manufacturing defects. In addition, such design or manufacturing defects may occur not only in our own designed products, but also in components provided by third-party suppliers. We seek to limit such risk through insurance protection as well as product design, manufacturing quality control processes, product testing and contractual indemnification from suppliers. Although there have been no material claims to-date at the Company, due to the growing size of the Companys installed product base and growing number of applications in which our products can be used, an actual or alleged design or manufacturing defect could result in product recalls, injury to our reputation, and customer service costs or legal costs that could have material adverse effects on our financial results. Defects or errors in the Companys software products could harm our reputation, result in significant cost to us, and impair our ability to market such products. Our software may contain undetected errors, defects, or bugs. Although we have not suffered significant harm from any errors, defects, or bugs to date, we may discover significant errors, defects, or bugs in the future that we may not be able to correct or correct in a timely manner. Any future errors, defects, or bugs found in our software 16 Table of Contents products and related services may result in delays in, or loss of market acceptance of, our products, solutions or services; diversion of resources; injury to reputation; increased service and warranty expenses; and payment of damages; which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Our business success depends on our ability to attract, retain, develop and motivate key personnel. Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected by increased competition for highly skilled employees, higher employee turnover, or increased compensation and benefit costs. The future success of the Company is substantially dependent on the continued services and contributions of key personnel, including senior management and other highly skilled employees. The experience, industry knowledge, and skill sets of our employees materially benefit our operations and performance, and the ability to attract, retain, develop, and motivate highly skilled employees is important to our long-term success. Skilled employees in our industry are in high demand and competition for their experience and skill sets is intense. The incentives and benefits we have available to attract, retain, and motivate employees may become less effective as employees seek new or different opportunities based on factors such as compensation, benefits, mobility, and flexibility that are different from what we offer. Although we strive to be an employer of choice, we may not be able to continue to successfully attract, retain, develop, or motivate key personnel in the future. Any disruption in the services of key personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. A natural disaster, widespread public health issue, civil unrest, or man-made disaster may cause supply disruptions that could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Natural disasters or widespread public health issues, including pandemics, may occur in the future and the Company is not able to predict to what extent or duration any such disruptions will have on our ability to maintain ordinary business operations. The Companys operations and facilities are subject to catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, terrorism, or other natural or man-made disasters. If any of our facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue, and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. Following an interruption to our business, the Company could require substantial recovery time, experience significant expenditures to resume operations, and lose significant sales. If such a disruption were to occur, we could breach agreements, our reputation could be harmed, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. The consequences of a natural disaster or widespread public health issue may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic have and may continue to adversely affect our business, financial results, and results of operations. The coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic has been, and continues to be, complex and rapidly evolving, and has impacted our business, most recently, primarily related to supply chain disruption (including higher fulfillment costs and component shortages) and labor constraints. The duration and extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, operations and financial results depends on factors that cannot be accurately predicted at this time, such as the severity and transmission rate of COVID-19, the emergence of new variants of the virus, the extent and effectiveness of containment actions, the extent to which vaccines and/or other medical treatments are developed and made available to and accepted by the public, and the impact of these and other factors on our stakeholders. The U.S. federal, state, and local governments as well as non-U.S. governments, to varying degrees, have imposed, and continue to impose, several protocols and regulations restricting activities of individuals in an effort to limit the spread of COVID-19. Over the course of the pandemic we have implemented a number of measures in an effort to protect the health and well-being of our employees, customers and suppliers, including having the majority of office workers work remotely during the height of the pandemic and gradually returning to offices as restrictions are lifted, limiting employee travel, and implementing more strenuous health and safety measures for hosting and attending in-person industry events. As governments ease their restrictions, we have been allowing, and will continue to allow, our employees to come back to work in our offices in a controlled approach, with modified business practices, including implementing social distancing protocols consistent with government regulations, vaccine verification, health screening, office capacity restrictions and tracking and tracing protocols where applicable, provision of personal protective equipment, increasing air exchange/ventilation and extensively and frequently disinfecting our workspaces. However, there is no guarantee that such protocols will be successful in preventing the spread of COVID-19 amongst our employees, and even as employees return to our offices, we may be prevented from conducting business activities at full capacity for an indefinite period of time. The extent and duration of ongoing workplace restrictions and limitations, particularly in sites with significant headcount, could adversely impact our operations and our ability to execute on strategic imperatives for our business. Moreover, vaccine and testing mandates have been announced in jurisdictions in which our businesses operate. As a company under U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) jurisdiction, we must comply with OSHA COVID-19 mandates, such as the Emergency Temporary Standard (ETS) that was announced on November 5, 2021, but currently remains in flux and under review by the courts as to final implementation and compliance. Our implementation of these mandates, and any future mandates, may result in employee attrition, including attrition of critically skilled labor, and may cause difficulty in attracting and retaining talent necessary for our business operations and securing future labor needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The potential negative effects to our operations, including reductions in production levels, 17 Table of Contents research and development activities, and increased efforts to mitigate the impact of COVID-19, may adversely affect our ability to deliver our products, solutions and services. Further, the conditions caused by COVID-19 have affected, and may continue to affect, the overall demand environment for our products, solutions and services. The level of demand for certain product components has resulted in, and may continue to result in, lengthened lead times and higher input costs, including freight. This has impacted, and may continue to impact, our ability to meet customer demand as well as profitability. An inability to meet customer demand may also adversely affect our customers ability or willingness to purchase our products, solutions or services. Additionally, our financial results may be adversely impacted by challenges in the macroeconomic environment, including market inflation, as a result of global supply chain shortages. If COVID-19 or its variants become more prevalent in the locations where our customers, suppliers, or we conduct business, we may experience more pronounced disruptions in our operations. If we are not able to respond to and manage the impact of such events effectively, our business and results of operations in future periods may be adversely affected. Moreover, the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic may exacerbate other pre-existing risks, such as global economic conditions, political, regulatory, social, financial, operational and cybersecurity as well as similar risks relating to our suppliers and customers, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are exposed to risks under large, multi-year system and solutions and services contracts that may negatively impact our business. We enter into large, multi-year system and solutions and services contracts with our customers that expose us to risks, including among others: (i) technological risks, especially when contracts involve new technology; (ii) financial risks, including the accuracy of estimates inherent in projecting costs associated with large, long-term contracts and the related impact on operating results; and (iii) cybersecurity risks, especially in solutions or managed services contracts with customers that process personal data. Recovery of front-loaded costs incurred on long-term managed services and software-based solutions contracts with customers is dependent on the continued viability of such customers. The insolvency of customers could result in a loss of anticipated future revenue attributable to that program or product, which could have an adverse impact on our profitability. We enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event we fail to properly estimate our costs. If our initial cost estimates are incorrect, we can lose money on these contracts. Because many of these contracts involve new technologies and applications and require the Company to engage subcontractors and can last multiple years, unforeseen events, such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in the price of raw materials, problems with our subcontractors or suppliers, and other cost overruns, can result in the contract pricing becoming less favorable or even unprofitable to us and have an adverse impact on our financial results. In addition, a significant increase in inflation rates could have an adverse impact on the profitability of longer-term contracts. We utilize the services of subcontractors to perform under many of our contracts, and the inability of our subcontractors to perform in a timely and compliant manner could negatively impact our performance obligations as the prime contractor. We engage subcontractors on many of our contracts and our use of subcontractors has and may continue to increase as we expand our global solutions and services business. Our subcontractors may further subcontract performance and may supply third-party products and software. We may have disputes with our subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by a subcontractor and the functionality, warranty and indemnities of products, software, and services supplied by a subcontractor. We are not always successful in passing along customer requirements to our subcontractors, and thus in some cases may be required to absorb contractual risks from our customers without corresponding back-to-back coverage from our subcontractors. Our subcontractors may not be able to acquire or maintain the quality of the materials, components, subsystems, and services they supply, or secure preferred warranty and indemnity coverage from their suppliers, which might result in greater product returns, service problems, warranty claims and costs, and regulatory compliance issues and could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have outsourced portions of certain business operations such as repair, distribution, engineering services, and information technology services and may outsource additional business operations, which limits our control over these business operations and exposes us to additional risk as a result of the actions of our outsource partners. We are not able to directly control certain business operations that we outsource. Our outsource partners may not prioritize our business over that of their other customers and they may not meet our desired level of service, cost reductions, or other metrics. In some cases, our outsource partners actions may result in our being found to be in violation of laws or regulations, such as import or export regulations. As many of our outsource partners operate outside of the U.S., our outsourcing activity exposes us to information security vulnerabilities and increases our global risks. In addition, we are exposed to the financial viability of our outsource partners. Once a business activity is outsourced, we may be contractually prohibited from, or may not practically be able to, bring such activity back within the Company or move it to another outsource partner. The actions of our outsource partners could result in reputational damage to us and could negatively impact our financial results. Further, we have from time-to-time, and in certain instances will continue to, transition our outsourced operations to new service providers and/or to different geographies. Such transition activities between new or existing outsource partners or across different geographies, as well as insourcing activities, could 18 Table of Contents result in additional cost, time and management attention in order to effectively manage the transition, which could negatively impact our financial results. Failure of our suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers, and representatives to use acceptable legal or ethical business practices could negatively impact our business. It is our policy to require suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers, and third-party sales representatives (TPSRs) to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules, and regulations, including those regarding working conditions, employment practices, environmental compliance, anti-corruption, and trademark and copyright licensing. However, we do not control their labor and other business practices. If one of our suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers, or TPSRs violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are regarded as unethical, the shipment of finished products to us could be interrupted, orders could be canceled, relationships could be terminated, and our reputation could be damaged. If one of our suppliers or subcontractors fails to procure necessary license rights to trademarks, copyrights, or patents, legal action could be taken against us that could impact the salability of the Companys products and solutions, and expose us to financial obligations to a third-party. Any of these events could have a negative impact on our sales and results of operations. We rely on third-party dealers, distributors, and resellers to sell many of our products, services and solutions, and their failure to effectively bring our products, services and solutions to market may negatively affect our results of operation and financial results. In addition to our own sales force, we offer our products, services and solutions through a variety of third-party dealers, distributors, and resellers who may also market other products, services and solutions that compete with ours. Failure of one or more of our third-party dealers, distributors, or resellers to effectively promote our offerings could affect our ability to bring products, services and solutions to market and have a negative impact on our results of operations. Any changes to our channel program may cause some of our third-party dealers, distributors, or resellers to exit the program due to modifications to the program structure, which may reduce our ability to bring products and solutions to market and could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Some of these third-parties are smaller and more likely to be impacted by a significant decrease in available credit that could result from a weakness in the financial markets. If credit pressures or other financial difficulties result in insolvency for third-party dealers, distributors, or resellers and we are unable to successfully transition end-customers to purchase our products and solutions from other third-parties or from us directly, it may cause, and in some cases, has caused, a negative impact on our financial results. Final assembly of certain of our products is performed by third-party electronics manufacturers. We may be dependent on these third-party electronics manufacturers as a sole-source of supply for the manufacture of such products. A failure by such manufacturers to provide manufacturing services to us as we require, or any disruption in such manufacturing services up to and including a catastrophic shut-down, may adversely affect our business results. Because we rely on these third-party electronics manufacturers to manufacture our products, we may incur increased business continuity risks. We are not able to exercise direct control over the assembly or related operations of certain of our products. If these third-party manufacturers experience business difficulties or fail to meet our manufacturing needs, then we may be unable to satisfy customer product demands, lose sales, and be unable to maintain customer relationships. Longer production lead times may result in shortages of certain products and inadequate inventories during periods of unanticipated higher demand. Without such third parties continuing to manufacture our products, we may have no other means of final assembly of certain of our products until we are able to secure the manufacturing capability at another facility or develop an alternative manufacturing facility. This transition could be costly and time consuming. We have taken actions to diversify, and may take additional actions to diversify in the future, our product sourcing footprint. Such actions have, and may again, result in additional costs. Our future operating results depend on our ability to purchase a sufficient amount of materials, parts, and components, as well as services and software to meet the demands of customers. We source some of our components from sole source suppliers. Any disruption to our suppliers or significant increase in the price of supplies, inclusive of transportation costs, could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Our ability to meet customers demands depends, in part, on our ability to obtain in a timely manner an adequate delivery of quality materials, parts, and components, as well as services and software from our suppliers. In addition, certain supplies are available only from a single source or limited sources and we may not be able to diversify sources in a timely manner. If demand for our products, solutions or services increases from our current expectations or if suppliers are unable or unwilling to meet our demand for other reasons, including as a result of natural disasters, public health issues, severe weather conditions, or financial issues, we could experience an interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies that could have a negative impact on our business. We have experienced shortages in the past that have negatively impacted our results of operations and may experience such shortages in the future. At times we have and may continue to execute multi-year purchase commitments with suppliers that contain minimum spend thresholds, which we are obligated to fulfill even if customer demand declines. In addition, volatility in customer demand, product availability, and costs to transport products, may result in increased operating input costs. Also, credit constraints at our suppliers could cause us to accelerate payment of accounts payable by us, impacting our cash flow. 19 Table of Contents In addition, our current contracts with certain suppliers may be canceled or not extended by such suppliers and, therefore, not afford us with sufficient protection against a reduction or interruption in supplies. Moreover, in the event any of these suppliers breach their contracts with us, our legal remedies associated with such a breach may be insufficient to compensate us for any damages it may suffer. Financial and Market Risks The impact of changes in customs duties and trade policies in the United States and corresponding actions by other countries in which the Company does business could adversely affect our financial performance. The Company currently imports a significant percentage of our products into the U.S., and an increase in customs duties with respect to these imports could negatively impact the Companys financial performance. Although the Company has taken actions to diversify its product sourcing footprint, these efforts may not be sufficient to mitigate negative impacts on the Companys financial performance resulting from an increase in customs duties. Taxing authority challenges may lead to tax payments exceeding current reserves. We are subject to, and may become subject to, ongoing tax examinations in various jurisdictions. As a result, we may record incremental tax expense based on expected outcomes of such matters. In addition, we may adjust previously reported tax reserves based on expected results of these examinations. Such adjustments could result in an increase or decrease to the Companys effective tax rate and cash flows. Future changes in tax law in various jurisdictions around the world and income tax holidays could have a material impact on our effective tax rate, foreign rate differential, future income tax expense, and cash flows. Forecasting our estimated annual effective tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty, and there may be material differences between our forecasted and actual tax rates. Forecasts of our income tax position and effective tax rate are complex, subject to uncertainty and periodic updates because our income tax position for each year combines the effects of a mix of profits earned and losses incurred by us in various tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates, as well as changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the impact of various accounting rules and changes to these rules, the results of examinations by various tax authorities, and the impact of any acquisition, business combination, disposition or other reorganization, or financing transaction. As a multinational corporation, we conduct our business in many countries and are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions. The taxation of our business is subject to the application of multiple, and sometimes conflicting, tax laws and regulations, as well as multinational tax conventions. Many countries have recently adopted, or are considering the adoption of, revisions to their respective tax laws based on the on-going reports issued by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD)/G20 Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) Project, which could materially impact our tax liability due to our organizational structure and significant operations outside of the U.S. Our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic distribution of our worldwide earnings or losses resulting from our structure and operating model, the tax regulations and tax holidays in each geographic region, and the availability of tax credits and carry-forwards. The application of tax laws and regulations is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment, and uncertainty. Tax laws themselves are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation, and the evolution of regulations and court rulings. Consequently, taxing authorities may impose tax assessments or judgments against us that could materially impact our tax liability and/or our effective income tax rate. Economic conditions and financial market disruptions may adversely affect our business and results of operations . Adverse economic conditions or reduced information technology spending may negatively impact our business. General disruption of financial markets and a related general economic downturn could adversely affect our business and financial condition through a reduction in demand for our products, solutions or services by our customers. If a slowdown were severe enough, it could require further impairment testing and write-downs of goodwill and other intangible assets. Cost reduction actions may be necessary and might lead to restructuring charges. A tightening of financial credit could adversely affect our customers, suppliers, outsourced manufacturers, and channel partners (e.g., distributors and resellers) from obtaining adequate credit for the financing of significant purchases. An economic downturn could also result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for our products, solutions and services; negatively impacting the ability to collect accounts receivable on a timely basis; result in additional reserves for uncollectible accounts receivable; and require additional reserves for inventory obsolescence. Higher volatility and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates for the U.S. Dollar against currencies such as the Euro, British Pound Sterling and Czech Koruna could negatively impact product sales, margins, and cash flows. It is important that we are able to obtain many different types of insurance, and if we are not able to obtain insurance or exhaust our coverage, we may be forced to retain the risk. We have many types of insurance coverage and are also self-insured for some risks and obligations. Our third-party insurance coverage varies from time to time in both type and amount depending on availability, cost and our decisions with respect to risk retention. Economic conditions and uncertainties in global markets may adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain third-party insurance. In addition, our third-party insurance policies are subject to deductibles, policy limits, and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis. Further, certain types of coverages may be difficult or expensive to obtain. We self-insure against certain 20 Table of Contents business risks and expenses where we believe we can adequately self-insure against the anticipated exposure and risk or where insurance is either not deemed cost-effective or is not available. If the amount of our third-party insurance coverage is not available or adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, or to the extent we have elected to self-insure, we may be forced to bear substantial costs from an accident, incident, or claim. Losses not covered by insurance could be substantial and unpredictable and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our business. Our indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: We may experience difficulty in satisfying our obligations with respect to our existing indebtedness or future indebtedness; Our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or general corporate purposes may be impaired; We may be at a competitive disadvantage with reduced flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changing conditions in the industry, including increased competition; and We may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in the business. We expect to fund our expenses and to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness from cash flow from operations. Our ability to meet our expenses and to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness when due depends on our future performance and ability to collect cash from our customers, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions in the markets where we operate and pressure from competitors. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flows from operations or if future borrowings are not available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before the maturity thereof, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, we may not be able to effect any of these actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our ability to restructure or refinance our indebtedness will depend on the condition of the capital and debt markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict business operations. The terms of anticipated or future debt instruments may limit or prevent us from taking any of these actions. In addition, any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and/or principal on outstanding indebtedness would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to access additional capital on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations, or to refinance or restructure our obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would have an adverse effect, which could be material, on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as on our ability to satisfy the obligations in respect of our indebtedness. Our use of derivative financial instruments to reduce interest rate risk may result in added volatility in our operating results . We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. However, we do utilize derivative financial instruments to reduce interest rate risk associated with our indebtedness. To manage variable interest rate risk, we entered into forward interest rate swap agreements, which will effectively convert a portion of our indebtedness into a fixed rate loan. Under generally accepted accounting principles, changes in the fair values of the swap contracts are reflected in our Consolidated Statements of Operations as a component of Interest expense, net if not hedged. The associated impact on our quarterly operating results is directly related to changes in prevailing interest rates. If interest rates increase, we would have a non-cash gain on the swaps, and vice versa in the event of a decrease in interest rates. Consequently, these swaps may introduce additional volatility to our operating results. Legal and Regulatory Risks We could be adversely impacted by changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters. Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our businesses, including, but not limited to, revenue recognition, business acquisition purchase price allocations, impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, inventories, tax matters, and litigation and other contingent liabilities are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates, or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition. New accounting guidance may also require systems and other changes that could increase our operating costs and/or change our financial statements. Laws and regulations relating to the handling of personal data may result in increased costs, legal claims, or fines against the Company. As part of our operations, the Company collects, uses, stores, and transfers personal data of third parties, employees and limited customer data in and across various jurisdictions. Laws and regulations relating to the handling of such personal 21 Table of Contents data may result in increased costs, legal claims, or fines against the Company. Existing laws and emerging regulations may be inconsistent across jurisdictions and are subject to evolving and differing (sometimes conflicting) interpretations. Government officials, regulators and privacy advocates are increasingly scrutinizing how companies collect, process, use, store, share and transmit personal data, which may result in new interpretations of existing laws that impact our business. Compliance with these laws may require us to, among other things, make changes in services, business practices, or internal systems that may result in increased costs, lower revenue, reduced efficiency, or greater difficulty in competing with foreign-based firms. Further, there is no assurance that we will be able to meet additional requirements that may be imposed on the transfer of personal data without incurring expenses. We may experience reluctance or refusal by customers to purchase or continue to use our services due to concerns regarding their data protection obligations. Our actual or perceived failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or other obligations to which we may be subject, or to protect personal data from unauthorized access, use, or other processing, may subject the Company to enforcement actions and regulatory investigations, claims, legal proceedings or other actions, reputational harm and loss of goodwill, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial performance, and business. The unfavorable outcome of any pending or future litigation, arbitration, or administrative action could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. From time to time we are a party to litigation, arbitration, or administrative actions. Our financial results and reputation could be negatively impacted by unfavorable outcomes to any pending or future litigation or administrative actions, including those related to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, or other anti-corruption laws. There can be no assurances as to the favorable outcome of any litigation or administrative proceedings. In addition, it can be very costly to defend litigation or administrative proceedings and these costs could negatively impact our financial results. Honeywell has filed patent litigation lawsuits against Zebra in multiple jurisdictions, including the International Trade Commission and Federal District Court in the Western District of Texas in the United States, as well as foreign courts in the United Kingdom, Germany and China. The remedies sought in these lawsuits include damages and injunctive relief. There can be no guarantee that the outcome of this litigation will not have a negative impact to our business or results of operations. For additional information, see Item 3, Legal Proceedings . We are subject to a wide range of product regulatory and safety, consumer, worker safety, and environmental laws. Our operations and the products we manufacture and/or sell are subject to a wide range of product regulatory and safety, consumer, worker safety, and environmental laws and regulations. Compliance with such existing or future laws and regulations could subject us to future costs or liabilities, impact our production capabilities, constrict our ability to sell, expand or acquire facilities, restrict what products, solutions and services we can offer, and generally impact our financial performance. Some of these laws are environmental and relate to the use, disposal, remediation, emission and discharge of, and exposure to hazardous substances. These laws often impose liability and can require parties to fund remedial studies or actions regardless of fault. We continue to incur disposal costs and have ongoing remediation obligations. Environmental laws have tended to become more stringent over time and any new obligations under these laws could have a negative impact on our operations or financial performance. Laws focused on the energy efficiency of electronic products and accessories; recycling of both electronic products and packaging; reducing or eliminating certain hazardous substances in electronic products; and the transportation of batteries continue to expand significantly. Laws pertaining to accessibility features of electronic products, standardization of connectors and power supplies, the transportation of lithium-ion batteries, and other aspects are also proliferating. There are also demanding and rapidly changing laws around the globe related to issues such as product safety, radio interference, radio frequency radiation exposure, medical related functionality, and consumer and social mandates pertaining to use of wireless or electronic equipment. These laws, and changes to these laws, could have a substantial impact on whether we can offer certain products, solutions, and services, and on what capabilities and characteristics our products, solutions or services can or must include. These laws impact our products and negatively affect our ability to manufacture and sell products competitively. We expect these trends to continue. In addition, we anticipate that we will see increased demand to meet voluntary criteria related to reduction or elimination of certain constituents from products, increasing energy efficiency, and providing additional accessibility. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties Our corporate headquarters are located in Lincolnshire, Illinois; a northern suburb of Chicago. We also operate manufacturing, repair, distribution and warehousing, administrative, research, and sales facilities in other U.S. and international locations. 22 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2021, the Company owned three laboratory and warehouse facilities located in the U.S., U.K., and Canada. As of December 31, 2021, the Company had a total of 125 leased facilities with locations spread globally; 38 of which are located in the U.S. and 87 of which are located in other countries. See Note 13, Leases in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to the Companys lease arrangements. We generally consider the productive capacity of our facilities to be adequate and sufficient for our requirements. The extent of utilization of each manufacturing facility varies throughout the year. Item 3. Legal Proceedings On September 29-30, 2021, Honeywell filed patent litigation lawsuits against Zebra in multiple jurisdictions, including the International Trade Commission and Federal District Court in the Western District of Texas in the United States, as well as foreign courts in the United Kingdom, Germany and China. Honeywell has made substantially similar allegations of patent infringement in all cases filed. The technology addressed in the various actions generally includes aspects of data capture, barcode reading, and scanning. The allegedly infringing Zebra products identified in the actions are described as barcode scanners, mobile computers with barcode scanning capabilities, scan engines, and components thereof. The remedies sought in these lawsuits include damages and injunctive relief. The same Zebra products and technology are implicated in all of the lawsuits. The cases are in their earliest stages and Zebra intends to vigorously defend against these infringement allegations. See Note 14, Accrued Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of certain other matters. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 23 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Stock Information Our Class A Common Stock is traded on the NASDAQ Stock Market, LLC under the symbol ZBRA. As of February 3, 2022, the last reported price for the Companys Class A Common Stock was $508.30 per share, and there were 94 registered stockholders of record for Zebras Class A Common Stock. The number of beneficial owners is substantially greater than the number of stockholders of record because a large portion of our Class A common stock is transacted through banks and brokers. Dividend Policy Since our initial public offering in 1991, we have not declared any cash dividends or distributions on our capital stock. We currently do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Treasury Shares The following table sets forth information with respect to repurchases of the Companys common stock for the three months ended December 31, 2021. Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs (1) Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (in millions) (1) October 3, 2021 - October 30, 2021 13,671 $ 494.74 13,671 $ 721 October 31, 2021 - November 27, 2021 721 November 28, 2021 - December 31, 2021 43,055 580.61 43,055 696 Total 56,726 $ 559.91 56,726 $ 696 (1) On July 30, 2019, the Company announced that its Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program for up to an aggregate amount of $1 billion of its outstanding shares of common stock. Repurchases may be effected from time to time through open market purchases, including pursuant to a pre-set trading plan meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5-1(c) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The program does not have a stated expiration date. 24 Table of Contents Stock Performance Graph The following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return, calculated on a dividend-reinvested basis, in Zebra Technologies Corporation Class A Common Stock, the S&P 500 Index, and the S&P 500 Information Technology Index for the five years ended December 31, 2021. The comparison assumes that $100 was invested in each of the Companys Class A Common Stock, the S&P 500 Index, and the S&P 500 Information Technology Index as of the market close on December 31, 2016. Note that historic stock price performance is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. Value at each year-end of $100 initial investment made on December 31, 2016 12/16 12/17 12/18 12/19 12/20 12/21 Zebra Technologies Corporation $ 100.00 $ 121.04 $ 185.67 $ 297.85 $ 448.15 $ 694.03 S&P 500 $ 100.00 $ 121.83 $ 116.49 $ 153.17 $ 181.35 $ 233.41 S&P 500 Information Technology $ 100.00 $ 138.83 $ 138.43 $ 208.05 $ 299.37 $ 402.73 25 Table of Contents Item 6. [Reserved] 26 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This section generally discusses fiscal 2021 and 2020 items and year-over-year comparisons between 2021 and 2020. Discussions of 2019 items and year-over-year comparisons between 2020 and 2019 are not included herein. Refer to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020 for that discussion. Overview Zebra Technologies Corporation and its subsidiaries (Zebra or the Company) is a global leader respected for innovative Enterprise Asset Intelligence (EAI) solutions in the automatic identification and data capture solutions industry. We design, manufacture, and sell a broad range of products and solutions, including cloud-based subscriptions, that capture and move data. These products and solutions include mobile computers; barcode scanners and imagers; radio frequency identification device (RFID) readers; specialty printers for barcode labeling and personal identification; real-time location systems (RTLS); related accessories and supplies, such as self-adhesive labels and other consumables; and related software applications. We also provide a full range of services, including maintenance, technical support, repair, managed and professional services, as well as various workflow optimization solutions, including cloud-based software subscriptions and robotic automation solutions. End-users of our products, solutions and services include those in the retail and e-commerce, manufacturing, transportation and logistics, healthcare, public sector, and other industries within the following regions: North America; Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA); Asia-Pacific; and Latin America. We provide our products, solutions, and services in approximately 180 countries, with 128 facilities and approximately 9,800 employees worldwide. Our customers have traditionally benefited from proven solutions that increase productivity and improve asset efficiency and utilization. The Company is poised to drive, and capitalize on, the evolution of the data capture industry into the broader EAI industry, supported by technology trends including the Internet of Things (IoT), ubiquitous mobility, automation, cloud computing, and the increasingly on-demand global economy. EAI solutions offer additional benefits to our customers including real-time, data-driven insights that improve operational visibility and drive workflow optimization. The Companys operations consist of two reportable segments that provide complementary offerings to our customers: Asset Intelligence & Tracking (AIT) and Enterprise Visibility & Mobility (EVM). The AIT segment is an industry leader in barcode printing and asset tracking technologies. Its major product lines include barcode and card printers, supplies, including temperature-monitoring labels, services, and location solutions. The EVM segment is an industry leader in automatic information and data capture solutions. Its major product lines include mobile computing, data capture, RFID, fixed industrial scanning and machine vision, services, and workflow optimization solutions. Our workflow optimization solutions include cloud-based software subscriptions, retail solutions, and robotic automation solutions. In the first quarter of 2021, the retail solutions product line, which provides a range of physical inventory management solutions with application in the retail industry, including solutions for full store physical inventories, cycle counts and analytics, moved from our AIT segment into our EVM segment contemporaneous with a change in our organizational structure and management of the business. We have reported our results reflecting this change, including historical periods, on a comparable basis. This change did not have an impact to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Beginning in the first quarter of 2022, we will move the location solutions product line from our AIT segment into our EVM segment contemporaneously with a change in our organizational structure and management of the business. We will begin reporting our results reflecting this change in the first quarter of 2022 and will present historical periods on a comparable basis. This change will not have an impact to the Consolidated Financial Statements and is immaterial to our current and historical reportable segment results. Recent Developments COVID-19 Outbreak The global coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic continues to be complex and rapidly evolving. Governmental agencies, to varying degrees, have imposed, and continue to impose, several protocols and regulations restricting activities of individuals in an effort to limit the spread of COVID-19. We have implemented a number of measures in an effort to protect our employees health and well-being over the course of the pandemic tailored to address the local impacts, including having the majority of office workers work remotely during the height of the pandemic and gradually returning to offices as restrictions are lifted, 27 Table of Contents limiting employee travel, and implementing more strenuous health and safety measures for hosting and attending in-person industry events. Throughout the pandemic, distribution centers and repair centers have remained open at varying capacity levels to ensure continued support to our customers, many of whom provide essential goods and services to communities. As governments ease their restrictions, we have been allowing, and will continue to allow, our employees to come back to work in our offices in a controlled approach, with modified business practices, including masking and social distancing protocols consistent with government regulations, vaccine verification, health screening, office capacity restrictions and tracking and tracing protocols where applicable, provision of personal protective equipment, increasing air exchange/ventilation and extensively and frequently disinfecting our workspaces. The negative impacts to Net sales from the pandemic, including declines in customer demand and impacts of operational closures within our supply chain, were most pronounced in the first half of 2020 and lessened later in 2020 as the global economic recovery took shape. While the ultimate duration of the pandemic and timing of recovery in each region remains highly uncertain, the Companys 2021 sales and profitability, particularly in the first half of the year, have benefited from pent-up demand from customers who we believe had delayed purchases in 2020 due to the pandemic, as well as the resulting acceleration of the underlying trend to digitize and automate workflows. The level of demand for certain product components has resulted in lengthened lead times and higher input costs in 2021, including freight, which have become more significant during the second half of 2021 and, in some cases, have impacted our ability to meet customer demand. The Company expects input costs to remain elevated for some period of time, which we believe will be partially mitigated through higher pricing where permitted by market conditions. The availability of certain component parts has and may continue to negatively impact our ability to meet forecasted customer demand as suppliers of necessary parts allocate supply among their customers, including the Company. Acquisitions Antuit: On October 7, 2021, the Company acquired Antuit Holdings Pte. Ltd. (Antuit) for $145 million in cash, net of cash acquired. Antuit is a provider of demand-sensing and pricing optimization software solutions for retail and consumer products companies. Through this acquisition, the Company expands its portfolio of software solution offerings to customers in these industries by combining Antuits platform with its existing software solutions and EVM products. The operating results of Antuit are included in the EVM segment. Fetch : On August 9, 2021, the Company acquired Fetch Robotics, Inc. (Fetch) for total purchase consideration of $301 million, which consisted of $290 million in cash paid, net of cash acquired, and the fair value of the Companys existing minority ownership interest in Fetch of $11 million, as remeasured upon acquisition. Fetch is a provider of autonomous mobile robot solutions for customers who operate in the manufacturing, distribution, and fulfillment industries, enabling customers to optimize workflows through robotic automation. Through this acquisition, the Company intends to expand its automation solution offerings within these industries. The operating results of Fetch are included within the EVM segment. Adaptive Vision: On May 17, 2021, the Company acquired Adaptive Vision Sp. z o.o. (Adaptive Vision) for $18 million in cash, net of cash acquired. Adaptive Vision is a provider of graphical machine vision software with applications in the manufacturing industry, as well as a provider of libraries and other offerings for machine vision developers. The operating results of Adaptive Vision are included within the EVM segment. Reflexis : On September 1, 2020, the Company acquired Reflexis Systems, Inc. (Reflexis) for $547 million in cash, net of cash acquired. Reflexis is a provider of task and workforce management, execution, and communication solutions for customers in the retail, food service, hospitality, and banking industries. Through this acquisition, the Company intends to enhance its solution offerings to customers in those industries by combining Reflexis platform with its existing software solutions and EVM products. The operating results of Reflexis are included within the EVM segment. Cortexica: On November 5, 2019, the Company acquired Cortexica Vision Systems Limited (Cortexica) for $7 million in cash. Cortexica is a provider of computer vision-based artificial intelligence solutions primarily serving the retail industry. The operating results of Cortexica are included within the EVM segment. Profitect: On May 31, 2019, the Company acquired Profitect, Inc. (Profitect) for total purchase consideration of $79 million, which consisted of $75 million in cash paid, net of cash acquired, and the fair value of the Companys existing minority ownership interest in Profitect of $4 million, as remeasured upon acquisition. Profitect is a provider of prescriptive analytics primarily serving the retail industry. Through this acquisition, the Company intends to enhance its solution offerings to customers in the retail industry by combining Profitects platform with its existing software solutions and EVM products. The operating results of Profitect are included within the EVM segment. Temptime: On February 21, 2019, the Company acquired Temptime Corporation (Temptime) for $180 million in cash, net of cash acquired. Temptime is a developer and manufacturer of temperature-monitoring labels and devices. Through this 28 Table of Contents acquisition, the Company expanded its product offerings within the healthcare industry, with possible future applications in other industries involving temperature-sensitive products. The operating results of Temptime are included within the AIT segment. Restructuring Programs In the fourth quarter of 2021, the Company committed to organizational design changes intended to better meet its strategic objectives and improve cost efficiency (referred to as the 2021 Productivity Plan), principally within the EMEA and North America regions. Exit and restructuring charges associated with the 2021 Productivity Plan, which primarily related to employee benefits and severance, were $7 million during the year ended December 31, 2021. Estimated remaining costs under the 2021 Productivity Plan, which is expected to be completed by 2022, are expected to be up to $3 million. In the fourth quarter of 2019, the Company committed to certain organizational changes designed to generate operational efficiencies (referred to as the 2019 Productivity Plan), principally in the North America and EMEA regions. The 2019 Productivity Plan was completed in 2020. Exit and restructuring charges associated with the 2019 Productivity Plan, which primarily related to employee severance and benefits, were $11 million and $8 million during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Product Sourcing Diversification Initiative In 2020, the Company completed its initiative to diversify its product sourcing footprint to include sourcing products from Taiwan, Vietnam, and Malaysia, thereby reducing its reliance on Chinese-based manufacturing and the impacts of related customs duties (tariffs) on U.S imports from China. In conjunction with this initiative, the Company incurred total one-time costs of $23 million, including $18 million and $5 million during the years ended December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively, which are primarily reflected within Operating expenses on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company also made $8 million of incremental equipment purchases during the year ended December 31, 2020. 29 Table of Contents Results of Operations: Year Ended 2021 versus 2020 and Year Ended 2020 versus 2019 Consolidated Results of Operations (amounts in millions, except percentages) Year Ended December 31, Percent Change 2021 vs 2020 Percent Change 2020 vs 2019 2021 2020 2019 Net sales: Tangible products $ 4,845 $ 3,813 $ 3,907 27.1 % (2.4) % Services and software 782 635 578 23.1 % 9.9 % Total Net sales 5,627 4,448 4,485 26.5 % (0.8) % Gross profit 2,628 2,003 2,100 31.2 % (4.6) % Gross margin 46.7 % 45.0 % 46.8 % 170 bps (180) bps Operating expenses 1,649 1,352 1,408 22.0 % (4.0) % Operating income $ 979 $ 651 $ 692 50.4 % (5.9) % Net sales to customers by geographic region were as follows (amounts in millions, except percentages): Year Ended December 31, Percent Change 2021 vs 2020 Percent Change 2020 vs 2019 2021 2020 2019 North America $ 2,819 $ 2,319 $ 2,261 21.6 % 2.6 % EMEA 1,976 1,495 1,462 32.2 % 2.3 % Asia-Pacific 543 439 518 23.7 % (15.3) % Latin America 289 195 244 48.2 % (20.1) % Total Net sales $ 5,627 $ 4,448 $ 4,485 26.5 % (0.8) % Operating expenses are summarized below (amounts in millions, except percentages): Year Ended December 31, As a Percentage of Net sales 2021 2020 2019 2021 2020 2019 Selling and marketing $ 587 $ 483 $ 503 10.4 % 10.9 % 11.2 % Research and development 567 453 447 10.1 % 10.2 % 10.0 % General and administrative 348 304 323 6.2 % 6.8 % 7.2 % Amortization of intangible assets 115 78 103 NM NM NM Acquisition and integration costs 25 23 22 NM NM NM Exit and restructuring costs 7 11 10 NM NM NM Total Operating expenses $ 1,649 $ 1,352 $ 1,408 29.3 % 30.4 % 31.4 % Consolidated Organic Net sales growth: Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 Reported GAAP Consolidated Net sales growth 26.5 % (0.8) % Adjustments: Impact of foreign currency translations (1) (2.1) % 0.6 % Impact of acquisitions (2) (1.2) % (0.7) % Consolidated Organic Net sales growth (3) 23.2 % (0.9) % (1) Operating results reported in U.S. Dollars are affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Foreign currency translation impact represents the difference in results that are attributable to fluctuations in the currency exchange rates used to convert the results for businesses where the functional currency is not the U.S. Dollar. This impact is calculated by translating the current period results at the currency exchange rates used in the comparable prior year period, inclusive of the Companys foreign currency hedging program. 30 Table of Contents (2) For purposes of computing Organic Net sales growth, amounts directly attributable to business acquisitions are excluded for twelve months following their respective acquisitions. (3) Consolidated Organic Net sales growth is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Measures section at the end of this item. 2021 compared to 2020 Total Net sales increased $1,179 million or 26.5% compared to the prior year primarily due to broad-based customer demand to digitize and automate their businesses. Net sales growth across both of our segments and all of our regions included pent-up demand from customers who we believe had delayed purchases in fiscal 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, Net sales for the prior year included the negative impacts of supply chain disruptions within our EVM segment resulting from the temporary closure of a key distribution center supplying the Americas late in the first quarter. Excluding the effects of favorable currency changes and acquisitions, the increase in Consolidated Organic Net sales was 23.2%. Gross margin increased to 46.7% for the current year compared to 45.0% in the prior year. Gross margins were higher than the prior year primarily due to favorable business mix and volume leverage, higher support service margins, favorable currency changes, the mitigation of Chinese import tariffs as of the fourth quarter of 2020, partial recovery of Chinese import tariffs in the current year, and contributions from our recent higher margin EVM acquisitions. These benefits were partially offset by higher premium freight costs. Operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 were $1,649 million and $1,352 million, or 29.3% and 30.4% of Net sales, respectively. The increase in Operating expenses over the prior year was primarily due to higher employee compensation costs associated with higher incentive-based compensation related to improved financial performance in the current year, as well as prior year temporary salary reductions that began late in the second quarter; the inclusion of operating expenses and amortization of intangible assets associated with recently acquired businesses; and increased investment in research and development program projects, principally within our EVM segment. The prior year included costs associated with the diversification of the Companys product sourcing footprint. Operating income was $979 million for the current year compared to $651 million for the prior year. The increase was due to higher Gross profit, which was partially offset by higher Operating expenses. Net income increased 66.1% compared to the prior year due to higher Operating income and favorability in Other expenses, net, partially offset by higher income tax expense detailed as follows: Other expenses, net was $11 million for the current year, compared to $91 million in the prior year primarily due to lower interest expense and lower foreign exchange losses in the current year. The current year interest expense benefited from a $13 million gain on interest rate swaps compared to a $46 million loss in the prior year, lower average outstanding debt levels, and lower interest rates. The Companys effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020 were 13.5% and 10.0%, respectively. The increase in the effective tax rate compared to the prior year was primarily due to increases in pre-tax income in jurisdictions with higher tax rates, partially offset by a higher foreign-derived intangible income deduction, higher share-based compensation deductions, and the benefit of the enacted U.K. corporate tax rate increase from 19% to 25% on the Companys deferred tax assets. Diluted earnings per share increased to $15.52 as compared to $9.35 in the prior year primarily due to higher Net income. Results of Operations by Segment The following commentary should be read in conjunction with the financial results of each operating business segment as detailed in Note 20, Segment Information & Geographic Data in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. To the extent applicable, segment results exclude purchase accounting adjustments, amortization of intangible assets, acquisition and integration costs, impairment of goodwill and other intangibles, exit and restructuring costs, and product sourcing diversification costs. 31 Table of Contents Asset Intelligence & Tracking Segment (AIT) (amounts in millions, except percentages) Year Ended December 31, Percent Change 2021 vs 2020 Percent Change 2020 vs 2019 2021 2020 2019 Net sales: Tangible products $ 1,577 $ 1,298 $ 1,347 21.5 % (3.6) % Services and software 110 94 100 17.0 % (6.0) % Total Net sales 1,687 1,392 1,447 21.2 % (3.8) % Gross profit 769 658 720 16.9 % (8.6) % Gross margin 45.6 % 47.3 % 49.8 % (170) bps (250) bps Operating expenses 395 340 369 16.2 % (7.9) % Operating income $ 374 $ 318 $ 351 17.6 % (9.4) % AIT Organic Net sales growth: December 31, 2021 2020 AIT Reported GAAP Net sales growth 21.2 % (3.8) % Adjustments: Impact of foreign currency translations (1) (1.9) % 0.4 % Impact of acquisition (2) % (0.5) % AIT Organic Net sales growth (3) 19.3 % (3.9) % (1) Operating results reported in U.S. Dollars are affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Foreign currency translation impact represents the difference in results that are attributable to fluctuations in the currency exchange rates used to convert the results for businesses where the functional currency is not the U.S. Dollar. This impact is calculated by translating the current period results at the currency exchange rates used in the comparable prior year period, inclusive of the Companys foreign currency hedging program. (2) For purposes of computing AIT Organic Net sales growth, amounts directly attributable to the Temptime acquisition are excluded for twelve months following its acquisition date. (3) AIT Organic Net sales growth is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Measures section at the end of this item. 2021 compared to 2020 Total Net sales for AIT increased $295 million or 21.2% compared to the prior year primarily due to higher sales of printing products (contributing the vast majority of the total increase) and supplies reflecting broad-based customer demand across all of our regions, inclusive of pent-up demand from customers who we believe had delayed purchases in fiscal 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as favorable currency changes. Excluding the impact of foreign currency changes, AIT Organic Net sales growth was 19.3%. Gross margin decreased to 45.6% in the current year compared to 47.3% for the prior year, primarily due to higher premium freight costs, partially offset by favorable business mix and volume leverage, favorable currency changes, partial recovery of Chinese import tariffs in the current year, and the mitigation of Chinese import tariffs as of the fourth quarter of 2020. Operating income increased 17.6% in the current year compared to the prior year. The increase was due to higher Gross profit, which was partially offset by higher Operating expenses. 32 Table of Contents Enterprise Visibility & Mobility Segment (EVM) (amounts in millions, except percentages) Year Ended December 31, Percent Change 2021 vs 2020 Percent Change 2020 vs 2019 2021 2020 2019 Net sales: Tangible products $ 3,268 $ 2,515 $ 2,560 29.9 % (1.8) % Services and software 678 548 478 23.7 % 14.6 % Total Net sales 3,946 3,063 3,038 28.8 % 0.8 % Gross profit 1,865 1,358 1,387 37.3 % (2.1) % Gross margin 47.3 % 44.3 % 45.7 % 300 bps (140) bps Operating expenses 1,107 888 900 24.7 % (1.3) % Operating income $ 758 $ 470 $ 487 61.3 % (3.5) % EVM Organic Net sales growth: December 31, 2021 2020 EVM Reported GAAP Net sales growth 28.8 % 0.8 % Adjustments: Impact of foreign currency translations (1) (1.9) % 0.7 % Impact of acquisitions (2) (1.9) % (1.0) % EVM Organic Net sales growth (3) 25.0 % 0.5 % (1) Operating results reported in U.S. Dollars are affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Foreign currency translation impact represents the difference in results that are attributable to fluctuations in the currency exchange rates used to convert the results for businesses where the functional currency is not the U.S. Dollar. This impact is calculated by translating the current period results at the currency exchange rates used in the comparable prior year period, inclusive of the Companys foreign currency hedging program. (2) For purposes of computing EVM Organic Net sales growth, amounts directly attributable to the acquisitions of Antuit, Fetch, Adaptive Vision, Reflexis, Cortexica, and Profitect are excluded for twelve months following their respective acquisitions. (3) EVM Organic Net sales growth is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Measures section at the end of this item. 2021 compared to 2020 Total Net sales for EVM increased $883 million or 28.8% compared to the prior year primarily due to broad-based customer demand resulting in higher sales of mobile computing products (contributing the vast majority of the total increase) and support services across all regions, as well as higher sales of data capture products across most regions. In addition, our recent acquisitions contributed to the growth of Services and software sales in the current year. Excluding the impacts of foreign currency changes and acquisitions, EVM Organic Net sales growth was 25.0%. Gross margin increased to 47.3% in the current year compared to 44.3% in the prior year, primarily due to favorable business mix and volume leverage, higher support service margins, favorable currency changes, the mitigation of Chinese import tariffs as of the fourth quarter of 2020, and contributions from our higher margin acquisitions. These benefits were partially offset by higher premium freight costs. Operating income for the current year increased 61.3% compared to the prior year period. The increase was due to higher Gross profit, which was partially offset by higher Operating expenses. 33 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources The primary factors that influence our liquidity include the amount and timing of our revenues, cash collections from our customers, cash payments to our suppliers, capital expenditures, repatriation of foreign cash, acquisitions, and share repurchases. Management believes that our existing capital resources, inclusive of available borrowing capacity on debt and other financing facilities and funds generated from operations, are sufficient to meet anticipated capital requirements and service our indebtedness. The following table summarizes our cash flow activities for the years indicated (in millions): Year Ended December 31, $ Change 2021 vs 2020 $ Change 2020 vs 2019 2021 2020 2019 Cash flow provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 1,069 $ 962 $ 685 $ 107 $ 277 Investing activities (546) (641) (335) 95 (306) Financing activities (371) (157) (365) (214) 208 Effect of exchange rates on cash balances (2) 1 2 (3) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents, including restricted cash $ 152 $ 162 $ (14) $ (10) $ 176 2021 vs. 2020 The change in our cash and cash equivalents balance during the current year is reflective of the following: The increase in cash provided by operating activities compared to the prior year was primarily due to higher operating income, lower inventory levels, and lower employee incentive compensation payments. These benefits were partially offset by higher accounts receivable balances reflecting the timing of customer transactions within the period, higher income tax payments, as well as reduced benefits from our accounts receivable factoring programs. The decrease in cash used in investing activities compared to the prior year was primarily due to lower cash paid for acquisitions. The current year includes cash payments for the acquisitions of Antuit, Fetch, and Adaptive Vision, whereas the prior year includes a cash payment for the acquisition of Reflexis. The increase in net cash used in financing activities during the current year was primarily due to higher net debt repayments, as well as higher payments related to share-based compensation plans in the current year, which were partially offset by lower share repurchases. The prior year included a net source of cash associated with the timing of factored receivables servicing activities. Company Debt The following table shows the carrying value of the Companys debt (in millions): December 31, 2021 2020 Term Loan A $ 888 $ 917 2020 Term Loan 100 Receivables Financing Facilities 108 235 Total debt $ 996 $ 1,252 Less: Debt issuance costs (3) (5) Less: Unamortized discounts (2) (2) Less: Current portion of debt (69) (364) Total long-term debt $ 922 $ 881 Term Loan A The principal on Term Loan A is due in quarterly installments, with the next quarterly installment due in March 2022 and the majority due upon the August 9, 2024 maturity date. The Company may make prepayments, in whole or in part, without premium or penalty, and would be required to prepay certain outstanding amounts in the event of certain circumstances or transactions. As of December 31, 2021, the Term Loan A interest rate was 1.35%. Interest payments are made monthly and are subject to variable rates plus an applicable margin. 2020 Term Loan 34 Table of Contents In September 2020, the Company entered into a new $200 million term loan (2020 Term Loan), with the proceeds used to partly fund the acquisition of Reflexis. The Company repaid $100 million of principal during the fourth quarter of 2020 and the remaining $100 million of principal in the first quarter of 2021. Receivables Financing Facilities The Company has two Receivables Financing Facilities with financial institutions that have a combined total borrowing limit of up to $280 million. As collateral, the Company pledges perfected first-priority security interests in its U.S. domestically originated accounts receivable. The Company has accounted for transactions under its Receivables Financing Facilities as secured borrowings. The Companys first Receivables Financing Facility allows for borrowings of up to $180 million and matures on March 19, 2024. The Companys second Receivable Financing Facility allows for borrowings of up to $100 million and matures on May 16, 2022. As of December 31, 2021, the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets included $643 million of receivables that were pledged under the two Receivables Financing Facilities. As of December 31, 2021, $108 million had been borrowed, of which $13 million was classified as current. Borrowings under the Receivables Financing Facilities bear interest at a variable rate plus an applicable margin. As of December 31, 2021, the Receivables Financing Facilities had an average interest rate of 0.99%. Interest is paid on these borrowings on a monthly basis. Revolving Credit Facility The Company has a Revolving Credit Facility that is available for working capital and other general business purposes, including letters of credit. As of December 31, 2021, the Company had letters of credit totaling $7 million, which reduced funds available for borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility from $1 billion to $993 million. No borrowings were outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility as of December 31, 2021 or December 31, 2020. See Note 12, Long-Term Debt in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to the Companys debt instruments. Receivables Factoring The Company currently has two Receivables Factoring arrangements, pursuant to which certain receivables are sold to banks without recourse in exchange for cash. One arrangement allows for the factoring of up to $25 million of uncollected receivables originated from the EMEA region. The second arrangement allows for the factoring of up to 150 million of uncollected receivables originated from the EMEA and Asia-Pacific regions. Transactions under the Receivables Factoring arrangements are accounted for as sales under Accounting Standards Codification 860, Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets , with the sold receivables removed from the Companys balance sheet. Under these Receivables Factoring arrangements, the Company does not maintain any beneficial interest in the receivables sold. The banks purchase of eligible receivables is subject to a maximum amount of uncollected receivables. The Company services the receivables on behalf of the banks, but otherwise maintains no significant continuing involvement with respect to the receivables. Sale proceeds that are representative of the fair value of factored receivables, less a factoring fee, are reflected in Net cash provided by operating activities on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, while sale proceeds in excess of the fair value of factored receivables are reflected in Net cash used in financing activities on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. As of December 31, 2021 and 2020 there were a total of $24 million and $70 million, respectively, of uncollected receivables that had been sold and removed from the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets. As servicer of sold receivables, the Company had $141 million and $142 million of obligations that were not yet remitted to banks as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. These obligations are included within Accrued liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, with changes in such obligations reflected within Net cash used in financing activities on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. See Note 19, Accounts Receivable Factoring in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. Share Repurchases On July 30, 2019, the Company announced that its Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program for up to an aggregate amount of $1 billion of its outstanding shares of common stock. The share repurchase program does not have a stated expiration date. The level of the Companys repurchases depends on a number of factors, including its financial condition, capital requirements, cash flows, results of operations, future business prospects and other factors its management may deem relevant. The timing, volume, and nature of repurchases are subject to market conditions, applicable securities laws and other factors and may be amended, suspended or discontinued at any time. Repurchases may be effected from time to time through open market purchases, including pursuant to a pre-set trading plan meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5-1(c) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company repurchased 109,115 shares of 35 Table of Contents common stock for $57 million. Comparatively, during the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company repurchased 948,740 shares of common stock for $200 million. As of December 31, 2021, approximately $696 million of common stock remained authorized for repurchase under the program. Subsequent to year end, the Company has repurchased 339,142 shares of common stock for $173 million through February 3, 2022. Future Cash Requirements We believe that our cash and cash equivalents, which totaled $332 million as of December 31, 2021, along with anticipated cash generation from operations and available borrowing capacity on debt and other financing facilities, will be sufficient to fund the Companys cash requirements during the next 12 months and thereafter based on our current business plans. Included in the Companys Cash and cash equivalents are amounts held by foreign subsidiaries, which was $39 million and $37 million as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. We do not expect that Cash and cash equivalents held by foreign subsidiaries will need to be repatriated in order to fund the Companys U.S. operations based on current cash requirements. Our cash requirements during the next 12 months and thereafter include payments to satisfy the following obligations: Purchase obligations We generally procure inventories and other goods and services through purchase orders at levels to satisfy our operational needs for 12 months or less. We have a limited number of multi-year inventory and service-related purchase commitments which contain minimum purchase requirements and are non-cancellable. As of December 31, 2021, these commitments were approximately $360 million relating to the next five years, excluding amounts already reflected within Accounts payable or Accrued expenses on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. See Note 14, Accrued Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details. Debt obligations We expect to make total payments of approximately $101 million associated with the Companys debt facilities in 2022. This expected use of cash is based on the Companys current borrowings and applicable interest rates and margins as of December 31, 2021, and includes principal and interest payments along with expected cash settlements associated with the Companys interest rate swaps. In the ordinary course of business, the Company may decide to borrow additional amounts or repay principal earlier than contractually owed, which would affect future cash payments. See Note 12, Long-Term Debt in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to the Companys debt facilities. Leases obligations We lease certain manufacturing facilities, distribution centers, sales and administrative offices, equipment, and vehicles. As of December 31, 2021, the Companys fixed lease commitments totaled $215 million, of which $47 million is payable in 2022. See Note 13, Leases in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to the Companys lease arrangements. In addition to the expected cash requirements described above, the Company may use cash to fund strategic acquisitions, investments, or repurchase common stock under its share repurchase program. We also expect to spend approximately $65 million to $75 million on capital expenditures in 2022. Critical Accounting Estimates Management prepared the consolidated financial statements of the Company under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. The application of these principles requires the use of estimates which affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements. While we believe that our estimates are reasonable based upon available information, actual results may substantially differ from those estimates. Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements provides additional discussion of these items along with other significant accounting policies of the Company. The accounting estimates described below have been identified by Management as those that are most critical to our financial statements, as they require management to make significant judgments and assumptions about inherently uncertain and complex matters. 36 Table of Contents Income Taxes We estimate a provision or benefit for income taxes and amounts to be settled or recovered in several tax jurisdictions globally. Our estimates are complex and involve significant judgments and interpretations of regulations. Resolution of income tax treatments in individual jurisdictions may not be known for several years after completion of a given year. We are also required to evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets on an ongoing basis, which requires estimation of our ability to generate future taxable income. In particular, our income tax provision or benefit is dependent on our ability to forecast future taxable income in the U.S., U.K., Singapore, and other jurisdictions. Significant judgments included in our forecasts include projecting future sales volumes and pricing, costs to manufacture and procure products and to deliver services and solutions, among other factors. There were no significant changes in estimates to our income tax provision during the current year. Acquisitions We account for acquired businesses using the acquisition method of accounting. This method requires that the purchase price be allocated to the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their estimated fair values. The excess of the purchase price over the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recorded as goodwill. The estimates used to determine the fair values of long-lived intangible assets can be complex and require judgment. We generally value intangible assets using income-based valuation methodologies, such as the excess earnings method, which require a number of critical estimates that include, but are not limited to, future expected cash flows from revenues and operating activities, and the determination of discount rates. Goodwill Impairment Goodwill impairment testing consists of comparing the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units to its carrying value. Fair value determinations require judgment and are sensitive to changes in underlying assumptions, estimates, as well as market factors. We estimate the fair value of reporting units using both income and market-based valuation approaches. The income approach requires management to estimate a number of factors for each reporting unit, including projected future operating results and cash flows, and the determination of discount rates. The market approach estimates fair value using comparable marketplace fair value data from a comparable industry group. Estimating the fair value of reporting units also requires that we make a number of assumptions and estimates regarding our long-term growth and cash flow expectations, as well as overall industry and economic conditions. These estimates and assumptions include, but are not limited to, projections of revenue and income growth rates, capital investments, competitive and customer trends, appropriate peer group selection, market-based discount rates and other market factors. Our annual quantitative impairment test, most recently completed in the fourth quarter of 2021, continues to indicate that the fair values of each of our reporting units significantly exceed their respective carrying values. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenues when we transfer control of promised goods, solutions or services to our customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive. The consideration that we expect to receive is estimated by reflecting reductions to our transaction price for product returns, rebates, and other incentives. These estimates are developed using the expected value that the Company anticipates receiving and are based on recent trends observed in similar transactions. Additionally, many of our contracts with customers contain multiple performance obligations, including various hardware, software, and/or services. For such contracts that contain multiple performance obligations, we allocate the estimated total transaction price to each performance obligation based on relative standalone selling prices (SSP). The determination of SSP is established at a regional level. SSP is based on observable prices in recent standalone transactions for the same or similar offerings, to the extent available, which is often applicable to tangible products and software licenses. Alternatively, in the absence of recent observable prices, the Company generally applies the expected cost-plus margin approach to professional services, repair and maintenance services, and solution offerings. There were no changes to our estimation processes for consideration received or SSP that materially affected revenues during the year. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements regarding recent accounting pronouncements. Non-GAAP Measures The Company has provided reconciliations of the supplemental non-GAAP financial measures, as defined under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, presented herein to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. These supplemental non-GAAP financial measures Consolidated Organic Net sales growth, AIT Organic Net sales growth, and EVM Organic Net sales growth are presented because our management evaluates our financial results both including and 37 Table of Contents excluding the effects of business acquisitions and foreign currency translation, as applicable. Management believes that the supplemental non-GAAP financial measures presented provide additional perspective and insights when analyzing the core operating performance of our business from period to period and trends in our historical operating results. These supplemental non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered superior to, as a substitute for, or as an alternative to, and should be considered in conjunction with the GAAP financial measures presented. 38 Table of Contents