management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. Consequently, the remainder of this business description describes Zebras business consistent with our historical financial statements, including a business description of our SPG and ZES segments, while including comments to reflect the proposed sale of the Navis business entity, including MTS. Zebra Specialty Printing Group (SPG) We design our printer products to operate at the point of issuance to produce high-quality labels, tickets, receipts, and plastic cards on demand. The exceptional diversity of applications using our printer products for barcoding and personal identification includes routing and tracking, patient safety, transaction processing, and identification and authentication. These applications require high levels of data accuracy, where speed, reliability and durability are critical. They also include specialty printing for receipts and tickets where improved customer service and productivity gains may be the primary reason for using our on demand receipt printers. Plastic cards are used for secure, reliable personal identification, access control and financial cards (credit, debit and ATM cards) by financial institutions. Applications for our printing technology span most industries and geographies. They include inventory control, small package delivery, baggage handling, automated warehousing, JIT (Just-In-Time) manufacturing, employee time and attendance records, file management systems, patient barcode wrist banding, medical specimen labeling, shop floor control, in-store product labeling, employee ID cards, drivers licenses, and access control systems. As of December 31, 2010, management estimates that Zebra has sold more than 9,400,000 printers to customers around the world. We believe competitive forces on businesses worldwide to strengthen security, reduce costs, more effectively manage assets, improve quality, deliver better customer service, and increase productivity support the adoption of the printing and automatic identification applications that Zebra provides because these solutions deliver significant and predictable economic benefits. Industry-mandated compliance requirements for bar code labeling and RFID tagging are also important catalysts in the deployment of these systems. Many of Zebras applications enhance the use of enterprise resource planning (ERP) and other process improvement systems in manufacturing and service organizations. Greater emphasis on supply chain management, the drive to reduce errors in healthcare, and heightened concern over safety and security are also increasing the use of automatic identification systems. Still other applications are taking advantage of recent advances in wireless and hand-held computing technologies. Concern for safety and security and personal identification contribute to demand for our card printer products. This concern has heightened interest in systems that provide personal identification and access control, including secure ID systems for drivers licenses, employee and visitor badges, national identification cards, event passes, club membership cards and keyless entry systems. Financial institutions utilize card printers for credit, debit and ATM cards. 5 Table of Contents Our printers are used to print bar code labels, receipts, plastic identification cards, wristbands, and tags and to encode passive RFID smart labels and cards. We also sell related specialty labeling materials, thermal ink ribbons, and bar code label design and network management software. These products are used to support bar code labeling, personal identification, and specialty printing solutions principally in the manufacturing supply chain, retail, healthcare and government sectors of the economy. We work closely with distributors, value-added resellers, kiosk manufacturers and end users of our products to design and implement printing solutions that meet their technical demands. To achieve this flexibility, we provide our customers with a broad selection of printer models, each of which can be configured for a specific application. Additionally, we will select and, if necessary, create appropriate labeling stock, ink ribbons and adhesives to suit a particular application. In-house engineering personnel in software, mechanical, electronic and chemical engineering participate in the creation and development of printing solutions for particular applications. We produce the industrys broadest range of rugged, on-demand thermal transfer and direct thermal printers. Our printing systems include hundreds of optional configurations that can be selected to meet particular customer needs. We believe this breadth of product offering is a unique and significant competitive strength, because it allows Zebra to satisfy the widest variety of thermal printing applications and leverage our brand and reputation as customers install new systems that require on demand printing. Of the major printing technologies, which include ink jet, laser and impact dot matrix, we believe that direct thermal and thermal transfer technologies are best suited for most bar code labeling and other on-demand printing applications. Thermal transfer printing produces durable dark, solid blacks and sharply defined lines that are important for printing readily scannable bar codes. These images can be printed on a wide variety of labeling materials, which enable users to affix bar code labels to virtually any object. This capability is very important in the industrial and service sectors Zebra serves. Direct thermal printing is best suited where ease of use, smaller size and cost are important factors in the application. Accordingly, this technology is found principally in Zebras mobile and desktop units. As of December 31, 2010, we offered 54 thermal printer models with numerous variations, in eight categories as follows: Performance tabletop printers for applications requiring continuous operation in high output, mission-critical and industrial settings. Mid-range tabletop printers, which are designed for demanding commercial applications. Desktop printers to deliver value and performance in applications with lower volume or space restrictions. Mobile printers to meet the printing needs of workers in the field. Print engines, which are sold to manufacturers and integrators of high-speed automatic label applicator systems and are available with or without RFID smart label capabilities. Kiosk and ticket printers for use in kiosks and other unattended printing applications. Card printers, which print and encode national identity cards, drivers licenses, employee identification badges, gift cards, personalized cards and financial cards (credit, debit and ATM cards). RFID printer/encoders for passive high frequency and ultra-high frequency radio frequency identification in the retail supply chain, for defense logistics, and other applications. These units are used to print and encode smart labels in a single pass. Smart labels are printable labels embedded with an ultra-thin radio frequency transponder. Information encoded in these transponders can then be read and modified by a radio frequency reader. In addition to their use in on-demand automatic identification applications, our thermal printers can also be used for on-site batch production of custom bar code labels and other graphics. This capability results in shorter lead times, reduced inventory, and more flexibility than can be provided with traditional off-site printing. Printer Supplies Supplies products consist of stock and customized thermal labels, wristbands, plastic cards, card laminates and thermal transfer ribbons. Zebra promotes the use of genuine Zebra brand supplies with its printing equipment. Zebra fully supports its printers, resellers and end users with an extensive line of superior quality, high-performance supplies optimized to a particular users needs. Supplies are chosen in consultation with the reseller and end user based on the specific application, printer and environment in which the labeling system must perform. These printing solutions frequently include proprietary ribbon and label formulations that are designed to optimize image resolution and printer performance while meeting the most demanding end user application performance criteria. Factors such as adhesion, resistance to scratches, smudges and abrasion, and chemical and environmental exposures are all taken into account when selecting the type of ribbon and labeling materials. The use of supplies that are not carefully matched to specific printers can degrade image quality, and decrease the part life of key printer components such as printheads. 6 Table of Contents Printer Related Software Zebra has specialized printer management, label design and driver solutions to help unlock the full potential of Zebra printers. The ZebraLink Solutions suite of networking, software, firmware offerings, combined with the enhanced printer management capabilities of ZebraNet Bridge, makes Zebras printers easy to use and integrate into small, medium and enterprise-wide environments. Our goal is to provide software that enables high levels of functionality to all major computer network and software systems. Network systems include Ethernet, 802.11b/g and Bluetooth . Zebra offers label design and integration software specifically designed to optimize the performance of Zebra bar code label printers. Zebras suite of label design and printer configuration tools includes ZebraDesigner, ZebraDesigner Pro, ZebraDesigner for XML, and ZebraDesigner Label Design Software for use with mySAP Business Suite. Zebras Enterprise Connector Solution for Oracle Business Intelligence Publisher, delivers seamless integration between Oracle and Zebra printers, creating a versatile, easily managed, cost-effective printing platform. Printer Maintenance and Services Zebra provides depot maintenance and repair services at repair centers in Vernon Hills, Illinois; Etobicoke, Ontario, Canada; Mexico City, Mexico; Preston, U.K.; Singapore; Shanghai, China; and Heerenveen, Netherlands. Zebra Authorized Service Providers (ZASP) also provide repair services for most Zebra products at their locations. In addition, Zebra offers on-site repair services for tabletop printers in the United States. Outside of the United States, Zebras resellers may provide maintenance service, either directly as ZASPs or through independent service agents. Zebra also provides technical support from in-house support personnel located in the United States, the United Kingdom and Singapore. For most Zebra products, Zebra provides interactive technical support via the Internet at www.zebra.com , 24 hours per day, seven days per week. Printer Warranties In general, Zebra provides warranty coverage of one year on printers against defects in material and workmanship. Printheads are warranted for nine months, and batteries are warranted for twelve months. Zebra supplies are warranted against defects in material and workmanship for their stated shelf life or twelve months, whichever ends first. Defective equipment and supplies may be returned for repair or replacement during the applicable warranty periods. Zebras Printer Technology Our customers rely on Zebra to provide products and systems to help identify, authenticate, track or route both items and people, and then process the related transactions. These products and systems use technologies that provide specific benefits in each application. All Zebra printers and print engines incorporate thermal printing technology, either direct thermal printing, thermal transfer printing or dye-sublimation printing. This technology creates an image by heating certain pixels of an electrical printhead to selectively image a ribbon or heat-sensitive substrate. Direct thermal printers apply the heat directly to a thermally-sensitive label, wristband, or receipt to create an image. This form of thermal printing technology benefits applications requiring simple and reliable operations such as shelf labeling, patient identification, and kiosk receipts. Some desktop label printers, mobile printers and kiosk printers support only direct thermal printing. Thermal transfer printers apply heat to a ribbon to release ink onto labels or tags. This form of thermal printing technology allows a wider range of specialty label materials and associated inks to be used for applications such as circuit board labels, chemical identification and product labels that require resistance to chemicals, temperature extremes, abrasion, or labels requiring a long shelf life. Most of our printers in our high performance, midrange, print engine, desktop and mobile categories use thermal transfer printing but can also support direct thermal printing. Dye-sublimation card printers apply heat to a ribbon to release a dye that is absorbed into a plastic card, retransfer film or treated paper. This process creates full-color, photographic quality images that are well-suited for drivers licenses, access and identification cards, transaction cards, on-demand photographs, and financial cards (credit, debit and ATM cards). 7 Table of Contents Direct thermal and thermal transfer printers create crisp images at high speeds, making them ideal for printing easily readable text and machine readable bar codes. Dye sublimation thermal printers quickly create full-color images with visual characteristics more similar to halide-based film than to pixel-based ink jet or laser printers, making them ideal for high quality photographs and personalized plastic cards. Some printers also include HF (13.56 MHz) or UHF (860-960 MHz) RFID technology that can encode data into passive RFID transponders embedded in a label, card, or wristband. Zebras printers integrate company-designed mechanisms, electrical systems, and firmware. Enclosures of metal or high-impact plastic ensure the durability of our printers. Special mechanisms optimize handling of labels, ribbons, and plastic cards. Fast, high-current electrical systems provide consistent image quality. Mobile printers use NiMH or LiIon batteries to optimize print quality over an extended operating shift. Firmware supports serial, parallel, Ethernet, USB, infrared, Bluetooth, or 802.11b/g wireless communications with appropriate security protocols. Printing instructions can be received as a proprietary language such as Zebra Programming Language II (ZPL II ), as a print driver-provided image, or as user-defined XML. These features make our printers easy to integrate into virtually all common computer systems including those operating on UNIX, Linux, MS/DOS , or Microsoft Windows operating systems. Some independent software vendors, including Adobe, Oracle and SAP, have included Zebra printing support in applications for healthcare, warehouse management, manufacturing, passenger transportation, and retailing. Printer Sales and Marketing Sales. We sell our printer products primarily through distributors, value-added resellers (VARs), and original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). We also sell our printer products directly to a select number of named customer accounts. For media and consumables, we also sell directly to end users through the Internet and telesales operations. Distributors and VARs purchase, stock and sell a variety of automatic identification components from different manufacturers and customize systems for end-user applications using their systems and application integration expertise. Because these sales channels provide specific software, configuration, installation, integration and support services required by end users within various market segments, these relationships allow Zebra to reach end users throughout the world in a wide variety of industries. Zebra experiences a minor amount of seasonality in sales, depending on the geographic region and industry served. We functionally classify our direct VARs as Premier Partners, Advanced Partners, or Associate Partners, depending on their business competencies, depth and breadth of their sales teams, customer support capabilities, contributions to Zebras strategic goals and sales commitment to Zebra. In addition, we offer VARs the opportunity to earn certifications for mobile/wireless printers, supplies, services and RFID products in specific industries. We also sell through distributors, which in turn sell to an extended VAR community. All VARs, as well as OEMs and systems integrators, provide customers with a variety of automatic identification components including scanners, accessories, applications software and systems integration expertise, and, in the case of some OEMs, resell the Zebra-manufactured products under their own brands as part of their own product offering. We believe that the breadth of this indirect channel network, both in terms of variety and geographic scope, enhances our ability to compete and more effectively offer our solutions to a greater number of end users. In some instances, we have designated a customer as a strategic account when purchases of Zebra products reach specified levels and support requirements for the account become highly customized. Zebra sales personnel, either alone or together with our partners, manage these strategic accounts to ensure their needs are being met. The sales function also encompasses a group that manages a small number of global alliances. They direct the business development strategies for a limited number of third-party relationships that are strategic to new demand creation for specific vertical markets and/or specific applications. Marketing. Marketing operations encompass corporate marketing, marketing communications, product marketing, vertical marketing, solutions marketing, market research and channel marketing functions. Corporate marketing conducts activities to enhance the Zebra corporate brand, corporate public relations, internal corporate communications and our Web site. The product marketing group identifies, evaluates and recommends new product opportunities and manages product introductions, positioning and demand creation. Product marketing also focuses on strategic planning and market definition and analyzes Zebras competitive strengths and weaknesses. 8 Table of Contents Printer Production and Manufacturing We design our products to optimize product performance, quality, reliability, durability and versatility. These designs combine cost-efficient materials, sourcing and assembly methods with high standards of workmanship. In February 2008, we announced that final printer assembly would be transferred to a third-party manufacturer, Jabil Circuit, Inc. We completed the transition of transferring all printer lines to Jabil in 2010. This action has helped to reduce costs and optimize our global printer product supply chain and enabled us to be more responsive to customer needs and increase Zebras flexibility to meet emerging business opportunities. See Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of the transfer and transition process. Jabil produces our printers to our design specifications in the quantities we order. We maintain control over the supply chain including supplier selection and price negotiations of key component parts. Jabil is responsible for the procurement of the component parts and subassemblies used in the Zebra printers it produces. Zebra has a subsidiary located in Guangzhou, China, and has an office located near the Jabil facility in China where our products are assembled. This office is staffed with Zebra sourcing, engineering and quality personnel to help ensure that we receive optimal pricing on raw materials and the final printers meet our quality standards. The majority of Zebra printers manufactured by Jabil are shipped to Zebras regional distribution centers. A small percentage of products are reconfigured at Zebras distribution centers through firmware downloads, packaging and some other customization before they are shipped to customers. In addition, certain products are manufactured in accordance with federal procurement regulations and various international trade agreements, and remain eligible for sale to the United States government. Printer Competition Many companies are engaged in the design, manufacture and marketing of bar code label printers, RFID printer/encoder and card personalization solutions. We consider our direct competition in bar code label and receipt printing to be producers of on-demand thermal transfer and direct thermal label printing systems, printer/encoders, mobile printers and supplies. We also compete, however, with companies engaged in the design, manufacture and marketing of printing systems that use alternative technologies, such as ink-jet and laser printing. Many of these companies are substantially larger than Zebra. Dye sublimation, the technology used in our card printers, is only one of several commercially available types of processes used to personalize cards. We also compete with companies that produce identification cards using alternative technologies, which include ink-jet, thermal transfer, embossing, film-based systems, encoders, laser engraving and large-scale dye sublimation printers. These card personalization technologies offer viable alternatives to Zebras card printers and provide effective competition from a variety of companies, many of which are substantially larger than Zebra. In addition, service bureaus compete for end user business and provide an alternative to the purchase of our card printing equipment and supplies. Our ability to compete effectively depends on a number of factors. These factors include the reliability, quality and reputation of the manufacturer and its products; hardware and software innovations and specifications; breadth of product offerings; information systems connectivity; price; level of technical support; supplies and applications support offered by the manufacturer; available distribution channels; and financial resources to support new product design and innovation. We believe that Zebra presently competes favorably with respect to these factors. We face competition from many competitors, including the following (listed in alphabetical order): Argox; Avery Dennison; Boca Systems; Brother International; Canon; CIM; Citizen; Cognitive TPG; Custom; Danaher; Datacard; Datamax-ONeil, a unit of Dover Corporation; Dymo, a Newell Rubbermaid Company; Epson; Evolis; Fargo Electronics, a unit of HID Global; Godex; Hewlett-Packard; Hitachi; Intermec Inc.; Lexmark International; MagiCard; Matica; Microcom; Mitsubishi; NBS Technologies; Nisca; Oki Data; Olympus; Practical Automation; Printronix; Sato; Seiko Instruments; Song Woo Electronics; Sony; Star Micronics; Taiwan Semiconductor; Toshiba TEC; Victor Data Systems; Woosim; and Xerox. The supplies business is highly fragmented and competition is comprised of numerous competitors of various sizes depending on the geographic area. Alternative Printing Technologies We believe thermal printing will be the preferred label, card and receipt printer technology in Zebras target applications for the foreseeable future. Among the many advantages of direct thermal and thermal transfer printing is the ability to print high-resolution, durable images on a wide variety of label materials at relatively low costs and high speeds compared with alternative printing technologies. We view passive RFID smart label encoding and active RFID location systems as complementary technologies to bar coded printing, offering growth opportunities to Zebra as the technologies become more widely adopted. 9 Table of Contents If other technologies were to evolve or become available to Zebra, it is possible that those technologies would be incorporated into our products. Alternatively, if such technologies were to evolve or become available to our competitors, Zebras products may become obsolete. This obsolescence would have a significant negative effect on Zebras business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Therefore, we continually assess competitive and complementary methods of bar code printing and other means of automatic identification. Alternative print technologies assessed include ink jet, laser and direct marking. While we cannot be sure that new technology will not supplant thermal printing for labels, cards and receipts, we are not aware of any developing technology that offers the advantages of thermal printing for our targeted applications. We continually monitor and evaluate new RFID technologies, support their standards development, and rapidly adopt RFID into new Zebra products and systems as new markets and applications emerge. Zebra Enterprise Solutions Group (ZES) Zebra offers asset tracking and management solutions to optimize the flow of goods within the supply chain. Whether managing parts for lean manufacturing or tracking and managing vehicles through off-line processes during production, the automated asset tracking and management solutions from Zebra improve business processes. Utilizing the combined products offered by these businesses, Zebra provides greater asset visibility and business efficiency for the aerospace and defense, aviation, automotive, industrial manufacturing, maritime, petrochemical, and transportation and logistics industries. Customers within these industries benefit by increasing productivity, lowering operational costs, and improving safety and security throughout their logistics operations. As noted previously, Zebra has entered into an agreement to sell the Navis business and the WhereNet Marine Terminal Solution software product line. The sale is expected to close in the first quarter of 2011. Zebras asset tracking and management solutions business consists of the sale of software licenses and related services including maintenance, support and consulting services, and hardware including our proprietary real time asset management hardware. These products and services may be bundled and sold together to customers or sold separately. Software Licenses . We sell perpetual software licenses on both a fixed fee basis and for a fixed term. The amounts of the license fees are based primarily on the scope and functionality of the licenses purchased by the customer. The solutions we provide may also include third-party software. Hardware . We sell both proprietary real time asset management hardware and third-party hardware. Most of our hardware products provide electronic tagging of assets and real time information regarding the assets locations and telematics. We sell the hardware as part of an integrated solution and also replacement parts. Consulting Services . We provide consulting services for the planning and implementation of our solutions including initial installation and training. Our professional services team works with customers who are implementing our solutions for the first time, evaluating new technology automation solutions, integrating with third-party systems or upgrading to new platforms. Services are typically charged on a time and materials basis, although from time-to-time we may enter into fixed fee contracts. Maintenance and Support . We offer support to our customers 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year, usually for an annual fee, which entitles them to software upgrades and technical support. These products extend Zebras reach beyond passive RFID by employing technologically advanced hardware and software solutions to locate, track, manage and optimize high-value assets, equipment and people. We offer a wide range of scalable real time locating systems (RTLS) technologies used to generate accurate, on-demand information about the physical location and status of high-valued assets. Customers benefit by utilizing the choice or combination of asset tracking products that can be application matched based on ISO/IEC 24730-2, Cisco CCX Wi-Fi, precision global positioning systems (GPS), and ultra wideband (UWB) technologies. 10 Table of Contents Our selection of RTLS asset tracking product offerings includes battery-powered active RFID WhereTag tags, WhereCall button tags, precision WhereTrack products, and Ultra-Wideband products from our Dart family of tags. These asset tags enable organizations to access accurate, real-time information on the location and status of their assets both indoors and outdoors. In addition, we offer a selection of RTLS infrastructure products. These products receive tag transmissions and forward the information to the Visibility Server Software (a middleware application) which provides location calculations, database and system management functions and asset visibility. The flexible infrastructure supports large tag populations and coverage areas that can range from small to large. We offer a broad set of software development tools for integrating ZES hardware, middleware applications and software applications, with customer and third-party applications. Our middleware application, Visibility Server Software, provides software tools to design, configure, operate and troubleshoot our RTLS products. Visibility Server Software serves as the central repository for all of the real-time location and communication data captured by the ZES RTLS infrastructure. ZES sells its products and services into the following major industries: Airport Operations . Our Airport Visualizer provides integrated aviation solutions and helps to optimize motorized ground support equipment on the pavement immediately adjacent to an airport terminal area or hangers (commonly referred to as the apron). As of December 31, 2010, our Airport Visualizer solution helped to optimize the processes of approximately 3,600 airport ground service vehicles at over 20 leading airports. Distribution Operations . Our Yard Tracking and Management System (YTMS), is a yard planning, management and execution solution that leverages wireless location and communication technologies and configurable business rules to optimize yard operations and the systems with which they interface. Personnel Safety and Security . Designed to automate the detection of potential personnel safety risks, as well as improve the management of emergencies and evacuations, the Personnel Safety Solution provides real-time visibility into locating and tracking of valued assets both indoors and outdoors. Manufacturing Operations . We provide an integrated wireless infrastructure for real-time location, digital messaging, telemetry, and wireless networking applications to give manufacturers the ability to continuously manage the physical location and status of their critical assets for improving lean processes within the core manufacturing functions. These products and services are primarily sold through a global direct sales force which is organized around geographic and vertical markets. We complement our direct sales through the use of other channels including systems integrators with particular vertical market expertise. ZESs proprietary software and hardware are developed primarily by its internal team of engineers. Generally, our software is warranted for 90 days after going live to function consistently with its specifications, and our hardware is warranted to be free from material defects in materials and workmanship for up to one year after purchase. Customers Zebra has sold more than 9,400,000 thermal printers to customers as of December 31, 2010. ScanSource, Inc., is our most significant customer. Our net sales to ScanSource, a global distributor of Zebra SPG products, as a percent of our total net sales, were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Percent of net sales 18.5 % 16.1 % 15.4 % No other customer accounted for 10% or more of total net sales during these years. 11 Table of Contents Sales Net sales by product category for the last three years were (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, Product Category 2010 2009 2008 Hardware $ 682,455 $ 539,934 $ 692,638 Supplies 167,633 155,847 172,106 Service and software 101,579 102,541 105,113 Subtotal 951,667 798,322 969,857 Shipping and handling 5,181 5,263 6,843 Total net sales $ 956,848 $ 803,585 $ 976,700 Net sales to international customers, as a percent of total net sales, were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Percent of net sales 57.4 % 54.9 % 54.5 % We believe that international sales have the long-term potential to increase faster than domestic sales because of the lower penetration of automatic identification applications outside North America and Western Europe and generally higher economic growth rates in developing countries. As a result, Zebra has invested resources to support our international growth and currently operates facilities and sales offices, or has representation, in 30 different countries. Research and Development Zebras research and development expenditures for the last three years were as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Research and development expenses - SPG (excluding acquired in process technology) $ 69,605 $ 55,614 $ 63,142 Percent of SPG net sales 8.0 % 7.7 % 7.2 % Research and development expenses - ZES (excluding acquired in process technology) $ 32,325 $ 30,776 $ 32,658 Percent of ZES net sales 37.7 % 38.0 % 34.7 % We devote significant resources to developing new printing solutions for our target markets and ensuring that our products maintain high levels of reliability. Research and development resources are also directed toward enhancing our ZES systems. Intellectual Property Rights Zebra relies on a combination of trade secrets, patents, employee and third party nondisclosure agreements, copyright laws and contractual rights to establish and protect its proprietary rights in its products. We have and actively protect many domestic and international trademarks. We hold 375 United States and foreign patents and have 172 United States and foreign patent applications pending pertaining to products. The duration of these patents ranges from 1 to 22 years. The expiration of any individual patent would not have a significant negative impact on our business. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy portions of our products or to reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use some technology and information that we regard as proprietary. Moreover, the laws of some countries do not afford Zebra the same protection to 12 Table of Contents proprietary rights, as do United States laws. There can be no assurance that legal protections relied upon by Zebra to protect its proprietary position will be adequate. While Zebras intellectual property is valuable and provides certain competitive advantages, we do not believe that the legal protections afforded to our intellectual property are fundamental to our success. Other trademarks mentioned in this report are the property of their respective holders and include IBM, a registered trademark of International Business Machines; UNIX, a registered trademark of UNIX Systems Laboratories; MS/DOS and Windows, registered trademarks of Microsoft; SAP, a registered trademark of SAP AG; and Linux, a registered trademark of Linus Torvalds. Bluetooth is a trademark owned by Bluetooth SIG and used by Zebra under license. Employees As of January 28, 2011, Zebra employed approximately 2,750 persons, of which 2,020 are a part of SPG, 480 are a part of ZES and the remaining 250 are corporate employees. In connection with the sale of our Navis business and WhereNet Marine Terminal Solution software product line, we expect approximately 340 employees from ZES to become employees of the purchaser of these businesses. None of our employees is a member of a union. Some portions of our business, primarily in Europe, are subject to labor laws that differ significantly from those in the United States. For example, it is common for a works council to represent employees when discussing matters such as compensation, benefits or terminations of employment. We consider our employee relations to be very good. Additional Information For financial information regarding Zebra, see Zebras Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes, which are included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Zebra has two reportable segments for our operations and products. Financial information about segments and geographic areas is found in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 13 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Investors should carefully consider the risks, uncertainties and other factors described below, as well as other disclosures in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, because they could have a material adverse effect on Zebras business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and growth prospects. Final assembly of our thermal printers is performed by Jabil Circuit, a third-party electronics manufacturer. We are now dependent on Jabil for the manufacture of such printers. A failure by Jabil to provide manufacturing services to Zebra as Zebra now requires, or any disruption in such manufacturing services, may adversely affect Zebras business results. Because we rely on a third-party provider such as Jabil to manufacture its products, Zebra may incur increased business continuity risks. Zebra is no longer able to exercise direct control over the assembly or related operations of its thermal printers Jabil produces. If Jabil experiences business difficulties or fails to meet Zebras manufacturing needs, then Zebra may be unable to satisfy customer product demands, lose sales and be unable to maintain customer relationships. Longer production lead times may result in shortages of certain products and inadequate inventories during periods of unanticipated higher demand. Without Jabils continuing manufacture of Zebras products, Zebra will have no other means of final assembly of its thermal printers until Zebra is able to secure the manufacturing capability at another facility or develop an alternative manufacturing facility. This transition could be costly and time consuming. Although Zebra carries business interruption insurance to cover lost sales and profits in an amount it considers adequate, in the event of supply disruption, this insurance does not cover all possible situations. In addition, the business interruption insurance would not compensate Zebra for the loss of opportunity and potential adverse impact, both short term and long term, on relations with our existing customers. A third-party provider such as Jabil will have access to Zebras intellectual property, which increases the risk of infringement or misappropriation of this intellectual property. Zebra has significant operations outside the United States and sells a significant portion of its products internationally and purchases important components from foreign suppliers. These circumstances create a number of risks. Zebra has significant operations overseas which present added risks. In addition, Zebra sells a significant amount of its products to customers outside the United States. Shipments to international customers are expected to continue to account for a material portion of net sales. Risks associated with operations, sales and purchases outside the United States include: Inadequately managing and overseeing operations that are distant and remote from corporate headquarters, Fluctuating foreign currency rates could restrict sales, or increase costs of purchasing, in foreign countries, Volatility in foreign credit markets may affect our customers and suppliers, Adverse changes in, or uncertainty of, local business laws or practices, including the following: Foreign governments may impose burdensome tariffs, quotas, taxes, trade barriers or capital flow restrictions, Restrictions on the export or import of technology may reduce or eliminate the ability to sell in or purchase from certain markets, Political and economic instability may reduce demand for our products, or put our foreign assets at risk, Potentially limited intellectual property protection in certain countries may limit recourse against infringing products or cause Zebra to refrain from selling in certain geographic territories, Staffing and turnover at international operations may be unusually difficult, A government controlled exchange rate and limitations on the convertibility of the Chinese yuan, and Transportation delays that may affect production and distribution of Zebras products. 14 Table of Contents Zebra may not be able to continue to develop products to address user needs effectively in an industry characterized by ongoing change. To be successful, Zebra must adapt to rapidly changing technological and application needs by continually improving its products as well as introducing new products and services to address user demands. Zebras industry is characterized by: Evolving industry standards, Frequent new product and service introductions, Evolving distribution channels, Increasing demand for customized product and software solutions, and Changing customer demands. Future success will depend on Zebras ability to cost effectively adapt in this evolving environment. Zebra could incur substantial costs if it has to modify its business to adapt to these changes, and may even be unable to adapt to these changes. Customers have the right to return products that do not function properly within a limited time after delivery. Zebra monitors and tracks product returns and records a provision for the estimated future returns based on historical experience and any notification received of pending returns. Zebra, however, cannot guarantee that it will continue to experience return rates consistent with historical patterns. Zebra may be a party to fixed-price contracts particularly for its ZES product lines that could become unfavorable contracts. From time to time we may enter into contracts to provide services to customers for fixed fees. Such a contract could result in material loss to Zebra if the cost to perform such contract ultimately exceeds the fees earned on such contract. Zebra competes in a competitive industry, which may become more competitive. Competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technology and changes in customer requirements. Zebra faces significant competition in developing and selling its products and solutions. Some competitors have substantial marketing, financial, development and personnel resources. To remain competitive, Zebra believes it must continue to cost effectively provide: Technologically advanced systems that satisfy user demands, Superior customer service, High levels of quality and reliability, and Dependable and efficient distribution networks. Zebra cannot assure it will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. Increased competition in printers or supplies may result in price reductions, lower gross profit margins and loss of market share, and could require increased spending on research and development, sales and marketing and customer support. Some competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships with suppliers or companies that produce complementary products. Zebra is vulnerable to the potential difficulties associated with the rapid increase in the complexity of its business . Zebra has grown rapidly over the last several years through domestic and international growth and acquisitions. This growth has caused increased complexities in the business. We believe our future success depends in part on our ability to manage our growth and increased complexities of our business and the demands from increased responsibility on our management personnel. The following factors could present difficulties to us: Compliance with evolving laws and regulations, Managing our distribution channel partners, Manufacturing an increased number of products, Increased administrative and operational burden, Maintaining and improving information technology infrastructure to support growth, Increased logistical problems common to complex, expansive operations, and Managing increasing international operations. Zebra could encounter difficulties in any acquisition it undertakes, including unanticipated integration problems and business disruption. Acquisitions could also dilute stockholder value and adversely affect operating results. Zebra may acquire or make investments in other businesses, technologies, services or products. An acquisition may 15 Table of Contents present business issues which are new to Zebra. The process of integrating any acquired business, technology, service or product into operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Integration of an acquired company also may consume considerable management time and attention, which could otherwise be available for ongoing operations and development of the business. The expected benefits of any acquisition may not be realized. Acquisitions also may involve a number of risks: Difficulties and uncertainties in transitioning the customers or other business relationships from the acquired entities to Zebra, The loss of key employees of acquired entities, The ability of acquired entities to fulfill obligations to their customers, The discovery of unanticipated issues or liabilities, The failure of acquired entities to meet or exceed expected returns, and The acquired entities ability to improve internal controls and accounting systems to be compliant with requirements applicable to public companies subject to SEC reporting. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities. Zebra sources some of its component parts from sole source suppliers. A disruption in the supply of such component parts could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demand and negatively affect our financial results. Infringement by Zebra or Zebra suppliers on the proprietary rights of others could put Zebra at a competitive disadvantage, and any related litigation could be time consuming and costly. Third parties may claim that Zebra or Zebra suppliers violated their intellectual property rights. To the extent of a violation of a third partys patent or other intellectual property right, Zebra may be prevented from operating its business as planned, and may be required to pay damages, to obtain a license, if available, or to use a non-infringing method, if possible, to accomplish its objectives. Any of these claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and divert the attention of key personnel. If such claims are successful, they could result in costly judgments or settlements. Also, as new technologies emerge, such as RFID, the intellectual property rights of parties in such technologies can be uncertain. As a result, products involving such technologies may have higher risk of claims of infringement of the intellectual proprietary rights of third parties. The inability to protect intellectual property could harm Zebras reputation, and its competitive position may be materially damaged. Zebras intellectual property is valuable and provides Zebra with certain competitive advantages. Copyrights, patents, trade secrets and contracts are used to protect these proprietary rights. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for third parties to copy aspects of Zebras products or, without authorization, to obtain and use information which Zebra regards as trade secrets. Zebra may incur liabilities as a result of product failures due to actual or apparent design or manufacturing defects . Zebra may be subject to product liability claims, which could include claims for property or economic damage or personal injury, in the event our products present actual or apparent design or manufacturing defects. Such design or manufacturing defects may occur not only in Zebras own designed products but also in components provided by third party suppliers. Zebra generally has insurance protection against property damage and personal injury liabilities and also seeks to limit such risk through product design, manufacturing quality control processes, product testing and contractual indemnification from suppliers. However, due to the large and growing size of Zebras installed printer base, a design or manufacturing defect involving this large installed printer base could result in product recalls or customer service costs that could have material adverse effects on Zebras financial results. Zebras products are subject to U.S. and foreign regulations that pertain to electrical and electronic equipment, which may materially adversely affect Zebras business. These regulations influence the design, components or operation of such products. New regulations and changes to current regulations are always possible and, in some jurisdictions, regulations may be introduced with little or no time to bring related products into compliance with these regulations. Zebras failure to comply with these regulations may prevent Zebra from selling our products in a certain country. In addition, these regulations may increase our cost of supplying the products by forcing us to redesign existing products or to use more expensive designs or components. In these cases, Zebra may experience unexpected disruptions in our ability to supply customers with products, or we may incur unexpected costs or operational complexities to bring products into compliance. This could have an adverse effect on Zebras revenues, gross profit margins and results of operations and increase the volatility of our financial results. 16 Table of Contents Zebra is implementing a new company-wide enterprise resource planning (ERP) system. The implementation process is complex and involves a number of risks that may adversely affect Zebras business and results of operations. Zebra is currently replacing its multiple legacy business systems at its different sites with a new company-wide, integrated enterprise resource planning (ERP) system to handle various business, operating and financial processes for Zebra and its subsidiaries. The new system will enhance a variety of important functions, such as order entry, invoicing, accounts receivable, accounts payable, financial consolidation, logistics, and internal and external financial and management reporting matters. ERP implementations are complex and time-consuming projects that involve substantial expenditures on system hardware and software and implementation activities that often continue for several years. Such an integrated, wide-scale implementation is extremely complex and requires transformation of business and financial processes in order to reap the benefits of the ERP system. Significant efforts are required for requirements identification, functional design, process documentation, data conversion, user training and post implementation support. Problems in any of these areas could result in operational issues including delayed shipments or production, missed sales, billing and accounting errors and other operational issues. System delays or malfunctioning could also disrupt Zebras ability to timely and accurately process and report key components of the results of its consolidated operations, its financial position and cash flows, which could impact Zebras ability to timely complete important business processes such as the evaluation of its internal controls and attestation activities pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Until the new ERP system is fully implemented, Zebra expects to incur additional selling, general and administrative expenses and capital expenditures to implement and test the system, and there can be no assurance that other issues relating to the ERP system will not occur or be identified. Zebras business and results of operations may be adversely affected if it experiences operating problems and/or cost overruns during the ERP implementation process or if the ERP system and the associated process changes, do not function as expected or give rise to the expected benefits. Zebra depends on the ongoing service of its senior management and ability to attract and retain other key personnel. The future success of Zebra is substantially dependent on the continued service and continuing contributions of senior management and other key personnel. The ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees is important to Zebras long-term success. Competition for skill sets in certain functions within our industry is intense, and Zebra may be unable to retain key employees or attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified employees in the future. Terrorist attacks or war could lead to further economic instability and adversely affect Zebras stock price, operations, and profitability. The terrorist attacks that occurred in the United States on September 11, 2001, caused major instability in the U.S. and other financial markets. The possibility of further acts of terrorism and current and future war risks could have a similar impact. Any such attacks could, among other things, cause further instability in financial markets and could directly, or indirectly through reduced demand, negatively affect Zebras facilities and operations or those of its customers or suppliers. Taxing authority challenges may lead to tax payments exceeding current reserves. Zebra is subject to ongoing tax examinations in various jurisdictions. As a result, we may record incremental tax expense based on expected outcomes of such matters. In addition, we may adjust previously reported tax reserves based on expected results of these examinations. Such adjustments could result in an increase or decrease to Zebras effective tax rate. Economic conditions and financial market disruptions may adversely affect Zebras business and results of operations . Adverse economic conditions, in the United States or internationally, or reduced information technology spending may adversely impact our business. As widely reported, financial markets throughout the world experienced extreme disruption in 2008 and 2009, including historically high volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others, failure and potential failures of major financial institutions and unprecedented government support of financial institutions and corporations. A recurrence of these developments and a related general economic downturn could adversely affect Zebras business and financial condition through a reduction in demand for our products by our customers. If a slowdown were severe enough, it could require further impairment testing and write-downs of 17 Table of Contents goodwill and other intangible assets. Cost reduction actions may be necessary and lead to restructuring charges. A tightening of financial credit could adversely affect our customers, suppliers, outsource manufacturer and channel partners (e.g., distributors and resellers) from obtaining adequate credit for the financing of significant purchases. Another economic downturn could also result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for Zebras products and services; negatively impact Zebras ability to collect its accounts receivable on a timely basis; result in additional reserves for uncollectible accounts receivable; and require additional reserves for inventory obsolescence. Higher volatility and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates for the U.S. dollar against currencies such as the euro, the British pound, the Chinese yuan, and the Brazilian real could negatively impact product sales, margins and collections. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 18 Table of Contents Item 2. Properties Zebras corporate headquarters are located in Lincolnshire, Illinois, a northern suburb of Chicago. Zebra also conducts its sales, marketing, engineering and operations activities from facilities in Vernon Hills, Illinois, and in Camarillo, California. In March 2011, our operations that are located in Camarillo will be moved to a new facility located in Agoura Hills, California, and the Camarillo facility will be closed. Zebras principal facilities as of December 31, 2010, are listed below: Square Footage Location Manufacturing, Production & Warehousing Administrative, Research & Sales Total Lease Expires Vernon Hills, Illinois, USA (S) 111,676 113,429 225,105 June 2014 Camarillo, California, USA (S) 97,921 72,156 170,077 March 2011 Agoura Hills, California, USA (S) 75,077 75,077 March 2021 Heerenveen, The Netherlands (S) 48,427 46,145 95,572 January 2012 Greenville, Wisconsin, USA (S) 55,000 5,000 60,000 January 2018 Oakland, California, USA (Z)* 47,210 47,210 July 2013 Lincolnshire, Illinois, USA (C) 46,339 46,339 June 2014 Lincoln, Rhode Island, USA (S) 40,116 40,116 April 2016 Preston, UK (S) 30,450 8,600 39,050 Owned by Zebra Guangzhou, China (S) 32,655 32,655 January 2014 Flowery Branch, Georgia, USA (S) 28,255 2,145 30,400 April 2012 Bourne End, UK (S) 27,251 27,251 June 2014 Otay Mesa, California, USA (S) 21,739 4,900 26,639 September 2013 San Jose, California, USA (Z) 24,630 24,630 July 2015 Chennai, India (Z)* 19,234 19,234 March 2014 McAllen, Texas, USA (S) 15,500 2,500 18,000 September 2011 Chennai, India (Z)* 15,095 15,095 November 2012 Germantown, Maryland, USA (Z) 13,134 13,134 December 2015 Warsaw, Poland (S) 7,750 3,875 11,625 June 2012 Guangzhou, China (S) 11,624 11,624 May 2011 Shanghai, China (S) 7,524 7,524 January 2014 Mexico City, Mexico (S) 3,488 3,400 6,888 September 2012 Singapore, Singapore (S) 5,360 5,360 February 2012 Total 420,206 627,399 1,047,605 S Specialty Printing Group; Z Zebra Enterprise Solution Group; C Corporate; * Lease will be transferred to the purchaser in connection with the sale of the Navis business and WhereNet Marine Terminal Solution software product line, which is expected to close in the first quarter of 2011. Zebra leases various other facilities around the world, which are dedicated to administrative, research and sales functions. These other leases, solely or in aggregate, are not material to Zebra. 19 Table of Contents Item 3. Legal Proceedings See Notes 11 and 20 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Not applicable. 20 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Stock Information: Price Range and Common Stock Our Class A Common Stock is traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol ZBRA. The following table shows the high and low trade prices for each fiscal quarter in 2010 and 2009, as reported by The NASDAQ Stock Market. 2010 High Low 2009 High Low First Quarter $ 30.72 $ 26.10 First Quarter $ 21.70 $ 16.00 Second Quarter 31.00 24.32 Second Quarter 24.55 18.61 Third Quarter 34.13 24.14 Third Quarter 27.67 20.98 Fourth Quarter 39.31 33.14 Fourth Quarter 28.87 23.76 Source: The NASDAQ Stock Market At February 11, 2011, the last reported price for the Class A Common Stock was $41.18 per share, and there were 237 registered stockholders of record for Zebras Class A Common Stock. In addition, we had approximately 16,000 stockholders who owned Zebra stock in street name. Dividend Policy Since our initial public offering in 1991, we have not declared any cash dividends or distributions on our capital stock. Zebra currently does not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Treasury Shares During the fourth quarter of 2010, pursuant to our Rule 10b5-1 purchase plan, Zebra purchased 900,000 shares of Zebras Class A Common Stock at a weighted average share price of $38.56 per share, as follows: ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Period Total number of shares purchased Average price paid per share Total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced program Maximum number of shares that may yet be purchased under the program October 2010 (October 3 October 30) 0 $ 0.00 0 2,750,000 November 2010 (October 31 November 27) 0 $ 0.00 0 2,750,000 December 2010 (November 28 December 31) 900,000 $ 38.56 900,000 1,850,000 (1) In July 2010, Zebra purchased the then remaining authorized shares under our stock repurchase program. On August 3, 2010, Zebras Board authorized the purchase of up to an additional 3,000,000 shares under the same terms as previous authorizations. The August 2010 authorization does not have an expiration date. (2) During the fourth quarter, Zebra did not acquire any shares of Zebra Class A common stock through the withholding of shares necessary to satisfy tax withholding obligations upon the vesting of restricted stock awards. 21 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS (LOSS) DATA (In thousands, except per share amounts) Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Net sales $ 956,848 $ 803,585 $ 976,700 $ 868,279 $ 759,524 Cost of sales 495,979 442,864 497,395 451,161 401,104 Gross profit 460,869 360,721 479,305 417,118 358,420 Total operating expenses 317,017 (1) 291,919 (2) 494,651 (3) 273,933 277,991 (4) Operating income (loss) 143,852 68,802 (15,346) 143,185 80,429 Income (loss) before income taxes and cumulative effect of accounting change 144,935 70,523 (11,913) 167,375 101,642 Income (loss) before cumulative effect of accounting change 101,778 47,104 (38,421) 110,113 69,627 Cumulative effect of accounting change 1,319 (5) Net income (loss) $ 101,778 $ 47,104 $ (38,421) $ 110,113 $ 70,946 Earnings (loss) per share before cumulative effect of accounting change Basic $ 1.78 $ 0.79 $ (0.60) $ 1.61 $ 0.99 Diluted $ 1.77 $ 0.79 $ (0.60) $ 1.60 $ 0.98 Earnings (loss) per share Basic $ 1.78 $ 0.79 $ (0.60) $ 1.61 $ 1.01 Diluted $ 1.77 $ 0.79 $ (0.60) $ 1.60 $ 1.00 Weighted average shares outstanding Basic 57,143 59,306 64,524 68,463 70,516 Diluted 57,428 59,425 64,524 68,908 70,956 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET DATA (In thousands) December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, investments and marketable securities (current and long-term) (6) $ 259,899 $ 246,721 $ 224,886 $ 281,179 $ 559,189 Working capital 340,253 306,127 271,831 298,660 404,836 Total assets 878,864 830,479 850,878 1,034,278 963,142 Long-term obligations (7) 10,375 9,432 10,250 8,452 9,969 Stockholders equity 730,032 712,129 710,738 902,693 877,681 (1) Includes litigation settlement proceeds received of $1,082,000 and exit, restructuring and integration (ERI) charges of $4,197,000. (2) Includes asset impairment reversal of $1,058,000 and ERI charges of $12,191,000. (3) Includes asset impairment charges of $157,600,000 and ERI charges of $20,009,000. (4) Includes litigation settlement paid of $53,392,000 and insurance receivable reserve of $12,543,000. (5) Relates to the estimation of forfeitures on prior year compensation expense outstanding at the adoption date of Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 505 and ASC 718. See Note 15 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K. (6) The decrease in 2007 and 2008 was principally the result of (i) our acquisitions of WhereNet, proveo AG, and Navis during 2007 and our acquisition of Multispectral Solutions Inc., and (ii) purchase of our stock during 2008. See Note 20 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K for further discussion of the acquisitions. (7) Long-term obligations include deferred compensation and unearned revenue. See Note 16 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K for further discussion of the Deferred Compensation Plan. 22 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations: Fourth Quarter of 2010 versus Fourth Quarter of 2009 Consolidated Results of Operations (Amounts in thousands, except percentages) Three Months Ended Percent Change Percent of Net Sales 2010 Percent of Net Sales 2009 December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Net Sales Tangible products $ 223,071 $ 197,097 13.2 89.9 88.6 Service & software 25,104 25,425 (1.3) 10.1 11.4 Total net sales 248,175 222,522 11.5 100.0 100.0 Cost of Sales Tangible products 113,191 110,611 2.3 45.6 49.7 Service & software 11,343 10,433 8.7 4.6 4.7 Total cost of sales 124,534 121,044 2.9 50.2 54.4 Gross profit 123,641 101,478 21.8 49.8 45.6 Operating expenses 83,207 75,240 10.6 33.5 33.8 Operating income 40,434 26,238 54.1 16.3 11.8 Other income (211) 945 (122.3) (0.1) 0.4 Income before income taxes 40,223 27,183 48.0 16.2 12.2 Income taxes 12,006 9,553 25.7 4.8 4.3 Net income $ 28,217 $ 17,630 60.1 11.4 7.9 Diluted earnings per share $ 0.50 $ 0.30 Consolidated Results of Operations Fourth quarter Sales Net sales for the fourth quarter of 2010 compared with the 2009 quarter increased 11.5% from a broad-based increase in demand for Zebra products, driven by the global economic recovery. This was the fourth consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth. The increase in sales was largely attributable to 14.8% growth in hardware sales (including all printer categories and aftermarket parts). Printer unit volume increased 13.3% for the fourth quarter of 2010 compared to levels in 2009. Sales by product category were as follows (amounts in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended Percent Change Percent of Net Sales 2010 Percent of Net Sales 2009 Product Category December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Hardware $ 179,956 $ 156,706 14.8 72.5 70.4 Supplies 41,719 39,011 6.9 16.8 17.5 Service and software 25,104 25,425 (1.3) 10.1 11.4 Subtotal 246,779 221,142 11.6 99.4 99.3 Shipping and handling 1,396 1,380 1.2 0 .6 0.7 Total sales $ 248,175 $ 222,522 11.5 100.0 100.0 Sales increased in all geographic territories due primarily to the global economic recovery. The sales growth on a percentage basis was greatest in Latin America and Asia Pacific because of higher rates of economic growth in those regions and increasing investment in sales and marketing resources in those regions. Movements in foreign exchange rates decreased sales by $6,364,000 in the Europe, Middle East and Africa regions for the quarter due principally to a weaker euro against the dollar from the prior year. 23 Table of Contents Sales to customers by geographic region were as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended Percent Change Percent of Net Sales 2010 Percent of Net Sales 2009 Geographic Region December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Europe, Middle East and Africa $ 91,800 $ 82,377 11.4 37.0 37.0 Latin America 23,215 20,196 14.9 9.4 9.1 Asia-Pacific 34,458 21,984 56.7 13.9 9.9 Total International 149,473 124,557 20.0 60.3 56.0 North America 98,702 97,965 0.8 39.7 44.0 Total sales $ 248,175 $ 222,522 11.5 100.0 100.0 Gross Profit Gross profit increased 21.8% due to higher volumes and an improved product mix, with increased sales primarily in mobile, high-performance, mid-range table top printers and lower freight costs of $1,224,000 in 2010. Gross profit was affected by unfavorable foreign currency movements which decreased fourth quarter gross profit by $5,628,000. As a percentage of sales, gross margin improved from 45.6% to 49.8%. The benefit of outsourcing printer production to a third party, higher volumes, improved product mix and continued cost control contributed to the increase in gross margin. Operating Expenses Operating expenses are summarized below (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended Percent Change Percent of Net Sales 2010 Percent of Net Sales 2009 Operating Expenses December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Selling and marketing $ 34,496 $ 28,543 20.9 13.9 12.8 Research and development 26,741 21,838 22.5 10.8 9.8 General and administrative 19,492 19,514 (0.1) 7.9 8.8 Amortization of intangible assets 2,426 2,608 (7.0) 1.0 1.2 Litigation settlement (1,082) (0.4) Exit, restructuring and integration costs 1,134 2,737 (58.5) 0.5 1.2 Total operating expenses $ 83,207 $ 75,240 10.6 33.5 33.8 Operating expenses for the quarter increased 10.6% due mainly to greater selling and marketing expenses and research and development expenses. Several categories accounted for these increases, including compensation costs which include salaries, benefits, bonuses and commissions. Business development, outside professional services, project expenses, and travel and entertainment expenses all increased over 2009 levels. Litigation settlement relates to escrowed purchase funds received in 2010. Exit, restructuring and integration costs decreased $1,602,000 in the fourth quarter of 2010 as compared to 2009. Zebras program for outsourcing its manufacturing operations was completed in 2010. Integration costs associated with the Zebra Enterprise Solutions (ZES) businesses were completed in 2009. Other Income Zebras non-operating income and expense items are summarized in the following table (in thousands): Three Months Ended December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Investment income $ 570 $ 695 Foreign exchange gain (loss) (448 ) 795 Other, net (333 ) (545 ) Total other income $ (211 ) $ 945 24 Table of Contents Investment income declined from lower short-term interest rates in the fourth quarter of 2010 compared with 2009. Zebra recorded a foreign exchange gain in the fourth quarter of 2009 as the U.S. dollar strengthened against the euro. Operating Income (Loss) The increased operating income for the fourth quarter of 2010 over the same period in 2009 is the result of increased sales in a stronger economy as noted above. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate for the fourth quarter of 2010 was 29.8% compared with 35.1% for the same quarter last year. The tax rate decrease for the fourth quarter of 2010 versus 2009 reflects an extension of Federal R&D tax credits. The companys consolidated global tax rate has declined as Zebras business continued to expand more rapidly in international regions that have lower tax rates. Business Groups Specialty Printing Group Fourth Quarter (Amounts in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended Percent Change Percent of Net Sales 2010 Percent of Net Sales 2009 December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Net Sales Tangible products $ 217,899 $ 194,566 12.0 95.9 95.8 Service & software 9,264 8,556 8.3 4.1 4.2 Total net sales 227,163 203,122 11.8 100.0 100.0 Cost of Sales Tangible products 109,148 108,521 0.6 48.1 53.5 Service & software 6,128 4,732 29.5 2.7 2.3 Total cost of sales 115,276 113,253 1.8 50.7 55.8 Gross profit 111,887 89,869 24.5 49.3 44.2 Operating expenses 49,445 42,519 16.3 21.8 20.9 Operating income $ 62,442 $ 47,350 31.9 27.5 23.3 Specialty Printing Group Fourth quarter Net sales in our Specialty Printing Group (SPG) increased 11.8% with the highest percentage growth in sales occurring in Latin America and Asia Pacific, and the highest dollar growth occurring in Asia-Pacific and the Europe, Middle East and Africa region. The increase in sales was largely attributable to increased hardware sales, with notable increases in sales of high-performance and mid-range tabletop, desktop, mobile printers and aftermarket parts. Gross profit increased due to higher volumes and an improved product mix, with increased sales primarily in mobile, high-performance, mid-range table top printers and lower freight costs of $1,224,000 in 2010. Gross profit for SPG was affected by unfavorable foreign currency movements which decreased fourth quarter gross profit by $5,628,000. As a percentage of sales, gross margin increased. The benefit of outsourcing printer production to a third party, higher volumes, improved product mix and continued cost control contributed to the increase in gross margin. 25 Table of Contents Printer unit volumes and average selling price information is summarized below: Three Months Ended December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Percent Change Total printers shipped 276,597 244,100 13.3 Average selling price of printers shipped $535 $531 0.8 For the fourth quarter of 2010, unit volumes increased in nearly all printer product lines compared to the same period of 2009, with notable volume increases in high-performance tabletop, desktop and mobile printers. Operating expense changes for SPG in 2010, compared to the same periods in 2009, are due to the following (in thousands): Three Months Ended Increase / (Decrease) December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Payroll and benefit costs $ 30,419 $ 24,463 $ 5,956 Business development 4,843 4,094 749 Project expenses 2,302 1,163 1,139 Travel and entertainment 2,266 1,698 568 Exit, restructuring and integration costs 1,817 (1,817) Other changes 9,615 9,284 331 Total operating expenses $ 49,445 $ 42,519 $ 6,926 Operating expenses for SPG increased primarily due to greater selling and marketing expenses from the higher level of business activity and expansion into new geographic markets. Project expenses increased due to greater expenses related to bringing new products to market. Exit and restructuring charges have declined as the activities related to the outsourcing of our printer manufacturing began to ramp down in the fourth quarter of 2009 and were completed by the second quarter of 2010. Zebra Enterprise Solutions Fourth Quarter (Amounts in thousands, except percentages) Three Months Ended Percent Change Percent of Net Sales 2010 Percent of Net Sales 2009 December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Net Sales Tangible products $ 5,172 $ 2,531 104.3 24.6 13.0 Service & software 15,840 16,869 (6.1) 75.4 87.0 Total net sales 21,012 19,400 8.3 100.0 100.0 Cost of Sales Tangible products 4,043 2,090 93.4 19.2 10.8 Service & software 5,215 5,701 (8.5) 24.9 29.4 Total cost of sales 9,258 7,791 18.8 44.1 40.2 Gross profit 11,754 11,609 1.2 55.9 59.8 Operating expenses 17,135 17,024 0.7 81.5 87.8 Operating loss $ (5,381) $ (5,415) (0.6) (25.6) (28.0) 26 Table of Contents Zebra Enterprise Solutions Fourth quarter ZES sales increased 8.3% for the fourth quarter of 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to increased hardware revenue. The improved economic conditions helped increase ZES sales primarily in the automotive and industrial manufacturing verticals. Increases were offset by a reduction to installation services revenue associated with customer project implementations delays. Gross margin dollars increased slightly in the fourth quarter over 2009, yet the margin percentages for the 2010 quarter declined primarily driven by revenue mix change and license revenue which was not recognized from customer project implementation delays. ZES operating expenses in the fourth quarter of 2010 compared to 2009 are summarized below (in thousands): Three Months Ended Increase / (Decrease) December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Payroll and benefit costs $ 10,575 $ 9,951 $ 624 Business development 744 276 468 Travel and entertainment 1,074 822 252 Exit, restructuring and integration costs 443 866 (423) Litigation settlement (1,082) (1,082) Amortization expense 1,589 1,917 (328) Other changes 3,792 3,192 600 Total operating expenses $ 17,135 $ 17,024 $ 111 ZES operating expenses for the fourth quarter of 2010 were higher than 2009 due to increases in payroll and benefit costs, selling and marketing, consulting, project expenses and travel and entertainment costs. These increases were offset by reductions to exit, restructuring and integration costs and lower amortization expense due to an intangible asset being fully amortized at the end of 2009. ZES received funds in the fourth quarter of 2010 from a litigation settlements related to escrowed purchase funds. 27 Table of Contents Results of Operations: Year ended December 31, 2010 versus Year ended December 31, 2009 Consolidated Results of Operations (Amounts in thousands, except percentages) Year Ended Percent Change Percent of Net Sales 2010 Percent of Net Sales 2009 December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Net Sales Tangible products $ 855,269 $ 701,044 22.0 89.4 87.2 Service & software 101,579 102,541 (0.9) 10.6 12.8 Total net sales 956,848 803,585 19.1 100.0 100.0 Cost of Sales Tangible products 455,007 401,727 13.3 47.6 50.0 Service & software 40,972 41,137 (0.4) 4.3 5.1 Total cost of sales 495,979 442,864 12.0 51.8 55.1 Gross profit 460,869 360,721 27.8 48.2 44.9 Operating expenses 317,017 291,919 8.6 33.1 36.3 Operating income 143,852 68,802 109.1 15.0 8.6 Other income 1,083 1,721 (37.1) 0.1 0.2 Income before income taxes 144,935 70,523 105.5 15.1 8.8 Income taxes 43,157 23,419 84.3 4.5 2.9 Net income $ 101,778 $ 47,104 116.1 10.6 5.9 Diluted earnings per share $ 1.77 $ 0.79 Consolidated Results of Operations Year to date Sales Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared with 2009 increased 19.1% from a broad-based increase in demand for Zebra products and global economic recovery. The increase in sales was largely attributable to increased hardware sales with notable volume increases in high-performance tabletop, desktop, mobile printers and aftermarket parts. Supplies sales increased from greater shipments of labels and thermal ribbons. Printer unit volume increased 24.4% for the 2010 year compared to levels in 2009. The average selling price increased from $522 in 2009 to $533 in 2010, or by 2.1% due primarily to changes in product mix. Sales by product category were as follows (amounts in thousands, except percentages): Year Ended Percent Change Percent of Net Sales 2010 Percent of Net Sales 2009 Product Category December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Hardware $ 682,455 $ 539,934 26.4 71.4 67.1 Supplies 167,633 155,847 7.6 17.5 19.4 Service and software 101,579 102,541 (0.9) 10.6 12.8 Subtotal 951,667 798,322 19.2 99.5 99.3 Shipping and handling 5,181 5,263 (1.6) 0.5 0.7 Total sales $ 956,848 $ 803,585 19.1 100.0 100.0 Sales increased in all geographic territories due primarily to the global economic recovery. The sales growth on a percentage basis was greatest in Latin America and Asia Pacific because of higher rates of economic growth in those regions and as a result of greater investment in sales and marketing resources. Movements in foreign exchange rates decreased sales in 2010 by $13,733,000 in the Europe, Middle East and Africa regions principally due to a weaker euro against the dollar compared to 2009 levels. 28 Table of Contents Sales to customers by geographic region were as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Year Ended Percent Change Percent of Net Sales 2010 Percent of Net Sales 2009 Geographic Region December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Europe, Middle East and Africa $ 338,573 $ 294,296 15.0 35.4 36.6 Latin America 87,278 65,060 34.2 9.1 8.1 Asia-Pacific 123,796 82,120 50.8 12.9 10.2 Total International 549,647 441,476 24.5 57.4 54.9 North America 407,201 362,109 12.5 42.6 45.1 Total sales $ 956,848 $ 803,585 19.1 100.0 100.0 Gross Profit Gross profit increased 27.8% due to higher volumes and an improved product mix, with increased sales primarily in mobile, high-performance and mid-range table top printers, partially offset by $13,552,000 in higher freight costs in 2010. Gross profit was affected by unfavorable foreign currency movements which decreased gross profit by $12,172,000. As a percentage of sales, gross margin improved from 44.9% to 48.2%. The benefit of outsourcing printer production to a third party, higher volumes, a favorable product mix and continued cost control contributed to the increase in gross margin. Operating Expenses Operating expenses are summarized below (in thousands, except percentages): Year Ended Percent Change Percent of Net Sales 2010 Percent of Net Sales 2009 Operating Expenses December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Selling and marketing $ 122,689 $ 102,535 19.7 12.8 12.8 Research and development 101,930 86,390 18.0 10.7 10.7 General and administrative 79,710 81,395 (2.1) 8.3 10.1 Amortization of intangible assets 9,573 10,466 (8.5) 1.0 1.3 Litigation settlement (1,082) (0.1) Asset impairment charges (1,058) (100.0) (0.1) Exit, restructuring and integration costs 4,197 12,191 (65.6) 0.4 1.5 Total operating expenses $ 317,017 $ 291,919 8.6 33.1 36.3 Operating expenses for the 2010 compared to 2009 increased 8.6% due to greater selling and marketing expenses and research and development expenses. Several categories accounted for these increases, including compensation costs, business development, project expenses, outside professional services, travel and entertainment, and offsite meeting expenses. Amortization of intangibles decreased $893,000 due to an intangible asset being fully amortized at the end of 2009. Expenses in 2010 were reduced by the receipt of an escrow claim litigation settlement received in the fourth quarter of 2010. During the second quarter of 2009, $1,495,000 of the goodwill impairment charge recorded at the end of 2008 was reversed and a $437,000 impairment charge was recorded related to an intangible asset in our ZES segment. Exit, restructuring and integration costs decreased in 2010 as compared to 2009 as activities related to the shutdown of our production lines as part of the transition to outsourcing and the integration of our ZES businesses have decreased substantially in 2010. Zebras program for outsourcing its manufacturing operations is complete and the related restructuring costs for this program ended. In addition, integration costs associated with integrating the Zebra Enterprise Solutions (ZES) businesses were completed in 2009. 29 Table of Contents Selling and Marketing Expenses Selling and marketing expenses are summarized below (in thousands): Year Ended Increase / (Decrease) December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Payroll and benefit costs $ 76,720 $ 64,491 $ 12,229 Business Development 21,660 17,781 3,879 Travel and entertainment expenses 7,834 5,681 2,153 Other changes 16,475 14,582 1,893 Total selling and marketing expenses $ 122,689 $ 102,535 $ 20,154 Selling and marketing expenses were higher in 2010 primarily due to increased payroll and benefit costs related to expanding markets and increased sales volume. Payroll and benefit cost increases include salaries, bonus, commissions, benefits and payroll taxes. Other selling and marketing expense categories also increased over 2009 levels due to higher expenses relating to the addition of Zebra sales representatives to expand Zebras global reach into new developing geographic regions. In 2009, comparable costs were lower due to a cost reduction program consisting primarily of headcount reductions implemented during the second half of 2008 in response to the difficult business environment. Expenditures for all types of advertising and marketing costs were lower in 2009 as part of our corporate wide cost control efforts in a challenging economy. Research and Development Costs The development of new products and enhancement of existing products are important to Zebras business and growth prospects. To maintain and build our product pipeline, we continue to make investments in research and development. In 2010 we introduced an updated two inch plus light duty printer and a new Xi4 high-performance printer. In the fourth quarter of 2009 we began shipping our first re-transfer card printer which has photo-quality imaging for security and government use. We also introduced innovative new IQ color labels which enables customers to print spot colors on predetermined areas of a label using any Zebra thermal label printer. This breakthrough product enhances readability, increases business efficiency and improves safety. In 2010, Zebra Enterprise Solutions introduced new gate, vessel, billing, automation, analytics and monitoring capabilities in its terminal operating system solution, support for rack tracking, RFID support, and goods return for our manufacturing solution along with a new tag form factor for parts replenishment and a new Ethernet enabled proximity exciter. ZES also released enhancements to its equipment fleet management solution to provide added visibility for operator safety and equipment maintenance. Quarterly product development expenses fluctuate widely depending on the status of ongoing projects. We are committed to a long-term strategy of significant investment in product development. Research and development costs are summarized below (in thousands): Year Ended Increase / (Decrease) December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Payroll and benefit costs $ 70,243 $ 63,036 $ 7,207 Professional services expenses 8,069 5,165 2,904 Project expenses 7,943 4,765 3,178 Travel and entertainment expenses 2,749 1,867 882 Other changes 12,926 11,557 1,369 Total research and development costs $ 101,930 $ 86,390 $ 15,540 The increases in research and development costs relate to increased payroll and benefit costs, compliance and project expenses to bring new products to market. 30 Table of Contents General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses are summarized below (in thousands): Year Ended Increase / (Decrease) December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Payroll and benefit costs $ 41,446 $ 38,351 $ 3,095 Professional services expenses 10,372 12,474 (2,102) Travel and entertainment expenses 1,837 1,332 505 Depreciation expense 9,519 9,869 (350) Gain (loss) on equipment (61) 829 (890) Other changes 16,597 18,540 (1,943) Total general and administrative expenses $ 79,710 $ 81,395 $ (1,685) General and administrative expenses decreased slightly overall. Payroll and benefit costs increased due to increased amounts in 2010 for bonus and benefits related to improved operating results in 2010. Consulting expenses related to business improvement initiatives in 2009 were reduced in 2010. Amortization of Intangible Assets Amortization of intangible assets decreased $893,000 during 2010 due to an intangible asset being fully amortized at the end of 2009. Litigation Settlement In 2010 Zebra received litigation settlement proceeds related to our acquisition of MSSI in 2008. See Note 20 for further information related to the litigation settlement. Asset Impairment Charges During the fourth quarter of 2008, we determined that certain impairment indicators existed related to identified intangible assets and conducted an additional impairment test of intangibles. Due to the deterioration of the economy and a significant reduction in the price of our stock, we determined that our goodwill and other intangible assets were impaired requiring total estimated impairment charges of $157,600,000 at December 31, 2008. Upon completion of a detailed second step impairment analysis we recorded a credit of $1,495,000 in the second quarter of 2009 to adjust a portion of our original goodwill impairment. In 2009, we also recorded an impairment charge for an intangible asset of $437,000. See Note 7 of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a more detailed discussion of the asset impairment charges. Exit, Restructuring and Integration Charges For 2010, exit and restructuring costs were $4,197,000. For 2009, exit and restructuring costs were $8,985,000 and integration costs were $3,206,000. The reduction is due to the completion of our production outsourcing. See Note 9 of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a more detailed discussion of the exit, restructuring and integration charges. Other Income Zebras non-operating income and expense items are summarized in the following table (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Investment income $ 2,681 $ 2,933 Foreign exchange loss (213 ) (45 ) Other, net (1,385 ) (1,167 ) Total other income $ 1,083 $ 1,721 31 Table of Contents Year Ended Rate of Return Analysis: December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Average cash and marketable securities balances $ 253,310 $ 235,803 Annualized rate of return 1.1% 1.2% Investment income for 2009 was $958,000 lower due to write-downs recorded in 2009 related to losses on equity investments. Investment income for 2009 was $2,933,000 compared to $2,681,000 in 2010. Excluding the 2009 write-downs, Zebras annualized rate of return would have been 1.6% for 2009. Considering this item, investment income in 2010 actually declined primarily from lower short-term interest rates in 2010 compared with 2009. Cash and marketable securities balances for 2010 have increased compared to 2009 as a result of increased cash from operations. Operating Income The operating income increase for 2010 was the result of increased sales and gross profit as noted above. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate for 2010 was 29.8% compared with an income tax rate of 33.2% for 2009. Zebras effective tax rate for 2010 included a $2,764,000 reduction of federal taxes related to prior years adjustments for intercompany profit in ending inventory which reduced our effective rate by 1.9%. The tax rate decrease for 2010 versus 2009 reflects an extension of Federal R&D tax credits. The companys consolidated global tax rate has declined as Zebras business continued to expand more rapidly in international regions that have lower tax rates. Business Groups Specialty Printing Group - Year to date (Amounts in thousands, except percentages) Year Ended Percent Change Percent of Net Sales 2010 Percent of Net Sales 2009 December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Net Sales Tangible products $ 834,392 $ 688,057 21.3 95.8 95.2 Service & software 36,644 34,499 6.2 4.2 4.8 Total net sales 871,036 722,556 20.5 100.0 100.0 Cost of Sales Tangible products 437,936 392,298 11.6 50.3 54.3 Service & software 19,432 18,013 7.9 2.2 2.5 Total cost of sales 457,368 410,311 11.5 52.5 56.8 Gross profit 413,668 312,245 32.5 47.5 43.2 Operating expenses 183,770 164,124 12.0 21.1 22.7 Operating income (loss) $ 229,898 $ 148,121 55.2 26.4 20.5 Specialty Printing Group Year to date Net sales for SPG increased 20.5% for 2010 as compared to 2009 with the highest percentage growth in sales occurring in Latin America and Asia Pacific, and the highest dollar growth occurring in North America, Latin America and the Europe, Middle East and Africa region. 32 Table of Contents The increase in sales was largely attributable to increased hardware sales, with notable increases in sales of high-performance and mid-range tabletop, desktop, mobile printers and aftermarket parts. Supplies sales increased from higher shipments of labels and thermal ribbons. Gross profit for SPG increased from higher volumes and an improved product mix, with increased sales primarily in mobile, high-performance and mid-range table top printers, partially offset by $13,552,000 in higher freight costs in 2010. Gross profit was affected by unfavorable foreign currency movements which decreased gross profit by $12,172,000. As a percentage of sales, gross margin increased. The benefit of outsourcing printer production to a third party, higher volumes, improved product mix and continued cost control contributed to the increase in gross margin. Printer unit volumes and average selling price information is summarized below: Year Ended December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Percent Change Total printers shipped 1,057,744 850,230 24.4 Average selling price of printers shipped $ 533 $ 522 2.1 For 2010, product unit volumes increased in nearly all printer product lines compared to the same periods of 2009, with notable volume increases in high-performance and midrange table top, desktop, and mobile. These increases were offset by a reduction in photo printers as this line was discontinued in 2009. Operating expenses for SPG are summarized below (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Increase / (Decrease) Payroll and benefit costs $ 112,824 $ 97,010 $ 15,814 Business development 17,996 15,530 2,466 Project expenses 6,646 4,411 2,235 Travel & entertainment 7,314 5,416 1,898 I.S. expenses 2,977 2,278 699 Recruiting Fees 761 272 489 Sales meeting expenses 883 441 442 Exit and restructuring costs 2,123 7,819 (5,696) Other changes 32,246 30,947 1,299 Total operating expenses $ 183,770 $ 164,124 $ 19,646 Operating expenses for SPG increased primarily due to greater selling and marketing expenses from the higher level of business activity and expansion into new markets. Operating expenses are higher due to increases in payroll and benefit costs, advertising and marketing costs, consulting fees, compliance costs, and travel and entertainment expenses. Exit, restructuring and integration costs are being reduced as the outsourcing project was completed in 2010. 33 Table of Contents Zebra Enterprise Solutions - Year to date (Amounts in thousands, except percentages) Year Ended Percent Change Percent of Net Sales 2010 Percent of Net Sales 2009 December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Net Sales Tangible products $ 20,877 $ 12,987 60.8 24.3 16.0 Service & software 64,935 68,042 (4.6) 75.7 84.0 Total net sales 85,812 81,029 5.9 100.0 100.0 Cost of Sales Tangible products 17,071 9,429 81.0 19.9 11.6 Service & software 21,540 23,124 (6.9) 25.1 28.5 Total cost of sales 38,611 32,553 18.6 45.0 40.2 Gross profit 47,201 48,476 (2.6) 55.0 59.8 Operating expenses 66,772 63,730 4.8 77.8 78.7 Operating loss $ (19,571) $ (15,254) 28.3 (22.8) (18.9) Zebra Enterprise Solutions Year to date ZES sales increased 5.9% for the year compared to 2009 primarily due to higher sales of hardware related to bookings and steady license revenue. ZES sales increased primarily in the automotive and industrial manufacturing verticals. Services remained steady in a difficult economy. Margins declined as a result of the change in sales mix. ZES operating expenses are summarized below (in thousands): Year Ended Increase / (Decrease) December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Payroll and benefit costs $ 40,944 $ 37,576 $ 3,368 Business development 2,326 1,108 1,218 Outside professional services 2,539 1,696 843 Project expenses 1,203 508 695 Travel & entertainment 3,809 2,569 1,240 Exit, restructuring and integration costs 673 4,210 (3,537) Impairment charges (1,059) 1,059 Amortization expense 6,568 7,712 (1,144) Litigation settlements (1,082) (1,082) Other changes 9,792 9,410 382 Total operating expenses $ 66,772 $ 63,730 $ 3,042 ZES operating expenses for the year were higher than the 2009 period due to increases in payroll and benefit costs, consulting, project expenses and travel and entertainment costs. These increases were offset due to lower provision required for receivables, reduced integration costs, and lower amortization expense due to an intangible asset being fully amortized at the end of 2009. Included in operating expenses for 2010 is a $1,082,000 in litigation settlement proceeds from escrow claims related to our acquisitions. See Note 20 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information related to the escrow claim. 34 Table of Contents Comparison of Years Ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 Consolidated Results of Operations (Amounts in thousands, except percentages) Year Ended December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Percent Change Percent of Net Sales - 2009 Percent of Net Sales - 2008 Net Sales Tangible products $ 701,044 $ 871,587 (19.6 ) 87.2 89.2 Service & software 102,541 105,113 (2.4 ) 12.8 10.8 Total net sales 803,585 976,700 (17.7 ) 100.0 100.0 Cost of Sales Tangible products 401,727 452,208 (11.2 ) 50.0 46.3 Service & software 41,137 45,187 (9.0 ) 5.1 4.6 Total cost of sales 442,864 497,395 (11.0 ) 55.1 50.9 Gross profit 360,721 479,305 (24.7 ) 44.9 49.1 Operating expenses 291,919 494,651 (41.0 ) 36.3 50.6 Operating income (loss) 68,802 (15,346 ) 548.3 8.6 (1.5 ) Other income 1,721 3,433 (49.9 ) 0.2 0.3 Income (loss) before income taxes 70,523 (11,913 ) 692.0 8.8 (1.2 ) Income taxes 23,419 26,508 (11.7 ) 2.9 2.7 Net income (loss) $ 47,104 $ (38,421 ) 222.6 5.9 (3.9 ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share $ 0.79 $ (0.60 ) Consolidated Results of Operations Year to date Sales Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared with 2008 decreased 17.7%, due primarily to global economic conditions. Sales in each geographic region also were down by similar percentages. The decreases in sales were largely attributable to a decline in hardware sales volume. Hardware sales declined proportionally more for our high-performance, midrange table top and desk top printers, which carry a higher sales price and are more profitable. Notable weakness in sales from the economic downturn began in the third quarter of 2008 and continued throughout 2009. Cash flow hedging activities in 2009 increased revenues by $603,000 compared with a decrease in revenues from cash flow hedging in 2008 of $12,354,000. Sales by product category were as follows (amounts in thousands, except percentages): Year Ended Product Category December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Percent Change Percent of Net Sales - 2009 Percent of Net Sales - 2008 Hardware $ 539,934 $ 692,638 (22.0 ) 67.1 70.9 Supplies 155,847 172,106 (9.4 ) 19.4 17.6 Service and software 102,541 105,113 (2.4 ) 12.8 10.8 Shipping and handling 5,263 6,843 (23.1 ) 0.7 0.7 Total sales $ 803,585 $ 976,700 (17.7 ) 100.0 100.0 35 Table of Contents Sales to customers by geographic region were as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Year Ended Percent Change Percent of Net Sales - 2009 Percent of Net Sales - 2008 Geographic Region December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Europe, Middle East and Africa $ 294,296 $ 353,273 (16.7) 36.6 36.2 Latin America 65,060 76,489 (14.9) 8.1 7.8 Asia-Pacific 82,120 102,672 (20.0) 10.2 10.5 Total International 441,476 532,434 (17.1) 54.9 54.5 North America 362,109 444,266 (18.5) 45.1 45.5 Total sales $ 803,585 $ 976,700 (17.7) 100.0 100.0 Gross Profit Gross profit in 2009 compared with 2008 decreased due to lower volumes and a less favorable product mix. Higher freight costs were incurred in order to meet customer demand in 2009, primarily in the fourth quarter. Unfavorable foreign exchange rates in 2009 decreased gross profit in 2009 by $16,745,000, net of hedges. These factors were partially offset by the benefit of outsourcing and the full year effect of continued cost containment efforts in 2009. Operating Expenses Operating expenses are summarized below (in thousands, except percentages): Year Ended Percent Change Percent of Net Sales 2009 Percent of Net Sales 2008 Operating Expenses December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Selling and marketing $ 102,535 $ 126,325 (18.8) 12.8 12.9 Research and development 86,390 95,800 (10.0) 10.7 9.8 General and administrative 81,395 81,644 10.1 8.4 Amortization of intangible assets 10,466 18,575 (43.7) 1.3 1.9 Litigation settlement (5,302) 100.0 (0.5) Asset impairment charges (1,058) 157,600 (100.7) (0.1) 16.1 Exit, restructuring and integration costs 12,191 20,009 (39.1) 1.5 2.0 Total operating expenses $ 291,919 $ 494,651 (41.0) 36.3 50.6 Lower overall operating expenses for 2009 compared to 2008 resulted from decreases in several categories including payroll costs primarily from lower staffing levels, outside commissions, project costs, and travel and entertainment expenses. Amortization of intangibles decreased due to impairments recorded in the fourth quarter of 2008 for the impairment of goodwill, intellectual property and other assets. Expenses in 2008 were reduced by the receipt of an escrow claim litigation settlement received in the third quarter of 2008. The above reductions were partially offset by increases in general and administrative expenses for consulting and benefit costs in 2009. During the fourth quarter or 2008, we took charges totaling $157,600,000 for the impairment of goodwill, intellectual property and other assets. During the second quarter of 2009, $1,495,000 of the goodwill impairment charge was reversed and a $437,000 impairment charge was recorded related to an intangible asset in our ZES segment. Exit, restructuring and integration costs decreased in 2009 as compared to 2008 as activities related to the ramp down of our production lines and the integration of our ZES businesses have substantially decreased. 36 Table of Contents Selling and Marketing Expenses Selling and marketing expenses are summarized below (in thousands): Year Ended Increase/(Decrease) December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Payroll and benefit costs $ 64,920 $ 75,986 $ (11,066) Advertising and market development fund costs 17,781 23,078 (5,297) Professional services expenses 2,826 3,434 (608) Travel and entertainment expenses 5,681 8,133 (2,452) Offsite meetings 418 3,659 (3,241) Other changes 10,909 12,035 (1,126) Total selling and marketing expenses $ 102,535 $ 126,325 $ (23,790) Selling and marketing expenses decreased in 2009 due to a cost reduction program consisting primarily of headcount reductions implemented during the second half of 2008 in response to the current difficult business environment. Expenditures for all types of advertising and marketing costs were reduced in 2009 as part of our corporate wide cost control efforts in a challenging economy. Zebras reduced sales volume also resulted in lower commissions. Research and Development Costs The development of new products and enhancement of existing products are important to Zebras business and growth prospects. To maintain and build our product pipeline, we continue to make investments in research and development. In 2009 we introduced an updated two inch plus light duty printer and a new Xi4 high-performance printer. In the fourth quarter of 2009 we began shipping our first re-transfer card printer which has photo-quality imaging for security and government use. We also introduced innovative new IQ color labels which enables customers to print spot colors on predetermined areas of a label using any Zebra thermal label printer. This breakthrough product enhances readability, increases business efficiency and improves safety. In 2009, Zebra Enterprise Solutions introduced new gate, vessel, billing, automation, analytics and monitoring capabilities in its TOS solution, support for rack tracking, RFID support, and goods return for our manufacturing solution along with a new tag form factor for parts replenishment and a new Ethernet enabled proximity exciter. ZES also released enhancements to its equipment fleet management solution to provide added visibility for operator safety and equipment maintenance. Quarterly product development expenses fluctuate widely depending on the status of ongoing projects. We are committed to a long-term strategy of significant investment in product development. Research and development costs are summarized below (in thousands): Year Ended Increase/(Decrease) December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Payroll and benefit costs $ 63,323 $ 66,652 $ (3,329) Professional services expenses 5,165 7,144 (1,979) Project expenses 4,765 8,341 (3,576) Travel and entertainment expenses 1,867 2,445 (578) Other changes 11,270 11,218 52 Total research and development costs $ 86,390 $ 95,800 $ (9,410) 37 Table of Contents The decreases are primarily related to cost reductions taken in 2008 which decreased research and development costs for the full year of 2009. Expenditures in this area were reduced as part of our corporate wide cost control efforts in a challenging economy. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses are summarized below (in thousands): Year Ended Increase/(Decrease) December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Payroll and benefit costs $ 38,609 $ 40,394 $ (1,785) Professional services expenses 12,474 10,626 1,848 Travel and entertainment expenses 1,332 2,172 (840) Recruiting fees 216 2,888 (2,672) Depreciation expense 9,869 8,101 1,768 Gain/loss on sale of assets and equipment 810 (1,127) 1,937 Other changes 18,085 18,590 (505) Total general and administrative expenses $ 81,395 $ 81,644 $ (249) General and administrative expenses decreased due to a cost reduction program consisting primarily of headcount reductions implemented during the second half of 2008 in response to the current difficult business environment. Offsetting the previously mentioned cost reduction were increases in consulting expenses related to business improvement initiatives and depreciation related to a worldwide enterprise resource planning system implementation. Amortization of Intangible Assets Amortization of intangible assets decreased $8,109,000 during 2009 due to intangible asset write-downs in the fourth quarter of 2008. See Asset impairment charges below for more details. Litigation Settlement In 2008 Zebra received a litigation settlement related to our recent acquisition of WhereNet. See Note 20 for further information related to the litigation settlement. Asset Impairment Charges During the fourth quarter of 2008, we determined that certain impairment indicators existed related to identified intangible assets and conducted an additional impairment test of intangibles. Due to the deterioration of the economy and a significant reduction in the price of our stock, we determined that our goodwill and other intangible assets were impaired requiring total estimated impairment charges of $157,600,000 at December 31, 2008. Upon completion of a detailed second step impairment analysis we recorded a credit of $1,495,000 in the second quarter of 2009 to adjust a portion of our original goodwill impairment. In 2009, we also recorded an impairment charge for an intangible asset or $437,000. See Note 7 of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a more detailed discussion of the asset impairment charges. Exit, Restructuring and Integration Charges For 2009, exit and restructuring costs were $8,985,000 and integration costs were $3,206,000. For 2008, exit and restructuring costs were $16,650,000 and integration costs were $3,359,000. The reduction is due to the substantial completion of our production outsourcing. See Note 9 of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a more detailed discussion of the exit, restructuring and integration charges. 38 Table of Contents Other Income Zebras non-operating income and expense items are summarized in the following table (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Investment income (loss) $ 2,933 $ 1,281 Foreign exchange gain (loss) (45 ) 3,518 Other, net (1,167 ) (1,366 ) Total other income (loss) $ 1,721 $ 3,433 Rate of Return Analysis: Average cash and marketable securities balances $ 235,803 $ 253,033 Annualized rate of return 1.2% 0.5% Investment income for 2009 would have been $958,000 higher due to write-downs recorded in 2009 related to losses on equity investments. Investment income for 2008 would have been $7,271,000 higher due to losses related to the write-down of an auction rate security of $4,374,000 and a long term equity investment in the amount of $2,897,000 in 2008. Excluding these write-downs, investment income for 2009 would have been $3,891,000 compared to $8,552,000 in 2008. Excluding the 2008 write-downs, Zebras annualized rate of return would have been 3.4% for 2008, while the 2009 rate of return would have been 1.6%. The investment income for 2008 was higher due to interest rates being higher in 2008 and Zebras cash balances also being higher throughout 2008. Cash and marketable securities balances for 2009 have decreased compared to 2008 as a result of payments for acquisitions and for the repurchase of Zebra Class A common stock. Operating Income (Loss) The increase in operating income for 2009 over 2008 is the result of cost containment efforts, reduced exit, restructuring and integration costs and the impairment charge recorded in 2008. The operating loss for 2008 is the result of the impairment charges which totaled $157,600,000. See Note 7 of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a more detailed discussion of the asset impairment charges. Also significantly contributing to the operating loss in 2008 were exit, restructuring and integrations costs of $20,009,000, offset by the WhereNet litigation settlement of $5,302,000. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate for 2009 was 33.2%. The effective income tax rate for 2008 was not meaningful because a substantial portion of the impairment charges recorded in the fourth quarter of 2008 was not deductible for income tax purposes. 39 Table of Contents Business Groups Specialty Printing Group - Year to date (Amounts in thousands, except percentages) Year Ended Percent Change Percent of Net Sales - 2009 Percent of Net Sales - 2008 December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Net Sales Tangible products $ 688,057 $ 851,561 (19.2) 95.2 96.5 Service & software 34,499 30,898 11.7 4.8 3.5 Net sales 722,556 882,459 (18.1) 100.0 100.0 Cost of Sales Tangible products 392,298 439,471 (10.7) 54.3 49.8 Service & software 18,013 14,866 21.2 2.5 1.7 Cost of sales 410,311 454,337 (9.7) 56.8 51.5 Gross profit 312,245 428,122 (27.1) 43.2 48.5 Operating expenses 164,124 221,934 (26.0) 22.7 25.1 Operating income $ 148,121 $ 206,188 (28.2) 20.5 23.4 Specialty Printing Group Year to date Net sales for SPG decreased 18.1% for 2009 as compared to 2008, with comparable percentage declines in all regions, except for APAC which decreased modestly more than the other regions. New printer products (defined as printers released within 18 months prior to the end of the applicable fiscal period) accounted for 9.0% of printer sales during 2009, compared with 19.1% of printer sales for 2008. Our international SPG sales are denominated in multiple currencies, primarily the U.S. dollar, British pound and euro. This diversity causes our reported sales to be subject to fluctuations based on changes in currency rates. The stronger U.S. dollar to the euro and the pound had a negative impact of approximately $21,890,000, net of hedges, on sales during 2009 compared with 2008. We typically hedge a portion of anticipated euro-denominated sales to partially protect Zebra against exchange rate movements. For the year, this program resulted in a gain on hedges of $603,000. Gross profit margin for SPG was affected by unfavorable foreign currency rate movements, which decreased year to date gross profit versus 2008 gross profit by $16,745,000, net of hedges. Lower volume and a less favorable product mix reduced gross margins. Outsourcing of our manufacturing operations resulted in favorable improvement to gross margin in 2009. Lower overall operating expenses resulted from decreases in payroll costs, business development costs, recruiting and relocation costs, outside commissions, project costs, travel and entertainment expenses, and offsite meetings. Much of the decreased payroll and benefit costs were a result of lower staffing levels and cost reduction initiatives. Amortization of intangibles was reduced by $3,010,000 for 2009 as compared to 2008 due to asset write-downs taken in 2008. Printer unit volumes and average selling price information is summarized below: Year Ended December 31, Percent 2009 2008 Change Total printers shipped 850,230 972,478 (12.6) Average selling price of printers shipped $ 522 $ 603 (13.4) For 2009, unit volumes decreased in nearly all printer product lines compared to the same periods of 2008, with notable volume decreases in high-performance and midrange table top, partially offset by an increase in kiosk volumes. 40 Table of Contents Operating expenses for SPG are summarized below (in thousands): Year Ended Increase/(Decrease) December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Payroll and benefit costs $ 97,010 $ 115,461 $ (18,451) Business development 15,530 22,395 (6,865) Project expenses 4,411 6,609 (2,198) Travel & entertainment 5,416 7,198 (1,782) Sales meeting expenses 441 3,109 (2,668) Exit and restructuring costs 7,819 16,488 (8,669) Impairment charges 14,680 (14,680) Loss (gain) on sale of assets & equipment 802 (1,101) 1,903 Facility relocation costs 5 1,092 (1,087) Amortization expense 2,754 5,764 (3,010) Stock options 3,787 5,151 (1,364) Other changes 26,149 25,088 1,061 Total operating expenses $ 164,124 $ 221,934 $ (57,810) Lower operating expenses for 2009 compared to 2008 resulted from decreases in payroll costs primarily from lower staffing levels and reduced spending as part of a corporate wide initiative to reduce costs in a challenging economy. Exit and restructuring costs decreased in 2009 as compared to 2008 due to the reduction in activities associated with the transfer of our printer manufacturing to a third-party manufacturer and the closure in 2008 of our Warwick, Rhode Island, supplies manufacturing facility. Restructuring costs relate to organizational changes made in December 2008. Facility relocation costs relate to the move of our UK facility into a new location. Amortization of intangibles decreased due to impairments recorded in the fourth quarter of 2008. Impairment charges relate to the write-down of intellectual property from changes in valuations related to current economic conditions and the business outlook. The above reductions were partially offset by increases in general and administrative expenses for consulting and benefit costs in 2009. Zebra Enterprise Solutions - Year to date (Amounts in thousands, except percentages) Year Ended December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Percent Change Percent of Net Sales - 2009 Percent of Net Sales - 2008 Net Sales Tangible products $ 12,987 $ 20,025 (35.1 ) 16.0 21.2 Service & software 68,042 74,216 (8.3 ) 84.0 78.8 Net sales 81,029 94,241 (14.0 ) 100.0 100.0 Cost of Sales Tangible products 9,429 12,737 (26.0 ) 11.6 13.5 Service & software 23,124 30,321 (23.7 ) 28.5 32.2 Cost of sales 32,553 43,058 (24.4 ) 40.2 45.7 Gross profit 48,476 51,183 (5.3 ) 59.8 54.3 Operating expenses 63,730 217,149 (70.7 ) 78.7 230.4 Operating loss $ (15,254 ) $ (165,966 ) (90.8 ) (18.9 ) (176.1 ) Zebra Enterprise Solutions Year to date ZES sales decreased 14.0% for 2009 as compared to 2008 primarily due to the severely challenging economic conditions of ZES key markets, namely maritime and automotive markets. Sales declined in hardware and services but remained steady in license fees and maintenance support. Margins improved in services provided to customers due to reduced service costs. 41 Table of Contents ZES operating expenses are summarized below (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Increase/(Decrease) Payroll and benefit costs $ 37,576 $ 36,841 $ 735 Outside professional services 1,696 5,869 (4,173) Research & development 149 1,827 (1,678) Travel & entertainment 2,569 4,510 (1,941) Office services and supplies 599 (1,052) 1,651 Offsite meetings (16) 673 (689) Building allocation (1,696) (572) (1,124) Bad debt expense (74) 937 (1,011) Exit and restructuring 1,004 1,004 ZES integration 3,206 3,359 (153) Impairment charges (1,059) 142,920 (143,979) Amortization expense 7,712 12,811 (5,099) WhereNet escrow claim net settlement (5,302) 5,302 Other changes 12,064 14,328 (2,264) Total increase (decrease) $ 63,730 $ 217,149 $ (153,419) ZES operating expenses for 2009 were lower than the 2008 level due to lower staffing levels which were offset by increased benefit costs and contract employees. Other operating expenses reductions resulted from cost containment efforts, collection of previously reserved accounts, reduced outside service costs, and lower amortization of intangibles due to asset write-downs in the fourth quarter of 2008. Amortization of intangibles was reduced by $5,099,000 for 2009 as compared to 2008. Included in operating expenses for 2008 is a $5,302,000 expense reduction related to a payment received from an escrow claim settlement related to our prior acquisition of WhereNet. See Note 20 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information related to the WhereNet escrow claim net settlement and Note 7 for further information related to the impairment charges. 42 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Management prepared the consolidated financial statements of Zebra under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These principles require the use of estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions we used are reasonable, based upon the information available. Our estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts in our financial statements. The following accounting policies comprise those that we believe are the most critical in understanding and evaluating Zebras reported financial results. Revenue Recognition Product revenue is recognized once four criteria are met: (1) we have persuasive evidence that an arrangement exits; (2) delivery has occurred and title has passed to the customer, which happens at the point of shipment (except in Asia where the terms are FOB destination) provided that no significant obligations remain; (3) the price is fixed and determinable; and (4) collectability is reasonably assured. Other items that affect our revenue recognition include: Customer returns Customers have the right to return products that do not function properly within a limited time after delivery. We monitor and track product returns and record a provision for the estimated future returns based on historical experience and any notification received of pending returns. Returns have historically been within expectations and the provisions established, but Zebra cannot guarantee that it will continue to experience return rates consistent with historical patterns. Historically, our product returns have not been significant. However, if a significant issue should arise, it could have a material impact on our financial statements. Growth Rebates Some of our channel program partners are offered incentive rebates based on the attainment of specific growth targets related to products they purchase from us over a quarter or year. These rebates are recorded as a reduction to revenue. Each quarter, we estimate the amount of outstanding rebates and establish a reserve for them based on shipment history. Historically, actual rebates have been in line with our estimates. Price Protection Some of our customers are offered price protection by Zebra as an incentive to carry inventory of our product. These price protection plans provide that if we lower prices, we will credit them for the price decrease on inventory they hold. We estimate future payments under price protection programs quarterly and establish a reserve, which is charged against revenue. Our customers typically carry limited amounts of inventory, and Zebra infrequently lowers prices on current products. As a result, the amounts paid under these plans have been minimal. Software Revenue We sell four types of software and record revenue as follows: ZES has fixed fee software implementation projects , for which we use the percentage of completion method for revenue recognition. Under this method of accounting, we recognize revenue based on the ratio of costs incurred to total estimated costs. If increases in projected costs-to-complete are sufficient to create a loss contract, the entire estimated loss is charged to operations in the period the loss first becomes known. Our printers contain embedded firmware, which is part of the hardware purchase. We consider the sale of this firmware to be incidental to the sale of the printer and do not attribute any revenue to it. We sell a limited amount of prepackaged, or off-the-shelf, software for the creation of bar code labels using our printers. There is no customization required to use this software, and we have no post-shipment obligations on the software. Revenue is recognized at the time this prepackaged software is shipped. We sometimes provide custom software as part of a printer installation project. We bill custom software development services separate from the related hardware. Revenue related to custom software is recognized once the custom software development services have been completed and accepted by the customer. 43 Table of Contents We recognize license revenue under Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 985 (formerly Statement of Position No. 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition , as amended by Statement of Position No. 98-9, Software Revenue Recognition, With Respect to Certain Transactions ), when (1) a signed contract is obtained; (2) delivery of the product has occurred; (3) the license fee is fixed or determinable; and (4) collection is probable. Maintenance and Support Agreements We enter into post-contract maintenance and support agreements. Revenues are recognized ratably over the service period and the cost of providing these services is expensed as incurred. Shipping and Handling We charge our customers for shipping and handling services based upon our internal price list for these items. The amounts billed to customers are recorded as revenue when the product ships. Any costs incurred related to these services are included in cost of sales. Zebra enters into sales transactions that include more than one product type. This bundle of products might include printers, current or future supplies, and services. When this type of transaction occurs, we allocate the purchase price to each product type based on the fair value of the individual products determined by vendor specific objective evidence. The revenue for each individual product is then recognized when the recognition criteria for that product is fully met. Investments and Marketable Securities Investments and marketable securities at December 31, 2010, consisted of the following: U.S. government and agency securities 10.1 % Obligations of government sponsored enterprises (1) 2.7 % State and municipal bonds 63.7 % Corporate securities 23.5 % (1) Includes investments in notes issued by the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Bank. We classify our debt and marketable equity securities in one of three categories: trading, available-for-sale or held-to-maturity. Trading securities are bought and held principally for the purpose of selling them in the near term. Held-to-maturity securities are those debt securities that Zebra has the ability and intent to hold until maturity. All securities not included in trading or held-to-maturity are classified as available-for-sale. Trading and available-for-sale securities are recorded at fair value. Held-to-maturity securities are recorded at amortized cost, adjusted for the amortization or accretion of discounts or premiums. Unrealized holding gains and losses on trading securities are included in earnings. Unrealized holding gains and losses, net of the related tax effect, on available-for-sale securities are excluded from earnings and are reported as a separate component of stockholders equity until realized. As of December 31, 2010, Zebras investments in marketable debt securities are classified as available-for-sale. In addition, as of December 31, 2010, all of our investments in marketable debt securities with maturities greater than one year are classified as long-term investments on the balance sheet due to our ability to hold them until maturity. See Note 3 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K for the fair value discussion of auction rate security investment valuations. Accounts Receivable We have standardized credit granting and review policies and procedures for all customer accounts, including: Credit reviews of all new customer accounts, Ongoing credit evaluations of current customers, Credit limits and payment terms based on available credit information, Adjustments to credit limits based upon payment history and the customers current credit worthiness, An active collection effort by regional credit functions, reporting directly to the corporate financial officers, and Limited credit insurance on the majority of our international revenues. 44 Table of Contents We reserve for estimated credit losses based upon historical experience and specific customer collection issues. Over the last three years, accounts receivable reserves varied from 1.3% to 3.0% of total accounts receivable. Accounts receivable reserves as of December 31, 2010, were $2,161,000, or 1.4% of the balance due. We believe this reserve level is appropriate considering the quality of the portfolio as of December 31, 2010. While credit losses have historically been within expectations and the provisions established, we cannot guarantee that our credit loss experience will continue to be consistent with historical experience. Inventories We value our inventories at the lower of the actual cost to purchase or manufacture using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method, or the current estimated market value. We review inventory quantities on hand and record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on forecasts of product demand and production requirements for the subsequent twelve months. Over the last three years, our inventory reserves have ranged from 6.8% to 11.0% of gross inventory. As of December 31, 2010, inventory reserves were $9,837,000, or 8.0% of gross inventory. We believe this reserve level is appropriate considering the quantities and quality of the inventories as of December 31, 2010. Valuation of Goodwill We test the impairment of goodwill each year or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We completed our annual assessment during June 2010 and determined that our goodwill was not impaired as of the end of May 2010. Goodwill of a reporting unit should be tested for impairment between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. Examples of such events or circumstances include: Significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate, Adverse action or assessment by a regulator, Unanticipated competition, Loss of key personnel, More-likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or otherwise disposed of, Testing for recoverability under ASC 360 (formerly SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets ) of a significant asset group within a reporting unit, Recognition of a goodwill impairment loss in the financial statement of a subsidiary that is a component of a reporting unit, or Allocation of a portion of goodwill to a business to be disposed of. Due to the deterioration of the economy in 2008 and a significant reduction in the price of our stock, we performed an interim test of our goodwill in the fourth quarter of 2008 and determined that the goodwill associated with our ZES segment was impaired. See Note 7 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of this impairment charge. If we believe that one or more of the above indicators of impairment have occurred, we perform an impairment test. The performance of the test involves a two-step process. The first step of the impairment test involves comparing the fair values of the applicable reporting units with their aggregate carrying values, including goodwill. We generally determine the fair value of our reporting units using three valuation methods: Income Approach Discounted Cash Flow Analysis, Market Approach Guideline Public Company Method, and Market Approach Comparative Transactions Method. Under the Income Approach Discounted Cash Flow Analysis the key assumptions consider sales, cost of sales and operating expenses projected through the year 2015. These assumptions were determined by management utilizing our internal operating plan and assuming growth rates for revenues and operating expenses, and margin assumptions. The fourth key assumption under this approach is the discount rate which is determined by looking at current risk-free rates of capital, current market interest rates and the evaluation of risk premium relevant to the business segment. If our assumptions relative to growth rates were to change or were incorrect, our fair value calculation may change which could result in impairment. The companys risk factors are discussed under Item 1A of this Form 10-K. 45 Table of Contents Under the Market Approach Guideline Company Method we identified 12 publicly traded companies, including Zebra, which we believe have significant relevant similarities. For these 12 companies we calculated the mean ratio of invested capital to revenues and invested capital to EBITDA. Similar to the Income approach discussed above, sales, cost of sales, operating expenses and their respective growth rates were the key assumptions utilized. The market prices of Zebra and other guideline company shares are key assumptions. If these market prices increase, the estimated market value would increase. If the market prices decrease, the estimated market value would decrease. Under the Market Approach Comparative Transactions Method we looked at 22 market based transactions for companies that have similarities to our business segment, including similarities to one or more of the business lines, markets, growth prospects, margins and size. We calculated mean revenue and EBITDA multiples for the selected transactions. These multiples were applied to forecasted Zebra results for that segment to estimate market value. The key assumptions and impact to changes to those assumptions would be similar to those assumptions under the Income Approach Discounted Cash Flow Analysis and the Market Approach Guideline Company Method. The results of these three methods are weighted based upon managements determination with more weight attached to the Income approach because it considers anticipated future financial performance. The Market approaches are based upon historical and current economic conditions which might not reflect the long term prospects or opportunities for our business segment being evaluated. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds the reporting units fair value, we perform the second step of the goodwill impairment test to determine the amount of impairment loss. The second step of the goodwill impairment test involves comparing the implied fair value of the affected reporting units goodwill with the carrying value of that goodwill. Due to the deterioration of the economy and a significant reduction in the price of our stock, we determined that our goodwill from our 2007 and 2008 ZES acquisitions was impaired requiring total estimated goodwill impairment charges of $113,679,000 at December 31, 2008. Upon completion of a detailed second step impairment analysis we recorded a credit of $1,495,000 in the second quarter of 2009 to adjust a portion of the original estimated goodwill impairment for ZES. Valuation of Long-Lived and Other Intangible Assets We evaluate the impairment of identifiable intangibles and other long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors considered that may trigger an impairment review consist of: Significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results, Significant changes in the manner of use of the acquired assets or the strategy for the overall business, Significant negative industry or economic trends, Significant decline in Zebras stock price for a sustained period, and Significant decline in market capitalization relative to net book value. If we believe that one or more of the above indicators of impairment have occurred and the undiscounted cash flow test has failed in the case of amortizable assets, we measure impairment based on projected discounted cash flows using a discount rate that incorporates the risk inherent in the cash flows. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we determined that certain impairment indicators related to identified intangible assets existed and conducted an additional impairment test of intangibles. Due to the deterioration of the economy and a significant reduction in the price of our stock, we determined that our other intangible assets consisting of our 2007 and 2008 ZES acquisitions and intellectual property were impaired requiring total estimated impairment charges of $43,921,000 at December 31, 2008. The intangible asset impairment charges in our SPG segment were related primarily to radio frequency identification patents and patent rights. The intangible asset impairment charges in our ZES segment were related to customer relationships, technology, third party technology licenses and non-competition agreements. We recorded an impairment charge to a ZES intangible asset of $437,000 in 2009. No impairment charges were recorded in 2010. Net intangible assets, long-lived assets and goodwill amounted to $290,622,000 as of December 31, 2010. Income Taxes On January 1, 2007, we adopted ASC 740 (formerly FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 ). According to ASC 740, we identified, evaluated, and measured the amount of income tax benefits to be recognized for all of our income tax positions. During 2008, we recognized an increase of approximately $4,000,000 in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits related to an acquisition. 46 Table of Contents A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows (in thousands): Balance at January 1, 2008 $ Additions based on tax positions related to 2008 4,000 Additions based on tax positions related to 2009 Additions based on tax positions related to 2010 Balance at December 31, 2010 $ 4,000 Zebras continuing practice is to recognize interest and penalties related to income tax matters as part of income tax expense. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, we did not accrue any interest or penalties into income tax expense. Zebra has concluded all U.S. federal income tax audits for years through 2006. The tax years 2006 through 2009 remain open to examination by multiple state taxing jurisdictions. Tax authorities in the United Kingdom have completed income tax audits for tax years through 2006. Included in deferred tax assets are amounts related to federal and state net operating losses that resulted from our acquisition of WhereNet Corp. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $21,932,000 of federal net operating loss carryforwards available to offset future taxable income which expire in 2022 through 2027. As of December 31, 2010, we also had approximately $27,134,000 of state net operating loss carryforwards which expire in 2012 through 2020. Zebras intention is to utilize these net operating loss carryforwards to offset future income tax expense. Under the United States Tax Reform Act of 1986, the amounts of benefits from net operating loss carryforwards may be impaired or limited in certain circumstances, including significant changes in ownership interests. In addition, as of December 31, 2010 Zebra had approximately $8,832,000 of foreign net operating loss carryforwards which currently can be carried forward indefinitely. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2010 was 29.8%. Contingencies We record estimated liabilities related to contingencies based on our estimates of the probable outcomes. Quarterly, we assess the potential liability related to pending litigation, tax audits and other contingencies and confirm or revise estimates and reserves as appropriate. For further information regarding material pending legal proceedings, see Note 11 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Form 10-K. Equity-Based Compensation As of December 31, 2010, Zebra had an active equity-based compensation plan and a stock purchase plan available for future grants. We accounted for these plans in accordance with ASC 505 and ASC 718 (formerly SFAS No. 123(R), Share-Based Payments ). Zebra recognizes compensation costs using the straight-line method over the vesting period of 1 month to 5 years. See Notes 2 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Form 10-K for further information. 47 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources (Amounts in thousands, except percentages): Year Ended Rate of Return Analysis: December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Average cash and marketable securities balances $ 253,310 $ 235,803 Annualized rate of return 1.1 % 1.2 % Average cash and marketable securities balances for the year of 2010 increased compared to 2009 as a result of increased cash provided by operations in 2010 versus 2009. As of December 31, 2010, Zebra had $259,899,000 in cash, restricted cash, investments and marketable securities, compared with $246,721,000 at December 31, 2009. Factors affecting cash and investment balances during 2010 include the following (changes below include the impact of foreign currency): Operations provided cash in the amount of $140,459,000, primarily from net income. Accounts receivable increased $4,603,000 because of higher sales. Inventories increased $33,884,000 due to increases in raw materials and finished goods. Accounts payable increased $6,619,000, due to the timing of vendor payments and increased purchasing as a result of higher demand. Accrued liabilities increased $15,386,000, due to increased bonus and benefit accruals. Taxes payable increased $9,272,000 due to increased earnings. Purchases of property and equipment totaled $30,721,000. Net sales of investments totaled $102,485,000. Purchases of treasury shares totaled $102,091,000. Zebra made open market repurchases of our shares under authorizations of the Board of Directors announced October 27, 2008 and August 3, 2010. Stock option exercises and purchases under the stock purchase plan contributed $8,975,000. Management believes that existing capital resources and funds generated from operations are sufficient to finance anticipated capital requirements. Contractual Obligations Zebras contractual obligations as of December 31, 2010 were (in thousands): Payments due by period Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years Operating lease obligations $ 48,017 $ 12,269 $ 19,354 $ 7,908 $ 8,486 Deferred compensation liability 3,427 3,427 Deferred revenue 33,521 26,757 6,764 Purchase obligations 69,742 69,742 Total $ 154,707 $ 108,768 $ 26,118 $ 7,908 $ 11,913 Purchase obligations are for purchases made in the normal course of business to meet operational requirements, primarily raw materials. 48 Table of Contents On August 14, 2008, Zebra entered into a revolving credit agreement for a five-year $100 million revolving credit facility. The funds under this credit agreement are available for general corporate purposes of Zebra and its subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business and other purposes permitted by the agreement. As of December 31, 2010, we had established letters of credit amounting to $3,858,000, which reduce the funds available for borrowing under the agreement. No amounts were outstanding under the credit agreement as of December 31, 2010. On January 28, 2011, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with Cargotec Corporation to sell all of our interest in the Navis business and MTS for approximately $190 million in cash. We are retaining the real time location, tags and readers portion of the WhereNet business, along with the WhereNet applications that are sold into non-maritime industries. The sale is expected to close in the first quarter of 2011. Management believes that existing capital resources and funds generated from operations are sufficient to finance anticipated capital requirements. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In October 2009, the FASB issued update 2009-13, ASC 605, Revenue Recognition: Multiple Deliverable Revenue Arrangements-a consensus of the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force . The revised guidance provides for two significant changes to existing multiple element arrangement guidance. The first relates to the determination of when the individual deliverables included in a multiple-element arrangement may be treated as separate units of accounting. This change is significant as it will likely result in the requirement to separate more deliverables within an arrangement, ultimately leading to less revenue deferral. The second change modifies the manner in which the transaction consideration is allocated across the separately identifiable deliverables. These changes are likely to result in earlier recognition of revenue for multiple-element arrangements than under previous guidance. This standard is effective prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010. This standard did not have a material effect upon our consolidated financial statements. In October 2009, the FASB issued update 2009-14, ASC 985, Software: Certain Revenue Arrangements That Include Software Elements a consensus of the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force . This updated guidance is expected to significantly affect how entities account for revenue arrangements that contain both hardware and software elements. This standard is effective prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010. This standard did not have a material effect upon our consolidated financial statements. In January 2010, the FASB issued update 2010-06, ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures: Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements . This updated guidance requires new disclosures related to transfers in and out of Levels 1 and 2. The standard also provides guidance on the disclosures related to Level 3 activities. In addition, existing disclosures related to disaggregation levels and disclosures about inputs and valuation techniques are clarified. This standard is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2009. This standard did not have a material effect upon our consolidated financial statements. In December 2010, the FASB issued update 2010-28, ASC 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other: When to Perfrom Step 2 of the Goodwill Impairment Test for Reporting Units with Zero or Negative Carrying Amounts (a consensus of the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force). This updated guidance requires entities with reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts to perform and additional test to determine if goodwill has been impaired and to calculate the amount of impairment (Step 2). This standard is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2010. This standard will not have a material effect upon our consolidated financial statements. In December 2010, the FASB issued update 2010-29, ASC 805, Business Combinations: Disclosure of Supplementary Pro Forma Information for Business Combinations (a consensus of the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force). The standard provides updated guidance on the disclosures related to business combinations. This standard is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2010. This standard will not have a material effect upon our consolidated financial statements. 49 Table of Contents