Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, because they could have a material adverse effect on Zebras business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and growth prospects. We have organized the risk factors into three sections: (1) Risks related to our business generally, (2) Risks related to the Acquisition and Integration of Enterprise, and (3) Risks related to the Indebtedness. 12 Table of Contents Risks related to our business Zebra has substantial operations outside the United States and sells a significant portion of its products internationally and purchases important components, including final products, from foreign suppliers. Zebra has substantial operations outside of the United States which create significant risks. In addition, Zebra sells a substantial amount of its products to customers outside of the United States. Shipments to international customers are expected to continue to account for a material portion of net sales. Zebra also expects to continue the use of third-party contract manufacturing services with non-US production and assembly operations for our products. Risks associated with operations, sales and purchases outside the United States include: Fluctuating foreign currency rates could restrict sales or increase costs of purchasing in foreign countries; Volatility in foreign credit markets may affect the financial well-being of our customers and suppliers; Adverse changes in, or uncertainty of, local business laws or practices, including the following: Foreign governments may impose burdensome tariffs, quotas, taxes, trade barriers or capital flow restrictions; Restrictions on the export or import of technology may reduce or eliminate the ability to sell in or purchase from certain markets; Political and economic instability may reduce demand for our products or put our foreign assets at risk; Potentially limited intellectual property protection in certain countries may limit recourse against infringing on our products or cause Zebra to refrain from selling in certain geographic territories; Staffing may be difficult and turnover higher at international operations; A government controlled exchange rate and limitations on the convertibility of currencies, including the the Chinese yuan; Transportation delays and customs related delays that may affect production and distribution of Zebras products; and Effectively managing and overseeing operations that are distant and remote from corporate headquarters may be difficult. We also are subject to risks that our operations could be conducted by our employees, contractors, representatives or agents in ways that violate the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act or other similar anti-corruption laws. While we have policies and procedures to comply with these laws, our employees, contractors, representatives and agents may take actions that violate our policies. Any such violations could have a negative impact on our business. Moreover, we face risks that our anti-corruption policies and procedures may be violated by third-party sales representatives or other third-parties that help sell our products or provide other solutions and services, because such representatives or agents are not our employees and it may be more difficult to oversee their conduct. Zebra may not be able to continue to develop products to address user needs effectively in an industry characterized by ongoing change. To be successful, Zebra must adapt to rapidly changing technological and application needs by continually improving its products as well as introducing new products and services to address user demands. Zebras industry is characterized by: Evolving industry standards, Frequent new product and service introductions, Evolving distribution channels, Increasing demand for customized product and software solutions, Changing customer demands, and Changing security protocols. Future success will depend on Zebras ability to effectively and economically adapt in this evolving environment. Zebra could incur substantial costs if it has to modify its business to adapt to these changes, and may even be unable to adapt to these changes. 13 Table of Contents Zebra competes in a competitive industry, which may become more competitive. Competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technology and changes in customer requirements. Zebra faces significant competition in developing and selling its products and solutions. Some competitors have substantial marketing, financial, development and personnel resources. To remain competitive, Zebra believes it must continue to effectively and economically provide: Technologically advanced systems that satisfy user demands, Superior customer service, High levels of quality and reliability, and Dependable and efficient distribution networks. Zebra cannot assure it will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. Increased competition in mobile computing products, data capture products, printers, WLAN products and solutions or supplies may result in price reductions, lower gross profit margins and loss of market share, and could require increased spending on research and development, sales and marketing and customer support. Some competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships with suppliers or companies that produce complementary products, which may create additional pressures on Zebras competitive position in the marketplace. Zebra sources some of its component parts from sole source suppliers. A disruption in the supply of such component parts could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demand and negatively affect our financial results. Zebra is vulnerable to the potential difficulties associated with the increase in the complexity of its business . Zebra has grown rapidly over the last several years through the Acquisition and domestic and international growth. This growth has caused increased complexities in the business. We believe our future success depends in part on our ability to manage our growth and increased complexities of our business and the demands from increased responsibility. The following factors could present difficulties to Zebra: Compliance with evolving laws and regulations in multiple international jurisdictions; Managing our distribution channel partners; Managing our contract manufacturing and supply chain; Manufacturing an increased number of products; Increased administrative and operational burden; Maintaining and improving information technology infrastructure to support growth; Increased logistical problems common to complex, expansive operations; and Increasing international operations. Inability to consummate future acquisitions at appropriate prices could negatively impact our growth rate and stock price. Zebras ability to grow revenues, earnings and cash flow depends in part upon our ability to identify and successfully acquire and integrate businesses at appropriate prices and to realize anticipated synergies. Acquisitions can be difficult to identify and consummate due to competition among prospective buyers and the need to satisfy applicable closing conditions and obtain antitrust and other regulatory approval on acceptable terms. Zebra could encounter difficulties in any acquisition it undertakes, including unanticipated integration problems and business disruption. Acquisitions could also dilute stockholder value and adversely affect operating results. Zebra may acquire or make investments in other businesses, technologies, services or products. An acquisition may present business issues which are new to Zebra. The process of integrating any acquired business, technology, service or product into our operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Integration of an acquired company also may consume considerable management time and attention, which could otherwise be available for ongoing operations and the further development of our existing business. The expected benefits of any acquisition may not be realized. Acquisitions also may involve a number of risks, including: Difficulties and uncertainties in retaining the customers or other business relationships from the acquired entities; The loss of key employees of acquired entities; The ability of acquired entities to fulfill their customers obligations; The discovery of unanticipated issues or liabilities; Pre-closing and post-closing acquisition-related earnings charges could adversely impact operating results in any given period, and the impact may be substantially different from period to period; 14 Table of Contents The failure of acquired entities to meet or exceed expected returns could result in impairment of goodwill or intangible assets acquired; and The acquired entities ability to implement internal controls and accounting systems necessary to be compliant with requirements applicable to public companies subject to SEC reporting. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities. Infringement by Zebra or Zebra suppliers on the proprietary rights of others could put Zebra at a competitive disadvantage, and any related litigation could be time consuming and costly. Third parties may claim that Zebra or Zebras suppliers violated their intellectual property rights. To the extent of a violation of a third-partys patent or other intellectual property right, Zebra may be prevented from operating its business as planned, and may be required to pay damages, to obtain a license, if available, or to use a non-infringing method, if possible, to accomplish its objectives. Any of these claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and divert the attention of key personnel. If such claims are successful, they could result in costly judgments or settlements. Also, as new technologies emerge the intellectual property rights of parties in such technologies can be uncertain. As a result, Zebras products involving such technologies may have higher risk of claims of infringement of the intellectual proprietary rights of third parties. The inability to protect intellectual property could harm Zebras reputation, and its competitive position may be materially damaged. Zebras intellectual property is valuable and provides Zebra with certain competitive advantages. Zebra uses copyrights, patents, trademarks, trade secrets and contracts to protect these proprietary rights. Despite these precautions, third parties may be able to copy or reproduce aspects of Zebras intellectual property and its products or, without authorization, to misappropriate and use information which Zebra regards as its trade secrets. Additionally, the intellectual property rights Zebra obtains may not be sufficient to provide it with a competitive advantage and may be successfully challenged, invalidated, circumvented, or infringed. In any infringement litigation that Zebra may undertake to protect its intellectual property, any award of monetary damages may be unlikely or very difficult to obtain, and any such award Zebra may receive may not be commercially valuable. Furthermore, efforts to enforce or protect Zebras proprietary rights may be ineffective and could result in the invalidation or narrowing of the scope of Zebras intellectual property and its incurring substantial litigation costs, and, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of Zebras confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. Some aspects of Zebras business and services also rely on technologies, software and content developed by or licensed from third parties, and Zebra may not be able to maintain its relationships with such third parties or enter into similar relationships in the future on reasonable terms or at all. We currently use third party and/or open source operating systems and associated application ecosystems in certain of our mobile computing products. Such parties ceasing continued development of the operating system or restricting our access to such operating system could adversely impact our business and financial results. We currently use third-party and/or open source operating systems and associated application ecosystems in certain of our mobile computing products. As a result, we are dependent on third-parties continued development of operating systems, software application ecosystem infrastructures and such third-parties approval of our implementations of their operating system and associated applications. If such parties cease to continue development or support of such operating systems or restrict our access to such operating systems, we would be required to change our strategy for such devices. As a result, our financial results could be negatively impacted because a resulting shift away from the operating systems we currently use and the associated applications ecosystem could be costly and difficult. A strategy shift could increase the burden of development on Zebra and potentially create a gap in our portfolio for a period of time, which could competitively disadvantage Zebra. Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt business operations. Like many companies, Zebra continually strives to meet industry information security standards relevant to our business. We regularly perform vulnerability assessments, remediate vulnerabilities, review log/access, perform system maintenance, manage network perimeter protection and implement and manage disaster recovery testing. A cyber-attack that breaches our external perimeter may lead to a material disruption of our core business systems and/or lead to the loss or corruption of confidential business information that could result in an adverse business impact, as well as, possible damage to the Zebra brand. This could also lead to a public disclosure or theft of private intellectual property and a possible loss of customer confidence. While we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, these types of threats and incidents, there have been no material incidents incurred to-date at Zebra. If Zebras core business operations, or that of one of our third-party service providers, were to be breached, this could affect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our systems and data. While we continue to perform security due diligence, there is always the possibility of a significant breach effecting the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our systems and/or data. 15 Table of Contents Zebra products that are deployed in customer environments also have the possibility of being breached, which could result in damage to a customers confidentiality, integrity and availability of the customers data and systems. It is possible that such a breach could result in delays in, or loss of market acceptance of, Zebras products and services; diversion of our resources; injury to our reputation; increase service and warranty expenses and payment of damages. Zebra may incur liabilities as a result of product failures due to actual or apparent design or manufacturing defects . Zebra may be subject to product liability claims, which could include claims for property or economic damage or personal injury, in the event our products present actual or apparent design or manufacturing defects. Such design or manufacturing defects may occur not only in Zebras own designed products but also in components provided by third party suppliers. Zebra generally has insurance protection against property damage and personal injury liabilities and also seeks to limit such risk through product design, manufacturing quality control processes, product testing and contractual indemnification from suppliers. However, due to the large and growing size of Zebras installed product base, a design or manufacturing defect involving this large installed product base could result in product recalls or customer service costs that could have material adverse effects on Zebras financial results. Defects or errors in Zebras software products could harm its reputation, result in significant cost to Zebra and impair Zebras ability to market such products. Zebras software may contain undetected errors, defects or bugs. Although Zebra has not suffered significant harm from any errors, defects or bugs to date, we may discover significant errors, defects or bugs in the future that we may not be able to correct or correct in a timely manner. It is possible that errors, defects or bugs will be found in Zebras existing or future software products and related services with the possible results of delays in, or loss of market acceptance of, Zebras products and services, diversion of our resources, injury to our reputation, increased service and warranty expenses and payment of damages. Zebra depends on the ongoing service of its senior management and ability to attract and retain other key personnel. The future success of Zebra is substantially dependent on the continued service and continuing contributions of senior management and other key personnel. The ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees is important to Zebras long-term success. Competition for skill sets in certain functions within our industry is intense, and Zebra may be unable to retain key employees or attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified employees in the future. Any disruption in the service of senior management or our ability to attract and retain key personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Terrorist attacks or war could lead to further economic instability and adversely affect Zebras stock price, operations, and profitability. The terrorist attacks that occurred in the United States on September 11, 2001 caused major instability in the U.S. and other financial markets. The possibility of further acts of terrorism and current and future war risks could have a similar impact. Any such attacks could, among other things, cause further instability in financial markets and could directly, or indirectly through reduced demand, negatively affect Zebras facilities and operations or those of its customers or suppliers. Taxing authority challenges may lead to tax payments exceeding current reserves. Zebra is subject to ongoing tax examinations in various jurisdictions. As a result, we may record incremental tax expense based on expected outcomes of such matters. In addition, we may adjust previously reported tax reserves based on expected results of these examinations. Such adjustments could result in an increase or decrease to Zebras effective tax rate. Future changes in tax law in various jurisdictions around the world and income tax holidays could have a material impact on Zebras effective tax rate, foreign rate differential, future income tax expense and cash flows. Forecasting our estimated annual effective tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty, and there may be material differences between our forecasted and actual tax rates. Forecasts of our income tax position and effective tax rate are complex, subject to uncertainty and periodic updates because our income tax position for each year combines the effects of a mix of profits earned and losses incurred by us in various tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates, as well as changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the impact of various accounting rules and changes to these rules and tax laws, the results of examinations by various tax authorities, and the impact of any acquisition, business combination or other reorganization or financing transaction. 16 Table of Contents As a multinational corporation, we conduct our business in many countries and are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions. The taxation of our business is subject to the application of multiple and sometimes conflicting tax laws and regulations as well as multinational tax conventions. Our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic distribution of our worldwide earnings or losses, the tax regulations and tax holidays in each geographic region, the availability of tax credits and carry-forwards, and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. The application of tax laws and regulations is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment and uncertainty. Tax laws themselves are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation, and the evolution of regulations and court rulings. Consequently, taxing authorities may impose tax assessments or judgments against us that could materially impact our tax liability and/or our effective income tax rate. Economic conditions and financial market disruptions may adversely affect Zebras business and results of operations . Adverse economic conditions or reduced information technology spending may adversely impact our business. Financial markets throughout the world experienced extreme disruption from 2008 through 2009, resulting in historically high volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others, failure and potential failures of major financial institutions and unprecedented government support of financial institutions and corporations. A recurrence of these developments and a related general economic downturn could adversely affect Zebras business and financial condition through a reduction in demand for our products by our customers. If a slowdown were severe enough, it could require further impairment testing and write-downs of goodwill and other intangible assets. Cost reduction actions may be necessary and lead to restructuring charges. A tightening of financial credit could adversely affect our customers, suppliers, outsource manufacturers and channel partners (e.g., distributors and resellers) from obtaining adequate credit for the financing of significant purchases. Another economic downturn could also result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for Zebras products and services; negatively impact Zebras ability to collect its accounts receivable on a timely basis; result in additional reserves for uncollectible accounts receivable; and require additional reserves for inventory obsolescence. Higher volatility and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates for the U.S. dollar against currencies such as the euro, the British pound, the Chinese yuan , and the Brazilian real could negatively impact product sales, margins and cash flows. A natural disaster may cause supply disruptions that could adversely affect Zebras business and results of operations. As reported, a powerful earthquake centered off the northeastern coast of Japan on March 11, 2011, resulted in the loss of many lives, wide-spread damage to and destruction of property, disruption of electric power, and the release of radiation from a crippled nuclear power plant. This devastation disrupted the operations to varying degrees of companies with business activity in the affected region, including the business of Zebras suppliers. Other natural disasters may occur in the future and Zebra is not able to predict to what extent or duration any such disruptions will have on our ability to maintain ordinary business operations. The consequences of an unfortunate natural disaster may have a material adverse effect on Zebras business and results of operations. Zebra is exposed to risks under large, multi-year system and solutions and services contracts that may negatively impact its business. Zebra enters into large, multi-year system and solutions and services contracts with our customers. This exposes Zebra to risks, including among others: (i) technological risks, especially when the contracts involve new technology; (ii) financial risks, including the estimates inherent in projecting costs associated with large, long-term contracts and the related impact on operating results; (iii) cyber security risk, especially in managed services contracts with customers that process personal data; and (iv) political risk. Recovery of front loaded capital expenditures in long-term managed services contracts with customers is dependent on the continued viability of such customers. The insolvency of customers could result in a loss of anticipated future revenue attributable to that program or product, which could have an adverse impact on Zebras profitability. Zebra enters into fixed-price contracts that could subject it to losses in the event Zebra fails to properly estimate its costs. Zebra enters into a number of firm fixed-price contracts. If Zebras initial cost estimates are incorrect, Zebra can lose money on these contracts. Because many of these contracts involve new technologies and applications, require Zebra to engage subcontractors and can last multiple years, unforeseen events, such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in the price of raw materials, problems with Zebras subcontractors or suppliers and other cost overruns, can result in the contract pricing becoming less favorable or even unprofitable to Zebra and have an adverse impact on Zebras financial results. In addition, a significant increase in inflation rates could have an adverse impact on the profitability of longer-term contracts. Zebra utilizes the services of subcontractors to perform under many of its contracts and the inability of its subcontractors to perform in a timely and compliant manner could negatively impact Zebras performance obligations as the prime contractor. Zebra engages subcontractors on many of its contracts and as Zebra expands its global solutions and services business Zebras use of subcontractors has and will continue to increase. Zebras subcontractors may further subcontract performance and may supply third-party products and software. Zebra may have disputes with its subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor or its subcontractors and 17 Table of Contents the functionality, warranty and indemnities of products, software and services supplied by Zebras subcontractor. Zebra is not always successful in passing along customer requirements to its subcontractors, and thus in some cases may be required to absorb contractual risks from its customers without corresponding back-to-back coverage from Zebras subcontractor. Zebras subcontractors may not be able to acquire or maintain the quality of the materials, components, subsystems and services they supply, or secure preferred warranty and indemnity coverage from their suppliers which might result in greater product returns, service problems, warranty claims and costs and regulatory compliance issues and could harm Zebras business, financial condition and results of operations. Over the last several years we have outsourced portions of certain business operations like repair, distribution and engineering services and may outsource additional business operations which limits our control over these business operations and exposes us to additional risk as a result of the actions of our outsource partners. As we outsource more of our business operations we are not able to directly control these activities. Our outsource partners may not prioritize our business over that of their other customers and they may not meet our desired level of service, cost reductions or other metrics. In some cases their actions may result in our being found to be in violation of laws or regulations like import or export regulations. As many of our outsource partners operate outside of the U.S., our outsourcing activity exposes us to information security vulnerabilities and increases our global risks. In addition, we are exposed to the financial viability of our outsource partners. Once a business activity is outsourced we may be contractually prohibited from, or may not practically be able to, bring such activity back within the Company or move it to another outsource partner. The actions of our outsource partners could result in reputational damage to us and could negatively impact our financial results. Failure of Zebras suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers and representatives to use acceptable legal or ethical business practices could negatively impact our business. It is Zebras policy to require its suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers, and third-party sales representatives (TPSRs) to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices, environmental compliance, anti-corruption and trademark and copyright licensing. However, Zebra does not control their labor and other business practices. If one of Zebras suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers, or TPSRs violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are regarded as unethical, the shipment of finished products to Zebra could be interrupted, orders could be canceled, relationships could be terminated and Zebras reputation could be damaged. If one of Zebras suppliers or subcontractors fails to procure necessary license rights to trademarks, copyrights or patents, legal action could be taken against Zebra that could impact the salability of Zebras products and expose Zebra to financial obligations to a third-party. Any of these events could have a negative impact on Zebras sales and results of operations. Zebra relies on third-party dealers, distributors, and resellers to sell many of its products. In addition to Zebras own sales force, Zebra offers its products through a variety of third-party dealers, distributors and retailers. These third-parties may also market other products that compete with Zebras products. Failure of one or more of Zebras dealers, distributors or retailers to effectively promote Zebras products could affect its ability to bring products to market and have a negative impact on its results of operations. Some of these third-parties are smaller and more likely to be impacted by a significant decrease in available credit that could result from a weakness in the financial markets. If credit pressures or other financial difficulties result in insolvency for third-party dealers, distributors or retailers and we are unable to successfully transition end-customers to purchase our products from other third-parties or from Zebra directly, it may cause, and in some cases has caused, a negative impact on our financial results. Final assembly of certain of Zebras products is performed by third-party electronics manufacturers. Zebra is dependent on these third-party electronics manufacturers as a sole-source of supply for the manufacture of such products. A failure by such manufacturers to provide manufacturing services to Zebra as Zebra requires, or any disruption in such manufacturing services, may adversely affect Zebras business results. Because Zebra relies on these third-party electronics manufacturers to manufacture its products, Zebra may incur increased business continuity risks. Zebra is not able to exercise direct control over the assembly or related operations of certain of its products. If these third party manufacturers experience business difficulties or fail to meet Zebras manufacturing needs, then Zebra may be unable to satisfy customer product demands, lose sales and be unable to maintain customer relationships. Longer production lead times may result in shortages of certain products and inadequate inventories during periods of unanticipated higher demand. Without such third parties continuing to manufacture Zebras products, Zebra will have no other means of final assembly of certain of its products until Zebra is able to secure the manufacturing capability at another facility or develop an alternative manufacturing facility. This transition could be costly and time consuming. 18 Table of Contents Although Zebra carries business interruption insurance to cover lost sales and profits in an amount it considers adequate, in the event of supply disruption, this insurance does not cover all possible situations. In addition, the business interruption insurance would not compensate Zebra for the loss of opportunity and potential adverse impact, both short-term and long-term, on relations with our existing customers going forward. Zebras future operating results depend on its ability to purchase a sufficient amount of materials, parts and components, as well as services and software to meet the demands of its customers and any disruption to its suppliers or significant increase in the price of supplies could have a negative impact on its results of operations. Zebras ability to meet customers demands depends, in part, on its ability to timely obtain an adequate delivery of quality materials, parts and components, as well as services and software from its suppliers. In addition, certain supplies are available only from a single source or limited sources and Zebra may not be able to diversify sources in a timely manner. If demand for Zebras products or services increases from its current expectations or if suppliers are unable to meet Zebras demand for other reasons, including as a result of natural disasters or financial issues, Zebra could experience an interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies that could have a negative impact on its business. Zebra has experienced shortages in the past that have negatively impacted its results of operations and may experience such shortages in the future. In addition, credit constraints at Zebras suppliers could cause Zebra to accelerate payment of accounts payable by Zebra, impacting Zebras cash flow. In addition, Zebras current contractual arrangements with certain suppliers may be cancelled or not extended by such suppliers and, therefore, not afford Zebra with sufficient protection against a reduction or interruption in supplies. Moreover, in the event any of these suppliers breach their contracts with Zebra, Zebras legal remedies associated with such a breach may be insufficient to compensate Zebra for any damages it may suffer. The unfavorable outcome of any pending or future litigation, arbitration or administrative action could have a material adverse effect on Zebras financial condition or results of operations. From time to time Zebra is made a party to litigation, arbitration or administrative actions. Zebras financial results and reputation could be negatively impacted by unfavorable outcomes to any pending or future litigation or administrative actions, including those related to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act or other anti-corruption laws. There can be no assurances as to the favorable outcome of any litigation or administrative proceedings. In addition, it can be very costly to defend litigation or administrative proceedings and these costs could negatively impact Zebras financial results. It is important that Zebra is able to obtain many different types of insurance, and if Zebra is not able to obtain insurance or exhausts its coverage Zebra is forced to retain the risk. Zebra has many types of insurance coverage and is also self-insured for some risks and obligations. While the cost and availability of most insurance is stable, there are still certain types and levels of insurance that remain difficult to obtain, such as professional liability insurance, which is expensive to obtain for the amount of coverage often requested by certain customers. As Zebra grows its global solutions and services business, Zebra is being asked to obtain higher amounts of professional liability insurance, which could result in higher costs to do business. Natural disasters and certain risks arising from securities claims, professional liability and public liability are potential self-insured events that could negatively impact Zebras financial results. In addition, while Zebra maintains insurance for certain risks, the amount of its insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and Zebra may be forced to bear substantial costs from an accident, incident or claim. Zebra is subject to a wide range of product regulatory and safety, consumer, worker safety and environmental laws. Zebras operations and the products it manufactures and/or sells are subject to a wide range of product regulatory and safety, consumer, worker safety and environmental laws and regulations. Compliance with such existing or future laws and regulations could subject Zebra to future costs or liabilities, impact its production capabilities, constrict its ability to sell, expand or acquire facilities, restrict what products and services Zebra can offer, and generally impact its financial performance. Some of these laws are environmental and relate to the use, disposal, remediation, emission and discharge of, and exposure to hazardous substances. These laws often impose liability and can require parties to fund remedial studies or actions regardless of fault. Zebra continues to incur disposal costs and have ongoing remediation obligations. Environmental laws have tended to become more stringent over time and any new obligations under these laws could have a negative impact on Zebras operations or financial performance. Laws focused on: the energy efficiency of electronic products and accessories; recycling of both electronic products and packaging; reducing or eliminating certain hazardous substances in electronic products; and the transportation of batteries continue to expand significantly. Laws pertaining to accessibility features of electronic products, standardization of connectors and power supplies, the transportation of lithium-ion batteries and other aspects are also proliferating. There 19 Table of Contents are also demanding and rapidly changing laws around the globe related to issues such as product safety, radio interference, radio frequency radiation exposure, medical related functionality, and consumer and social mandates pertaining to use of wireless or electronic equipment. These laws, and changes to these laws, could have a substantial impact on whether Zebra can offer certain products, solutions and services, on product costs, and on what capabilities and characteristics Zebras products or services can or must include. These laws impact Zebras products and negatively affect Zebras ability to manufacture and sell products competitively. Zebra expects these trends to continue. In addition, Zebra anticipates that it will see increased demand to meet voluntary criteria related to reduction or elimination of certain constituents from products, increasing energy efficiency, and providing additional accessibility. Risks Related to the Acquisition and Integration of the Enterprise Business Zebra may be unable to effectively integrate Enterprise into its existing business. The integration of Enterprise, which is significantly larger than Zebras business prior to the Acquisition, into Zebras operations will be a significant undertaking and will require significant attention from Zebras management. The Acquisition, with an approximate enterprise value of $3.45 billion, is significantly larger than prior acquisitions Zebra completed and significantly increased the size of Zebras operations, increased its number of employees and operating facilities and expanded its geographic scope. There can be no assurance that Zebra will be able to successfully integrate Enterprise, or if such integration is successfully accomplished, that such integration will not be more costly than presently contemplated. There can also be no assurance that Zebra can successfully manage the combined business due to Zebras greatly increased size and scope. If Zebra cannot successfully integrate and manage Enterprise within a reasonable time following the Acquisition, Zebra may not be able to realize the potential and anticipated benefits of the Acquisition, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and growth prospects. Zebra may be unable to realize the expected growth opportunities and cost savings from the Acquisition. In connection with the integration of Enterprise into Zebras existing operating structure, Zebra will seek to realize growth opportunities, along with cost savings. Zebra currently expects to realize annual cost savings of approximately $150 million per year to be fully achieved by the end of 2016. The anticipated cost savings are based upon assumptions about Zebras ability to implement integration measures in a timely fashion and within certain cost parameters. Zebras ability to achieve the planned cost synergies relies upon a significant number of factors, some of which may be beyond its control. For example, Zebra may be unable to eliminate duplicative costs in a timely fashion or at all. Zebras inability to realize anticipated cost savings, and revenue enhancements from the Acquisition could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and growth prospects. The Acquisition could divert the attention of management . After completing the Acquisition, Zebra entered new lines of business that it lacks experience managing. Similarly, because Enterprise is significantly larger than Zebras business prior to the Acquisition, Zebra will be required to manage new and larger lines of business, and consequently the integration process will require significant attention from management, which may divert managements attention from Zebras other businesses. Management may also have difficulty assimilating the corporate cultures, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees. These diversions, together with other difficulties Zebra may have integrating Enterprise, could have a material adverse effect on Zebras business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and growth prospects. Zebra may be unable to retain key employees who transferred as part of Enterprise . Generally, employees of Enterprise are not contractually obligated to continue their employment with Zebra. Zebras ability to successfully integrate and operate Enterprise depends in part on the continued service of senior management and other key personnel of Enterprise. Zebra can provide no assurance that it will be successful in retaining the service of Enterprises senior managers and key employees, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on Zebras ability to integrate Enterprise. Enterprise may have liabilities that are not known to Zebra . As part of the Acquisition, Zebra assumed certain liabilities of Enterprise. There may be liabilities that Zebra failed or were unable to discover in the course of performing due diligence investigations into Enterprise. Any such liabilities, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on Zebras business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and growth prospects. 20 Table of Contents The Acquisition may entitle certain customers of Enterprise to terminate their agreements with it as a result of change of control provisions . Certain Enterprise customers may be entitled to terminate certain of their agreements with Enterprise as a result of the Acquisition. Zebra cannot avoid the possibility that some customers may exercise their termination rights and opt to discontinue business with Enterprise as a result of the Acquisition, which could have an adverse effect on Zebras expected revenues following the Acquisition. Moreover, some of Zebras existing customers may conclude that as a result of the Acquisition they are overly reliant on a single provider. In such circumstance, Zebras customers may engage its competitors or facilitate the emergence of new competitors to diversify sourcing and service options, which could have an adverse effect on Zebras expected revenues following the Acquisition. Zebra relies on MSI to perform certain critical transition services and there can be no assurance that those services will be performed timely and effectively or that Zebra can replace those services prior to the expiration of the transition services agreement or successfully develop its own operations going forward. Under the terms of the transition services agreement that Zebra entered into with MSI in connection with the Acquisition, MSI will provide Zebra with services critical for the operation and continuity of Zebra operation of Enterprise for a period of twelve to twenty-four months (which may be extended an additional six to twelve months upon Zebras request). Zebra is in the process of transitioning these critical functions, which include primarily information technology. Until Zebra transitions such functions, it will continue to rely on MSI for those services. There can be no assurances that these services will be performed timely and effectively or that Zebra will be able to successfully or timely transition such functions away and assume responsibility over them. Significant disruption in these transition services, or unanticipated costs related to these services, could materially and adversely affect Zebras business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, if we are unable to transition such services to Zebra in a timely fashion or without disruption to Zebras operations, we could experience an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to document and test our internal controls over financial reporting and to report on our assessment as to the effectiveness of these controls. Any delays or difficulty in satisfying these requirements or negative reports concerning our internal controls could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. These documentation and reporting requirements apply to the portion of our business relating to the Enterprise as of Business of December 31, 2015. Because of the timing, size and complexity of the Acquisition Zebra has not completed its documentation and assessment of internal controls over financial reporting related to Enterprise. We may discover areas of our internal controls that need improvement, particularly with respect to Enterprise. We cannot be certain that any remedial measures we take will ensure appropriate implementation and maintenance of adequate internal controls over the financial reporting processes and reporting in the future. We may incur significant additional costs in order to ensure the financial reporting related to Enterprise complies with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and its other public company requirements, which, in turn, would reduce our earnings. Implementing such remedial measures may be complicated by the limited timeframe in which to implement such measures, the possibility that implementation of such measures may require a substantial amount of work and time by Zebra personnel, and the challenge of migrating to a new ERP while implementing such remedial measures. In addition, development of an adequate financial reporting system and the internal controls for Enterprise to achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 may increase the time and costs necessary to complete integration of Enterprise or cause us to miss our reporting obligations. To the extent the financial reporting function of Enterprise has deficiencies in its internal controls, it may impact our internal controls. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report regarding the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. Failure to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the SEC, or other regulatory authorities. In addition, failure to comply with our reporting obligations with the SEC may cause an event of default to occur under the Debt Agreements, or similar instruments governing any debt we or our subsidiaries incur in the future. 21 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Indebtedness In connection with the Acquisition, Zebra has incurred substantial debt obligations, which could adversely affect Zebras financial condition . Zebras total outstanding debt for borrowed money in connection with the acquisition was approximately $3.25 billion on October 27, 2014. In addition, subject to restrictions in the agreements governing Zebras existing and future indebtedness, Zebra may incur additional indebtedness. Zebras substantial level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: Zebra may experience difficulty in satisfying its obligations with respect to its existing indebtedness or future indebtedness, including the Indebtedness; Zebras ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired; Zebra plans to use a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on the indebtedness, which may reduce the funds available to Zebra for other purposes, such as acquisitions and capital expenditures; Zebras may be at a competitive disadvantage with reduced flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changing conditions in the industry, including increased competition; and Zebra may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in the business. Zebra expects to fund its expenses and to pay the principal and interest on the Indebtedness from cash flow from operations. Zebras ability to meet its expenses and to pay principal and interest on the Indebtedness when due thus depends on its future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors. Zebra will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions in the markets where Zebra operates and pressure from competitors. Additionally, Zebra has not previously undertaken substantial amounts of indebtedness. Historically, Zebra has operated its business without incurring significant indebtedness for borrowed money and has limited experience operating its business subject to the constraints imposed by the Debt Agreements. Despite the Indebtedness, Zebra may be able to incur substantially more indebtedness and take other actions that could further exacerbate the risk associated with its substantial indebtedness . Zebra incurred approximately $3.25 billion of indebtedness. In addition to the financing activities, Zebra may be able to incur substantially more indebtedness in the future, resulting in higher leverage. Subject to the limits contained in the Debt Agreements, Zebra may incur additional indebtedness from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. To the extent Zebra incurs additional indebtedness, the risks associated with its substantial indebtedness will be exacerbated. Zebras use of derivative financial instruments to reduce interest rate risk associated with the Acquisition may result in added volatility in its quarterly operating results . Zebra does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. However, Zebra does utilize derivative financial instruments to reduce interest rate risk associated with the indebtedness. To manage variable interest rate risk, Zebra entered into forward interest rate swap agreements, which will effectively convert a portion of the Indebtedness into a fixed rate loan. Under generally accepted accounting principles, the fair values of the swap contracts, which will either be amounts receivable from or payable to counterparties, are reflected as either assets or liabilities on Zebras Consolidated Balance Sheets. Zebra records its fair value change in our Consolidated Statements of Earnings, as a component of Other income (expense). The associated impact on Zebras quarterly operating results is directly related to changes in prevailing interest rates. If interest rates increase, Zebra would have a non-cash gain on the swaps, and vice versa. Consequently, these swap contracts introduce complexity to Zebras operating results. Restrictive covenants in the Debt Agreements may limit Zebras current and future operations, particularly its ability to respond to changes in its business or to pursue its business strategies . The Debt Agreements contain, and instruments governing any future indebtedness will contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions, including restrictions on Zebras ability to take actions that Zebra believes may be in its interest. Zebra expects these covenants will limit its ability to: incur additional indebtedness or guarantees; pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem its stock or prepay or redeem certain indebtedness; sell or dispose of assets and issue capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; incur liens or enter into sale-lease-back transactions; enter into agreements restricting its subsidiaries ability to pay dividends; 22 Table of Contents enter into transactions with affiliates; engage in new lines of business; consolidate, merge or enter into other fundamental changes; make loans, investments and/or acquisitions; and enter into amendments or modifications of certain material subordinated debt agreements or organizational documents. Additionally, the Term Loan entered into to fund a portion of the Acquisition will require Zebra to maintain in certain circumstances compliance with a consolidated total secured net leverage ratio. Zebras ability to comply with this ratio may be affected by events beyond its control, and Zebra cannot assure you that Zebra will meet this ratio. The restrictions could adversely affect Zebras ability to: finance operations; make needed capital expenditures; make strategic acquisitions or investments or enter into alliances; withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general; engage in business activities, including future opportunities, that may be in Zebras interest; and plan for or react to market conditions or otherwise execute Zebras business strategies. A breach of any of the covenants contained in the Debt Agreements (including an inability to comply with the financial maintenance covenants) that is not remedied within the applicable cure period, if any, would result in an event of default under the Debt Agreements. If, when required, Zebra is unable to repay or refinance the Indebtedness or amend the covenants contained in the Debt Agreements, or if a default otherwise occurs that is not cured or waived, the lenders or holders of Zebras debt securities could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable or institute foreclosure proceedings against those assets that secure the borrowings. Should the outstanding obligations be accelerated and become due and payable because of any failure to comply with the applicable covenants in the future, Zebra would be required to search for alternative measures to finance current and ongoing obligations of its business. There can be no assurance that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Any of these scenarios could adversely impact Zebras liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. A significant amount of cash will be required to service the Indebtedness . Zebras ability to make payments on and to refinance the Indebtedness and to fund working capital needs, general corporate expenditures and planned capital expenditures will depend on Zebras ability to generate a significant amount of cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond Zebras control. If Zebras business does not generate sufficient cash flows from operations or if future borrowings are not available to Zebra in an amount sufficient to enable Zebra to pay the Indebtedness or to fund its other liquidity needs, Zebra may need to refinance all or a portion of the Indebtedness on or before the maturity thereof, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments or seek to raise additional capital, any of which could have a material adverse effect on Zebras operations. In addition, Zebra may not be able to effect any of these actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Zebras ability to restructure or refinance the Indebtedness will depend on the condition of the capital and debt markets and its financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of the Indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require Zebra to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict business operations. The terms of anticipated or future debt instruments may limit or prevent Zebra from taking any of these actions. In addition, any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and/or principal on outstanding indebtedness would likely result in a reduction of Zebras credit rating, which could harm its ability to access additional capital on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Zebras inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy its debt service obligations, or to refinance or restructure its obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would have an adverse effect, which could be material, on Zebras business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as on its ability to satisfy the obligations in respect of the Indebtedness. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 2. Properties 23 Table of Contents Zebras corporate headquarters are located in Lincolnshire, Illinois, a northern suburb of Chicago. Zebra also operates manufacturing, production and warehousing facilities, administrative, research and sales facilities in other U.S. locations and other countries. As of December 31, 2014, Zebra owned 3 facilities located in: Holtville, NY; Preston, UK; and Mississauga, Ontario, Canada. As of December 31, 2014, we operated from 13 facilities for the purposes of manufacturing, production and warehousing, eight of which were located in the United States and five were located in other countries. As of December 31, 2014, the Company leased 88 facilities, 35 of which were located in the United States and 53 were located in other countries We generally consider the productive capacity of the plants to be adequate and sufficient for our requirements. The extent of utilization of each manufacturing facility varies throughout the year. Item 3. Legal Proceedings See Note 15 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 24 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Stock Information: Price Range and Common Stock Our Class A Common Stock is traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol ZBRA. The following table shows the high and low trade prices for each fiscal quarter in 2014 and 2013, as reported by The NASDAQ Stock Market. 2014 High Low 2013 High Low First Quarter $ 72.76 $ 52.61 First Quarter $ 47.24 $ 40.04 Second Quarter 87.53 60.06 Second Quarter 47.20 42.51 Third Quarter 86.02 72.10 Third Quarter 49.38 42.86 Fourth Quarter 79.11 58.95 Fourth Quarter 55.22 45.00 Source: The NASDAQ Stock Market At February 13, 2015, the last reported price for the Class A Common Stock was $90.53 per share, and there were 187 registered stockholders of record for Zebras Class A Common Stock. In addition, we had approximately 23,900 stockholders who owned Zebra stock in street name. Dividend Policy Since our initial public offering in 1991, we have not declared any cash dividends or distributions on our capital stock. Zebra currently does not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Treasury Shares Zebra did not purchase shares of Zebra Class A Common Stock during the fourth quarter of 2014. On November 2011, Zebras Board authorized the purchase of up to an additional 3,000,000 shares under the purchase plan program and the maximum number of shares that may yet be purchased under the program is 665,475. The November 2011 authorization does not have an expiration date. 25 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS (LOSS) DATA (In thousands, except per share amounts) Year Ended December 31, 2014 (1) 2013 2012 2011 2010 Net sales $ 1,670,572 $ 1,038,159 $ 996,168 $ 983,488 $ 894,359 Cost of sales 892,547 534,549 504,524 496,719 473,584 Gross profit 778,025 503,610 491,644 486,769 420,775 Total operating expenses 689,435 (2) 343,346 (4) 327,293 (5) 304,733 (6) 272,560 (7) Operating income 88,590 160,264 164,351 182,036 148,215 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 16,629 (3) 163,827 164,174 179,719 149,607 Income from continuing operations 32,429 134,225 121,897 130,343 104,614 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax 0 133 1,007 44,300 (2,836 ) Net income $ 32,429 $ 134,358 $ 122,904 $ 174,643 $ 101,778 Basic earnings per share: Income from continuing operations $ 0.64 $ 2.65 $ 2.36 $ 2.42 $ 1.83 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 0.00 0.00 0.02 0.82 (0.05 ) Net income $ 0.64 $ 2.65 $ 2.38 $ 3.24 $ 1.78 Diluted earnings per share: Income from continuing operations $ 0.63 $ 2.63 $ 2.35 $ 2.40 $ 1.82 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 0.00 0.00 0.02 0.82 (0.05 ) Net income $ 0.63 $ 2.63 $ 2.37 $ 3.22 $ 1.77 Weighted average shares outstanding Basic 50,789 50,693 51,566 53,854 57,143 Diluted 51,380 51,063 51,843 54,191 57,428 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET DATA (In thousands) December 31, 2014 (8) 2013 2012 2011 2010 Cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, investments and marketable securities (current and long-term) $ 418,335 $ 415,795 $ 394,075 $ 326,695 $ 258,598 Working capital (9) 716,203 635,049 615,649 475,899 455,143 Total assets 5,568,851 1,119,812 967,748 899,006 878,864 Long-term obligations (10) 3,356,718 15,477 14,229 11,515 10,191 Stockholders equity 1,039,908 958,658 857,002 776,925 730,032 (1) On October 27, 2014, we acquired Enterprise; Consolidated Statements of Earnings (loss) data include Enterprises results from the acquisition date through December 31, 2014. Net Sales in 2014 include $476.0 million from Enterprise operations (2) Includes acquisition and integration costs of $126.7 million and exit and restructuring costs of $6.0 million (3) Includes interest expense costs of $56.8 million (4) Includes exit and restructuring costs of $5.9 million (5) Includes asset impairment charges of $9.1 million and exit and restructuring costs of $0.9 million (6) Includes exit and restructuring costs of $2.0 million (7) Includes litigation settlement proceeds received of $1.1 million and exit and restructuring costs of $2.3 million (8) The consolidated balance sheet data includes Enterprise data as of December 31, 2014. Total assets include $2.336 billion of goodwill and $1.014 billion of intangibles, see Note 3 Business Combinations in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K. Long term obligations include $3.2 billion of long term debt, see Note 14 Long-term debt in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K 26 Table of Contents (9) Calculated as current assets minus current liabilities. (10) Long-term obligations include deferred compensation, unearned revenue and long-term debt. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview Zebra is a global leader respected for innovation and reliability. We offer products and services that give organizations greater visibility and insights into their operations, which we call Enterprise Asset Intelligence. Our products and services allow our customers to manage their assets, transactions and people more effectively, and thereby improve their operational efficiency, deliver a better customer experience, provide more effective security and achieve other objectives of their organization. In October 2014, Zebra acquired the Enterprise business (Enterprise) from Motorola Solutions, Inc. (MSI), excluding its iDEN, or Integrated Digital Enhanced Network Business, for $3.45 billion in cash (the Acquisition). Enterprise is an industry leader in mobile computing and advanced data capture technologies and services, which complement Zebras printing and RFID products. Its products include rugged and enterprise-grade mobile computers; laser, imaging and radio frequency identification based data capture products; wireless LAN (WLAN) solutions and software; and applications that are associated with these products and services. Enterprise service revenues include revenues arising from maintenance, integration services and device and network management. Similar to Zebras business, Enterprises products and services are sold to a wide range of enterprise customers, including those in the retail, hospitality, transportation and logistics, manufacturing, warehouse and distribution centers, energy and utilities, education and healthcare industries. Zebra financed the Acquisition through a combination of cash on hand and borrowings of $3.25 billion (the Indebtedness), including the sale of 7 1 4 % senior notes due 2022 with an aggregate principal amount of $1.05 billion (the Notes) and a new credit agreement with various lenders that provided a term loan of $2.2 billion (the Term Loan) due 2021. 27 Table of Contents Results of Operations: Year Ended December 31, 2014 versus Year Ended December 31, 2013 Consolidated Results of Operations (Amounts in thousands, except percentages) Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Percent Change Percent of Net Sales - 2014 Percent of Net Sales - 2013 Net sales $ 1,670,572 $ 1,038,159 60.9 100.0 100.0 Gross profit 778,025 503,610 54.5 46.6 48.5 Operating income 88,590 160,264 (44.7) 5.3 15.4 Zebra experienced sales growth across all regions and all product categories in 2014 which resulted in an increase of 60.9% compared to 2013. Sales growth is primarily from the October 2014 acquisition of Enterprise and the December 2013 acquisition of Hart Systems LLC which increased sales for the year by $482.2 million and $23.7 million respectively, in services, software and hardware. Sales of printers and supplies also contributed meaningfully to the annual sales growth. Sales by product category were as follows (amounts in thousands, except percentages): Year Ended Product category December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Percent Change Percent of Net Sales 2014 Percent of Net Sales 2013 Hardware $ 1,233,386 $ 740,567 66.5 73.8 71.3 Supplies 265,176 243,965 8.7 15.9 23.5 Service and software 172,010 53,627 220.8 10.3 5.2 Total net sales $ 1,670,572 $ 1,038,159 60.9 100.0 100.0 Sales to customers by geographic region were as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Year Ended Geographic region December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Percent Change Percent of Net Sales 2014 Percent of Net Sales 2013 Europe, Middle East and Africa $ 583,005 $ 326,470 78.6 34.9 31.4 Latin America 134,638 99,041 35.9 8.1 9.5 Asia-Pacific 215,911 152,740 41.4 12.9 14.7 Total International 933,554 578,251 61.4 55.9 55.6 North America 737,018 459,908 60.3 44.1 44.4 Total net sales $ 1,670,572 $ 1,038,159 60.9 100.0 100.0 Gross profit Gross profit increased $274.4 million or 54.5%. $214.8 million was due to the October 2014 acquisition of Enterprise and $15.3 million was due to the December 2013 acquisition of Hart Systems LLC. Operating income Operating income decreased 44.7% from prior year. This was mainly due to acquisition costs and amortization of intangibles related to the October 2014 acquisition of Motorolas Enterprise Business. In addition, expenses across all functional areas increased due to the October 2014 acquisition of Enterprise and the December 2013 acquisition of Hart Systems LLC. 28 Table of Contents Segment Information Commencing with the acquisition of Enterprise in October 2014, our continuing operations consist of two segments (1) Enterprise, comprised of our mobile computing, data capture, and WLAN products and (2) Legacy Zebra, comprised of barcode and card printing, location and motion sensing and supplies products. The following commentary should be read in conjunction with the financial results of each operating business segment as detailed in Note 21, Segment Information and Geographic Data in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The segment data excludes acquisition costs, amortization of intangibles and exit and restructuring costs. Segment information is as follows (in thousands): Legacy Zebra Segment Year to date (Amounts in thousands, except percentages) Year ended December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Percent Change Percent of Net Sales - 2014 Percent of Net Sales - 2013 Net sales $ 1,194,536 $ 1,038,159 15.1 100.0 100.0 Gross profit $ 597,853 $ 503,610 18.7 50.0 48.5 Operating income $ 238,162 $ 178,539 33.4 19.9 17.2 Legacy Zebra Segment Sales Net sales for 2014 increased 15.1%, compared to 2013. This increase is a result of growth across all regions and across all product categories, with notable increases in supplies and service contracts, tabletop, desktop and mobile printers. Increased services and software revenue is attributable to both organic growth and the December 2013 acquisition of Hart Systems increased sales by $23.7 million. Movement in foreign currency, net of hedges, increased sales growth by $10.2 million. Legacy Zebra Segment Gross profit Gross margin of 50.0%, versus 48.5% for 2013, reflects the favorable impact of lower product costs, improved absorption of fixed costs, lower freight costs, and revenue related to the December 2013 acquisition of Hart Systems LLC. Favorable movements in foreign currency, net of hedges, increased gross profit by $7.1 million. Legacy Zebra Segment Operating Income Operating income increased 33.4% from prior year. This is the result of favorable movements in gross profit offset by increases in operating expenses. These expenses exclude acquisition costs, amortization of intangibles and exit and restructuring costs. Enterprise Segment For two months ended December 31, 2014 (Amounts in thousands, except percentages) Two months Ended December 31, 2014 Percent of Net Sales - 2014 Net sales $ 482,217 100.0 Gross profit $ 214,806 44.5 Operating income $ 65,032 13.5 Enterprise Sales On October 27, 2014, Zebra acquired Enterprise, a provider of industry-leading data capture, mobile computing, specialty printing and asset tracking solutions and services. This transaction strengthens and expands Zebras product portfolio and geographic reach. 29 Table of Contents For the two months ended December 31, 2014, net sales for Enterprise was $482.2 million, excluding a reduction of $6.2 million in a purchase price accounting adjustment related to the valuation of service contracts. For the period, sales of mobile computing products were strong, with shipments to customers in retail, transportation and logistics and postal, particularly in North America and EMEA. Sales of Enterprise products were also strong to distributors, also particularly in North America and EMEA. Enterprise Gross profit Gross profit for Enterprise for the two months ended December 31, 2014, was $214.8 million, or 44.5% of sales, excluding reductions of $28.5 million in cost of sales and $6.2 million in service revenue, as purchase accounting adjustments. The gross profit margin reflects the mix of product sales and service revenue for the two-month period. Enterprise Operating Income Operating income for Enterprise for the two months ended December 31, 2014 was $65.0 million. Excluded from this amount are accounting adjustments of $28.5 million in cost of sales and $6.2 million in service revenue, amortization expense of $43.6 million and acquisition expense of $10.5 million associated with the October 2014 acquisition of Enterprise and $5.7 million of restructuring costs. Consolidated Operating expenses Operating expenses are summarized below (in thousands, except percentages): Year Ended Operating Expenses December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Percent Change Selling and marketing $ 213,304 $ 138,020 54.5 Research and development 151,103 91,147 65.8 General and administrative 138,214 96,216 43.6 Amortization of intangible assets 54,096 7,383 N/M Acquisition costs 126,711 4,690 N/M Exit and restructuring costs 6,007 5,890 2.0 Total operating expenses $ 689,435 $ 343,346 100.8 Operating expenses for 2014 increased 100.8% mainly due to acquisition costs, amortization of intangibles and increased costs across all functional areas as a result of the October 2014 acquisition of Enterprise and the December 2013 acquisition of Hart Systems LLC. Selling and marketing expenses increased 54.5% of which 46.4% is related to the October 2014 acquisition of Enterprise. This remaining increase of 8.1% is mainly due to increases in compensation costs related to higher sales and improved operating results in the legacy Zebra business. Research and development increased 65.8% in comparison to 2013 with Enterprise contributing 55.4% to the year over year increase. Compensation costs and outside professional services make up the majority of the incremental change from prior year. General and administrative expenses increased 43.6% due to increases in compensation costs due to higher sales and outside professional services. The October 2014 acquisition of Enterprise contributed 19.0% to the overall increase from prior year. 30 Table of Contents Consolidated other income (expense) Zebras non-operating income and expense items are summarized in the following table (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, December 31, 2014 2013 Investment income (loss) $ (714) $ 2,366 Foreign exchange loss (8,759) (524) Forward swaps loss (4,649) 0 Interest expense (56,836) (98) Other, net (1,003) 1,819 Total other income (expense) $ (71,961) $ 3,563 Foreign exchange loss The increase in foreign exchange loss is due to losses on net foreign currency assets of $14.4 million offset by gains of $5.7 million from foreign exchange derivatives. Interest Expense The increase in interest expense is due to interest expense of $16.0 million related to the senior notes, $20.0 million related to the term loan and bridge loan fees of $19.0 million. Forward Interest Rate Swaps The increase in forward swap loss is due to the loss on the forward interest rate swaps not designated in a hedge relationship. We entered into New Swaps and Offsetting Swaps on November 20, 2014, which we designated as cash flow hedges of interest rate exposure associated with variability in future cash flows on the Term Loan. Subsequent to the hedge designation, the effective portion of changes in their fair value is recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) and the ineffective portion is recognized in earnings. The effective portion recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) will be reclassified to earnings in other income (expense) as the interest payments under the Term Loan affect earnings. The Syndicated Swaps and the Offsetting Swaps are not designated in a hedging relationship and the changes in fair values are recognized in earnings in other income (expense). Refer to Note 13, Derivative Instruments to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Form 10-K. Income taxes The effective income tax rate for 2014 was (95.0%) compared to prior years effective income tax rate of 18.1%. The 2014 rate benefit is primarily driven by foreign earnings taxed at a lower rates and domestic pre-tax loss, which is attributable to third-party interest expense and acquisition expenses. 31 Table of Contents Comparison of Years Ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 Consolidated Results of Operations (Amounts in thousands, except percentages) Year Ended December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 Percent Change Percent of Net Sales - 2013 Percent of Net Sales - 2012 Net Sales Tangible products $ 984,532 $ 948,227 3.8 94.8 95.2 Service & software 53,627 47,941 11.9 5.2 4.8 Total net sales 1,038,159 996,168 4.2 100.0 100.0 Cost of Sales Tangible products 507,513 479,633 5.8 48.9 48.1 Service & software 27,036 24,891 8.6 2.6 2.5 Total cost of sales 534,549 504,524 6.0 51.5 50.6 Gross profit 503,610 491,644 2.4 48.5 49.4 Operating expenses 343,346 327,293 4.9 33.1 32.9 Operating income 160,264 164,351 (2.5) 15.4 16.5 Other income (expense) 3,563 (177) N/M 0.4 (0.0) Income from continuing operations before income taxes 163,827 164,174 (0.2) 15.8 16.5 Income taxes 29,602 42,277 (30.0) 2.9 4.3 Income from continuing operations 134,225 121,897 10.1 12.9 12.2 Income from discontinued operations, net of tax 133 1,007 (86.8) 0.0 0.1 Net income $ 134,358 $ 122,904 9.3 12.9 12.3 Diluted earnings per share: Income from continuing operations $ 2.63 $ 2.35 11.9 Income from discontinued operations 0.00 0.02 N/M Net income $ 2.63 $ 2.37 11.0 Consolidated Results of Operations Full Year Net sales for 2013 compared with 2012 increased 4.2% as a result of growth across most product categories with notable increases in supplies, service and software. The growth in supplies, due to the LaserBand acquisition in July 2012, partially offset weak business conditions from the first half of 2013. Printer unit volumes increased 4.9% for 2013 compared to 2012 due to volume increases in desktop, mobile, kiosk and card printers. Movement towards lower-priced printers partially offset unit volume increases. Movement in foreign currency, net of hedge activity, partially offset sales growth by $2.8 million. Sales by product category were as follows (amounts in thousands, except percentages): Year Ended Product category December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 Percent Change Percent of Net Sales 2013 Percent of Net Sales 2012 Hardware $ 735,123 $ 730,489 0.6 70.8 73.4 Supplies 243,965 212,499 14.8 23.5 21.3 Service and software 53,627 47,941 11.9 5.2 4.8 Subtotal products 1,032,715 990,929 4.2 99.5 99.5 Shipping and handling 5,444 5,239 3.9 0.5 0.5 Total net sales $ 1,038,159 $ 996,168 4.2 100.0 100.0 32 Table of Contents North America, Asia Pacific and Europe, Middle East and Africa contributed to an overall growth of 4.2% with notable increases in supplies and printer sales. The growth in supplies, which includes labels and wristbands, is the result of the Laserband acquisition in July of 2012 plus organic growth in supplies. Sales to customers by geographic region were as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Year Ended Geographic region December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 Percent Change Percent of Net Sales 2013 Percent of Net Sales 2012 Europe, Middle East and Africa $ 326,470 $ 322,970 1.1 31.4 32.4 Latin America 99,041 100,101 (1.1) 9.5 10.0 Asia-Pacific 152,740 137,577 11.0 14.7 13.8 Total International 578,251 560,648 3.1 55.6 56.2 North America 459,908 435,520 5.6 44.4 43.8 Total net sales $ 1,038,159 $ 996,168 4.2 100.0 100.0 Gross profit Gross profit increased 2.4% due to higher volumes partially offset by unfavorable movements in product mix. Movements in foreign currency, net of hedges, decreased gross profit by $1.0 million. Operating expenses Operating expenses are summarized below (in thousands, except percentages): Year Ended Operating Expenses December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 Percent Change Percent of Net Sales 2013 Percent of Net Sales 2012 Selling and marketing $ 138,020 $ 129,906 6.2 13.2 13.0 Research and development 91,147 87,364 4.3 8.8 8.8 General and administrative 96,216 92,167 4.4 9.3 9.3 Amortization of intangible assets 7,383 4,673 58.0 0.7 0.5 Acquisition costs 4,690 3,109 50.9 0.5 0.3 Exit and restructuring costs 5,890 960 N/M 0.6 0.1 Asset impairment charge 0 9,114 N/M 0.0 0.9 Total operating expenses $ 343,346 $ 327,293 4.9 33.1 32.9 Operating expenses for 2013 increased 4.9%. The increase is due to increased expenses across all functional areas offset by the absence of a goodwill impairment charge which represents 2.8% of 2012 operating expenses. The acquisition of both LaserBand and StepOne contributed to the increase in Zebras operating expenses. Several categories accounted for these increases, including compensation costs, outside professional services, depreciation and information systems expenses. Acquisition costs are related to investigated and completed acquisitions during the period. Amortization of intangible assets increased from additions of current technology, patent and patent rights and customer relationships during the year, including the acquisition of LaserBand in July 2012. Exit and restructuring costs in 2012 and 2013 primarily relate to the restructuring of the Location Solutions business management structure. Exit and restructuring costs During the third quarter of 2012, revenue from Location Solutions fell below plan from slower than anticipated growth in the automotive and process manufacturing industries and weakness in the government sector. As a result, we initiated the Locations Solutions 2012 restructuring plan. In the second quarter of 2013, management determined that additional restructuring actions would be required to meet our financial goals for the Location Solutions business. We anticipate that the results of our restructuring actions will reduce costs of the Location Solutions business by $4.0 million per year. These savings should be fully realized by the first quarter 2014. The savings from the Location Solutions restructuring plan will primarily benefit cost of goods sold, engineering and selling and marketing expenses. 33 Table of Contents During 2007, Zebra began a plan to outsource printer manufacturing to a third-party contract manufacturer. The transition to the third-party manufacturer was completed during 2010. During the fourth quarter of 2012, we determined that further supply chain cost reductions were possible by moving certain supply chain support operations closer to our contract printer manufacturers facility, which is located in China. We anticipate these actions will generate $2.6 million in annual savings to our cost of goods sold. These actions were completed by the end of 2013. Operating income The operating income decrease for 2013 was the result of operating expense increases as noted above and partially offset by higher gross profit. Other income (expense) Zebras non-operating income and expense items are summarized in the following table (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, December 31, 2013 2012 Investment income $ 2,366 $ 2,485 Foreign exchange loss (524) (941) Interest income (expense) (98) (207) Other, net 1,819 (1,514) Total other income (expense) $ 3,563 $ (177) The increase in other income is the result of a net $1.6 million favorable litigation settlement associated with an investment loss that was recorded in prior years. Income taxes The effective tax rate for 2013 was 18.1% compared to an effective tax rate of 25.8% for 2012. The 2012 rate reflects a discrete item for nondeductible asset impairment charge, increasing the tax rate by 1.9% for the full year. Further, in 2012, in order to streamline the management, financing and capital structure of its foreign affiliates, Zebra established a foreign holding company and restructured the ownership structure of its foreign affiliates. This new holding company structure allows Zebra to consolidate the ownership of its significant foreign affiliates under a single holding company. In addition, the structure introduced leverage which gives Zebra the ability to facilitate cash pooling and improve the capital structure of its non-US operations. The new capital structure and global financing favorably impacts the Zebras effective tax rate and facilitates the tax efficient movement of Zebras foreign cash to finance the ongoing operating and investment needs of the foreign subsidiaries. The restructuring was completed in the second quarter of 2012 and was in place for the full year in 2013. In addition, the US R&D credit reinstatement for the 2012 income tax year resulted in a tax benefit of $0.9 million. Finally, Zebra recorded a favorable provision to return adjustment resulting in a reduction to the effective tax rate of 1.1% following the filing of Zebras 2012 income tax returns. 34 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Management prepared the consolidated financial statements of Zebra under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These principles require the use of estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions we used are reasonable, based upon the information available. Our estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts in our financial statements. The following accounting policies comprise those that we believe are the most critical in understanding and evaluating Zebras reported financial results. Revenue Recognition Revenue includes sales of hardware, supplies, software and services (including repair services, extended service contracts, and professional services) and bundled sales of equipment, software and services. We enter into revenue arrangements that may consist of multiple deliverables of our products and services due to the needs of our customers. Zebra recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred and title has passed to the customer, which happens at the point of shipment, provided that no significant obligations remain, the price is fixed and determinable and collectability of the sales price is reasonably assured. For hardware sales, in addition to the criteria discussed above, revenue recognition occurs when no significant obligations remain and allowances for discounts, price protection, returns and customer incentives can be reasonably estimated. In addition to cooperative marketing and other incentive programs, Zebra has arrangements with some distributors which allow for price protection and limited rights of return, generally through stock rotation programs. Under the price protection programs, Zebra gives distributors credits for the difference between the original price paid and Zebras then current price. Under the stock rotation programs, distributors are able to exchange certain products based on the number of qualified purchases made during the period. We monitor and track these programs and record a provision for future payments or credits granted as reductions of revenue based on historical experience. Recorded revenues are reduced by these allowances. Zebra enters into post contract maintenance and support agreements; revenues are deferred and then recognized ratably over the service period and the cost of providing these services is expensed as incurred. Zebra includes shipping and handling charges billed to customers as revenue when the product ships; any costs incurred related to these services are included in cost of sales. Fair Value of Financial Instruments Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Our financial assets and financial liabilities that require recognition under the accounting guidance generally include available-for-sale investments, employee deferred compensation plan, foreign currency derivatives and interest rate swaps. The guidance establishes a hierarchy for inputs used in measuring fair value that maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs by requiring that the observable inputs be used when available. Observable inputs are inputs that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed based on market data obtained from sources independent of us. Unobservable inputs that reflect our assumptions about the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed based on the best information available in the circumstances. Zebras investments in marketable debt securities are classified as available-for-sale except for securities held in Zebras deferred compensation plan which are considered to be trading securities. In general we use quoted prices in active markets for identical assets to determine fair value. If active markets for identical assets are not available to determine fair value, then we use quoted prices for similar assets or inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly. Zebra has foreign currency forwards to hedge certain foreign currency exposures and interest rate swaps to hedge a portion of the variability in future cash flows on debt. We use broker quotations or market transactions, in either the listed or over-the-counter markets to value our foreign currency exchange contracts and relevant observable market inputs at quoted intervals, such as forward yield curves and Zebras own credit risk to value our interest rate swaps. Accounts Receivable We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for losses that we estimate will arise from our customers inability to make required payments. We make estimates of the collectability of our accounts receivable by considering factors such as historical bad debt experience, specific customer creditworthiness, the age of the accounts receivable balances and current economic trends that may affect a customers ability to pay. If the data we use to calculate the allowance for doubtful accounts does not reflect the future ability to collect outstanding receivables, additional provisions for doubtful accounts may be needed and our results of operations could be materially affected. Accounts receivable reserves as of December 31, 2014, were $1.1 million or 0.2% of the balance due. 35 Table of Contents Inventories We value our inventories at the lower of the actual cost to purchase or manufacture using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method, or the current estimated market value. We review inventory quantities on hand and record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on forecasts of product demand and production requirements for the subsequent twelve months. Over the last three years, our inventory reserves have ranged from 1.5% to 11.9% of gross inventory. As of December 31, 2014, inventory reserves were $5.8 million, or 1.5% of gross inventory. We believe this reserve level is appropriate considering the quantities and quality of the inventories as of December 31, 2014. Goodwill and other Intangible Assets We perform an annual review of goodwill or sooner if indicators of potential impairment are identified. We review performance and other indicators and determine at that time if the goodwill test associated with the acquisition should be evaluated on a qualitative or quantitative basis. If quantitative, the process we would expect to use, and have used historically, compares the book value of net assets to the fair value of the reporting units. If the fair value is determined to be less than the book value or qualitative factors indicate that it is more likely than not that goodwill is impaired, a second step is performed to compute the amount of impairment as the difference between the estimated fair value of goodwill and the carrying value at the testing date. We estimate the fair value of the reporting units using discounted cash flow and certain market value data. Of the goodwill recognized at December 31, 2014, approximately $2.336 billion relates to the Enterprise Acquisition transaction. Approximately $153.5 million of goodwill existed prior to the Enterprise Acquisition and is recorded in the Legacy Zebra business. Net intangible assets excluding goodwill amounted to $1.014 billion as of December 31, 2014. The annual evaluation of goodwill requires the use of estimates about future operating results, valuation multiples, and discount rates to determine their estimated fair value. Changes in these assumptions can materially affect these estimates. If our future performance is below our projections, goodwill impairment charges can result. Zebra will monitor future results and will perform a test if indicators trigger an impairment review. Long-lived Assets and Other Intangible Assets Long-lived assets held and used are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. We estimate the future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition. If the sum of the expected future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) is less than the carrying amount of the asset, an impairment is recognized. Determining whether an impairment has occurred typically requires various estimates and assumptions, including determining which undiscounted cash flows are directly related to the potentially impaired asset, the useful life over which cash flows will occur, their amount, and the assets residual value, if any. Any related impairment loss is calculated based upon comparison of the fair value to the carrying value of the asset. Separate intangible assets that have finite useful lives are amortized over their useful lives. An impaired long-lived or intangible asset would be written down to fair value, based on various available valuation techniques, including the discounted cash flow method. Income Taxes Income taxes are recognized during the year in which transactions enter into the determination of financial statement income, with deferred taxes being provided for temporary differences between financial and tax reporting. Zebra recognizes in the financial statements a provision for tax uncertainties, resulting from application of complex tax regulations in multiple jurisdictions. See Note 19 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Form 10-K. Contingencies Zebra records estimated liabilities related to contingencies based on our estimates of the probable outcomes. Quarterly, Zebra assesses the potential liability related to pending litigation, tax audits and other contingencies and confirm or revise estimates and reserves as appropriate. For further information regarding material pending legal proceedings, see Note 15 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Form 10-K. 36 Table of Contents Equity-Based Compensation As of December 31, 2014, Zebra had an active equity-based compensation plan and a stock purchase plan available for future grants. We accounted for these plans in accordance with ASC 505 and ASC 718. Zebra recognizes compensation costs using the straight-line method over the vesting period of up to 5 years. See Notes 2 and 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Form 10-K for further information. Acquisitions We account for acquired businesses using the acquisition method of accounting. This method requires that the purchase price be allocated to the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their estimated fair values. The excess of the purchase price over the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recorded as goodwill. The estimates used to determine the fair value of long-lived assets, such as intangible assets, can be complex and require significant judgments. We use information available to us to make fair value determinations and engage independent valuation specialists, when necessary, to assist in the fair value determination of significant acquired long-lived assets. While we use our best estimates and assumptions as a part of the purchase price allocation process, our estimates are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. Critical estimates in valuing certain intangible assets include, but are not limited to, future expected cash flows from customer relationships, customer attrition rates and discount rates. Managements estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but due to the inherent uncertainty during the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, we record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill. The purchase price allocation of the Enterprise Acquisition is based upon a preliminary valuation and the estimates and assumptions are subject to change within the measurement period as additional information is obtained. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In July 2013, the FASB issued Accounting Standard Update (ASU) 2013-11 Presentation of an Unrecognized Tax Benefit When a Net Operating Loss Carryforward, a Similar Tax Loss, or a Tax Credit Carryforward Exists. ASU 2013 -11 was issued to promote consistency among financial statement issuers and amends ASC 740, Income Taxes, to provide clarification of the financial statement presentation of an unrecognized tax benefit when a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward exists. According to ASU 2013-11, an unrecognized tax benefit or a portion of an unrecognized tax benefit should be presented in the financial statements as a reduction of a deferred tax asset for a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward, with certain exceptions. The revised guidance is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2013 with early adoption permitted. We adopted this guidance for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2014. The adoption did not have a material impact on our financial statements. In April 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-08 Reporting Discontinued Operations and Disclosures of Disposals of Components of an Entity . This update amends the criteria for reporting discontinued operations to, among other things, raise the threshold for disposals to qualify as discontinued operations. Under the revised standard, a discontinued operation must represent a strategic shift that has or will have a major effect on an entitys operations and financial results. The revised standard will also allow an entity to have certain continuing cash flows or involvement with the component after the disposal. This update is effective for interim and annual reporting periods, beginning after December 15, 2014, with early adoption permitted. We will adopt this guidance for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2015. We do not expect the adoption to have a material impact on our financial statements. In May 2014, the FASB issued update 2014-09, ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers . This guidance is a comprehensive new revenue recognition model that requires a company to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to a customer at an amount that reflects the consideration it expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. This standard is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016 and interim periods within those annual periods. Management is still assessing the impact of adoption on its consolidated financial statements. Liquidity and Capital Resources In connection with the Acquisition in October 2014, we incurred indebtedness totaling $3.25 billion. As of December 31, 2014, we had cash and marketable securities balances of $418.3 million and long-term debt totaling $3.2 billion. We did not have any borrowings against our revolving credit facility with $247.1 million available ($250 million less $2.9 million of letters of credit available). See Note 14 Long term debt in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details and under Financing activities below. The primary factors that influence our liquidity include, but are not 37 Table of Contents limited to, the amount and timing of our revenues, cash collections from our customers, capital expenditures and acquisitions of third-parties. Management believes that existing capital resources and funds generated from operations are sufficient to meet anticipated capital requirements and service our indebtedness. The following table summarizes our cash flow activities for the periods indicated (in thousands): As of December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Cash flow provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 248,325 $ 194,766 $ 183,331 Investing activities (3,111,336) (153,149) (105,535) Financing activities 3,192,234 (44,173) (49,434) Effect of exchange rates on cash balances 1,900 643 (40) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 331,123 (1,913) 28,322 The change in our cash and cash equivalents balance is reflective of the following: Operating activities During 2014, Zebra generated operating cash flows of $248.3 million increasing $53.6 million from 2013. The operating cash flows increase is a result of strong legacy Zebra performance in addition to operating cash from the acquisition of Enterprise. Receivables increased $69.6 million which was a result of fourth quarter 2014 sales from both legacy Zebra and the acquisition of Enterprise. Accounts payable increased $62.2 million primarily due to increase in business activity as a result of the acquisition of Enterprise. Accrued liabilities increased $164.3 million as of December 31, 2014. This increase in accrued liabilities is related to an increase in compensation accruals and professional service fees which are related to the acquisition of Enterprise. Movements in deferred revenue reflect the increased level of service contracts. Deferred revenue primarily consists of billings and payments received in advance of revenue recognition from service contracts. Investing activities Cash used for investing increased to $3.1 billion due to the $3.4 billion paid to acquire Enterprise, refer to Note 3 Business Combinations in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding the Acquisition. Financing activities In 2014, financing activities were a source of cash of $3.2 billion compared to uses of cash of $44.2 million and $49.4 million in 2013 and 2012. Financing activities were higher in 2014 primarily to fund the purchase price related to the acquisition of Enterprise, see further discussion below. In addition we paid deferred financing costs of $24.0 million related to this debt; these costs are capitalized in Zebras financial results. In 2013 and 2012, cash used for financing activities was primarily to repurchase shares of Zebras common stock. The following table shows our level of indebtedness and other information as of December 31, 2014 (in thousands): Term loan $ 1,050,000 Senior notes 2,200,000 Total indebtedness $ 3,250,000 Private Offering On October 15, 2014, Zebra completed a private offering of $1.05 billion aggregate principal of 7.25% Senior Notes due October 15, 2022 (the Senior Notes). Interest on the Senior Notes is payable in cash on April 15 and October 15 of each year, commencing on April 15, 2015. 38 Table of Contents The Indenture covering the Senior Notes contains certain covenants limiting among other things, the ability of Zebra and its restricted subsidiaries, with certain exceptions as described in the indenture, to; (i) incur indebtedness or issue certain preferred stock; (ii) incur liens; (iii) pay dividends or make distributions in respect of capital stock; (iv) purchase or redeem capital stock; (v) make investments or certain other restricted payments; (vi) sell assets; (vii) issue or sell stock of restricted subsidiaries; (viii) enter into transactions with stockholders or affiliates; or (ix) effect a consolidation or merger. On December 31, 2014, Zebra was in compliance with the covenants. New Credit Facilities On October 27, 2014, Zebra entered into a new credit agreement which provides for a term loan of $2.2 billion (Term Loan) and a revolving credit facility of $250.0 million (Revolving Credit Facility). Borrowings under the Term Loan bear interest at a variable rate plus an applicable margin, subject to an all-in floor of 4.75%. As of December 31 2014, the Term Loan interest rate was 4.75%. Interest payments are payable quarterly, starting January 27, 2015. The October 2012 revolving credit agreement for $250.0 million with a syndicate of banks was terminated upon execution of this credit agreement. The Company has entered into interest rate swaps to manage interest rate risk on its long-term debt. See Note 13 Derivative Instruments in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. The credit agreement requires Zebra to prepay the Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facility, under certain circumstances or transactions defined in the credit agreement. Also, Zebra may voluntarily prepay its obligations under the Term Loan at any time; however, we are required to make scheduled quarterly principal payments of $5.5 million beginning June 30, 2015, with the balance of $2.1 billion due on October 27, 2021. The Revolving Credit Facility is available for working capital and other general corporate purposes including letters of credit. The amount (including letters of credit) shall not exceed $250.0 million. As of December 31, 2014, Zebra had established letters of credit amounting to $2.9 million, which reduced funds available for other borrowings under the agreement to $247.1 million. The Revolving Credit Facility will mature and the commitments thereunder will terminate on October 27, 2019. Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility bear interest at a variable rate plus an applicable margin. The applicable margin for borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility ranges from 2.25% to 2.75% depending on Zebras consolidated total secured net leverage ratio which is evaluated on a quarterly basis. Interest payments are payable quarterly. As of December 31 2014, Zebra did not have any borrowings against the Revolving Credit Facility. The Revolving Credit Facility contains certain covenants limiting among other things, the ability of Zebra and its restricted subsidiaries, with certain exceptions as described in the agreement, to: (i) incur indebtedness, make guarantees or issue certain equity securities; (ii) pay dividends on its capital stock or redeem, repurchase or retire its capital stock; (iii) make certain investments, loans and acquisitions; (iv) sell certain assets or issue capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; (v) create liens or engage in sale-leaseback transactions; (vi) merge, consolidate or transfer or dispose of substantially all of their assets; (vii) engage in certain transactions with affiliates; (viii) alter the business it conducts; (ix) amend, prepay, redeem or purchase subordinated debt and (x) enter into agreements limiting subsidiary dividends and distributions. The Revolving Credit Facility also requires Zebra to comply with a financial covenant consisting of a quarterly maximum consolidated Total Secured Net Leverage Ratio, (as defined in the Revolving Credit Facility). This test is only required to be performed at the end of the fiscal quarter and when 20% of the commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility have been drawn and remain outstanding. The Term Loan and obligations under the Revolving Credit Facility are collateralized by a security interest in substantially all of Zebras assets as defined in the security agreement and guaranteed by its direct and indirect wholly-owned existing and future domestic restricted subsidiaries, subject to certain exceptions. Certain domestic subsidiaries of Zebra (the Guarantor Subsidiaries) guarantee the Notes, the Term Loan and the Revolving Credit Facility on a senior basis: For the twelve months ended December 31, 2014, after giving pro forma effect to the acquisition of Enterprise, the non-Guarantor Subsidiaries would have (a) accounted for approximately 44% of our total revenue and (b) held approximately 16% of our total assets and approximately 15.6%, or $704.1 million, of our total liabilities including trade payables but excluding intercompany liabilities. On December 31, 2014, Zebra was in compliance with the covenants. 39 Table of Contents Historically, significant portions of our cash inflows were generated by our operations. We currently expect this trend to continue throughout 2015. We believe that our existing cash and investments, borrowings available under our Revolving Credit Facility, together with cash flows expected from operations will be sufficient to meet expected operating, capital expenditure and debt obligation requirements for the next 12 months. Zebra had $268.4 million as of December 31, 2014, and $251.7 million as of December 31, 2013 of foreign cash and investments, which are primarily invested in U.S. dollar-denominated holdings. Management believes that existing capital resources and funds generated from operations are sufficient to finance anticipated capital requirements. Contractual Obligations Zebras contractual obligations as of December 31, 2014 were (in thousands): Payments due by period Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years Operating lease obligations $ 160,517 $ 33,991 $ 48,850 $ 32,694 $ 44,982 Deferred compensation liability 6,008 6,008 Enterprise purchase price adjustment 48,806 48,806 Long-term debt principal payments 3,250,000 16,500 44,000 44,000 3,145,500 Interest payments 1,187,971 178,777 344,168 339,230 325,796 Interest rate swap 55,534 3,099 19,584 24,522 8,329 Purchase obligations 392,974 392,974 Total $ 5,101,810 $ 674,147 $ 456,602 $ 440,446 $ 3,530,615 Purchase obligations are for purchases made in the normal course of business to meet operational requirements, primarily raw materials and finished goods. Uncertain tax position liabilities of $18.9 million have been excluded from the above table as we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authority.