Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, because they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and growth prospects. These risks are not the only risks we face. Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial. No priority or significance is intended by, nor should be attached to, the order in which the risk factors appear. General Business and Industry Risks The Company is vulnerable to the potential difficulties associated with the increase in the complexity of our business. We have expanded operations and customer offerings over the last several years both organically and through acquisitions. This has caused increased complexities in the business. We believe our future success depends in part on our ability to manage our growth and increased complexities of our business. The following factors could present difficulties to us: Managing our distribution channel partners and end-user customers; Managing our contract manufacturing and supply chain; Manufacturing an increased number of products; Developing and managing custom offerings; Managing parties to whom we have outsourced portions of our business operations; Managing administrative and operational burdens; Managing stakeholder interests including customer, investor and employee social responsibility matters; Maintaining and improving information technology infrastructure to support growth and to manage cybersecurity threats; Managing the integration of acquisitions; Managing logistical problems common to complex, expansive operations; Managing our international operations; Managing the cost of labor including any union organizing efforts and our responses to such efforts; and Attracting, developing and retaining individuals with the requisite technical expertise to develop new technologies and introduce new offerings. Inability to consummate future acquisitions at appropriate prices could negatively impact our growth rate and stock price. Our ability to expand revenues, earnings, and cash flow depends in part upon our ability to identify and successfully acquire and integrate businesses at appropriate prices and to realize anticipated synergies. Acquisitions can be difficult to identify and consummate due to competition among prospective buyers and the need to satisfy applicable closing conditions and obtain antitrust and other regulatory approval on acceptable terms. Macroeconomic factors, such as rising inflation and interest rates, capital market volatility, etc., could negatively influence our future acquisition opportunities. The Company could encounter difficulties in any acquisition it undertakes, including unanticipated integration problems and business disruption. Acquisitions could also dilute stockholder value and adversely affect operating results. An acquisition may present business issues which are new to us. The process of integrating any acquired business, technology, product, service, software, or solution into our operations or offerings may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Integration of an acquired company also may consume considerable management time and attention, which could otherwise be available for ongoing operations and the further development of our existing business. These and other factors may result in benefits of an acquisition not being fully realized. Acquisitions also may involve a number of risks, including, but not limited to: Difficulties and uncertainties in retaining the customers, distributors, vendors, or other business relationships from the acquired entities; The loss of key employees of acquired entities; Disruptions in our business due to difficulties integrating and reorganizing operations, offerings, technologies and personnel; The ability of acquired entities to fulfill their customers obligations; The inheritance of known, and the discovery of unknown, issues or liabilities; Pre-closing and post-closing acquisition-related earnings charges could adversely impact operating results and cash flows in any given period, and the impact may be substantially different from period to period; The failure of acquired entities to meet or exceed expected operating results or cash flows could result in impairment of goodwill or intangible assets acquired; 13 Table of Contents The ability to implement internal controls and accounting systems necessary to be compliant with requirements applicable to public companies subject to SEC reporting, which could result in misstated financial reports; and Future acquisitions could result in changes such as potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities and the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities. The Company may not be able to continue to develop offerings to address user needs effectively. To be successful, we must adapt to rapidly changing technological and application needs by continually improving our offerings, as well as introducing new offerings to address user demands. The Companys industry is impacted by: Evolving industry standards; Frequent new offering introductions; Evolving distribution channels; Increasing demand for customized offerings; Changing customer demands; and Changing security protocols. Future success will depend on our ability to effectively and economically adapt in this evolving environment. We could incur substantial costs if we must modify our business to adapt to these changes, and may even be unable to adapt to these changes. The Company participates in a competitive industry, which may become more competitive. Competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technology and changes in customer requirements. The markets that we serve are rapidly evolving and highly competitive. Some of our offerings are in direct competition with similar or alternative offerings provided by our competitors. In addition, we often compete with local competitors that may have a substantial advantage in attracting customers in their countries due to more established branding in that country, greater knowledge with respect to the tastes and preferences of customers residing in that country or their focus on a single market. Because of the potential for consolidation in any market, such competitors may become larger, and increased size could permit them to operate in wider geographic areas. To remain competitive, we believe we must continue to effectively and economically: Identify and evolve with customer needs, emerging technologies, and industry trends; Monitor disruptive technologies and business models; Innovate, develop and timely commercialize new technologies and offerings; Competitively price our offerings; Offer superior customer service; Provide offerings of high quality and reliability; Provide dependable and efficient distribution networks; and Attract, retain and develop employees with technical expertise and an understanding of our industry and customer needs. We cannot assure that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or technologies. Current or future competitors are likely to continue to develop and introduce new and enhanced offerings that could cause a decline in market acceptance of our offerings, or result in the loss of major customers. Increased competition in our industry may result in price reductions, lower gross profit margins, and loss of market share, and could require increased spending on research and development, sales and marketing, and customer support. In addition, we may not be able to effectively anticipate and react to new entrants in the marketplace competing with our offerings. Further, as we expand into markets beyond our core offerings, we may face well established competitors, placing us at a disadvantage in a new competitive landscape. Some competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships with suppliers or companies that produce complementary offerings, which may create additional pressures on our competitive position in the marketplace. An inability to compete successfully could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Geopolitical turmoil, including regional conflicts, terrorism and war could result in market instability, which could negatively impact our business results.We are a global company with international operations, and we sell our offerings in countries throughout the world. The war between Russia and Ukraine, conflicts in the Middle East region, the risk of increased tensions between China and Taiwan, and other instances of geopolitical turmoil could limit our ability to sell our offerings, and could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. For instance, on March 5, 2022, we suspended our business operations in Russia. While this suspension has not had, and is not expected to have, a material impact on our operating results, it is not possible to predict the broader or long-term consequences of the war between Russia and Ukraine, which may include further sanctions, embargoes, regional instability, geopolitical shifts and adverse effects on macroeconomic conditions, cybersecurity conditions, currency exchange rates, financial markets and energy markets. Geopolitical turmoil and uncertainty could have a negative impact on our ability to sell and ship our offerings, collect payments from and support customers in certain regions, and could increase the costs, risks and adverse impacts from supply chain and 14 Table of Contents logistics challenges. In addition, geopolitical turmoil could result in: increased energy costs, which could increase the cost of manufacturing, selling and delivering our offerings; inflation, which has resulted in increases in the cost of manufacturing, reduced customer purchasing power, increased price pressures, and reduced or cancelled orders; increased risk of cybersecurity attacks; and market instability, any of which could adversely impact our financial results. Operational Risks The Company has substantial operations and sells a significant portion of our offerings outside of the U.S. and purchases important components, including final offerings, from suppliers located outside the U.S., many of whom with operations concentrated in China. Shipments to non-U.S. customers are expected to continue to account for a material portion of Net sales. We also expect to continue the use of third-party contract manufacturing services with non-U.S. production and assembly operations for our offerings. Risks associated with operations, sales, and purchases include: Fluctuating foreign currency rates could restrict sales, increase costs of purchasing, and affect collection of receivables outside of the U.S.; Volatility in foreign credit markets may affect the financial well-being of our customers and suppliers; Violations of anti-corruption laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, could result in large fines and penalties; Geopolitical turmoil, including popular uprisings, regional conflicts, terrorism and war could limit or prohibit our ability to transfer certain technologies, to sell our offerings, and could result in additional closure of facilities in sanctioned countries (e.g., the ongoing military conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and in the Middle East region, and changes in China-Taiwan and U.S.-China relations); Adverse changes in, or uncertainty of, local business laws or practices, including the following: Imposition of burdensome trade policies, including tariffs, quotas, taxes, trade barriers, or capital flow restrictions; Restrictions on the export or import of technology may reduce or eliminate the ability to sell in, or purchase from, certain markets; Political and economic instability and uncertainty may reduce demand for our offerings or put our assets at risk; Limited intellectual property protection in certain countries may limit recourse against infringement on our offerings or may cause us to refrain from selling in certain geographic territories; Staffing may be difficult including higher than anticipated turnover; A government-controlled exchange rate and limitations on the convertibility of currencies, including the Chinese Yuan; Transportation delays and customs related delays may affect production and distribution of our offerings; Difficulty in effectively managing and overseeing operations that are distant and remote from corporate headquarters; and Integration and enforcement of laws vary significantly among jurisdictions and may change over time. Third parties may allege that the Company or our suppliers infringe upon their intellectual property rights. Periodically, third parties claim that we or our suppliers infringe upon their intellectual property rights. As we continue to expand our business and incorporate new technologies into our offerings, these types of claims may increase. Any of these claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and divert the attention of key personnel. To the extent a violation of a third-partys patent or other intellectual property right is established, we may be prevented from operating our business as planned and we may be required to pay costly judgments or settlements, enter into costly licensing arrangements or use a non-infringing method to accomplish our business objectives, any of which could have a negative impact on our operating margins. SeeItem 3, Legal Proceedings for additional information regarding current patent litigation. The inability to protect intellectual property could harm our reputation, and our competitive position may be materially damaged. Our intellectual property is valuable and provides us with certain competitive advantages. We use copyrights, patents, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and contracts to protect these proprietary rights. Despite these precautions, third parties may be able to copy or reproduce aspects of our intellectual property and our offerings or, without authorization, to misappropriate and use information we regard as trade secrets. Additionally, the laws of certain countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S., and we might not be able to protect our intellectual property adequately against unauthorized third-party use in certain jurisdictions. Additionally, the intellectual property rights we are able to obtain may not be sufficient to provide us with a competitive advantage and may be successfully challenged, invalidated, circumvented, or infringed. In any infringement litigation that the Company may undertake to protect our intellectual property, any award of monetary damages may be unlikely or very difficult to obtain, and any such award we may receive may not be commercially valuable. Furthermore, efforts to enforce or protect our proprietary rights may be ineffective and could result in the invalidation or narrowing of the scope of our intellectual property and may cause us to incur substantial 15 Table of Contents litigation costs. Because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of the Companys confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. Certain of our offerings rely on intellectual property, technologies, software, and content developed by, or licensed from, third parties. Certain of our offerings rely on intellectual property developed by, or licensed from, third parties, and we may not be able to maintain our relationships with such third parties or enter into similar relationships in the future on reasonable terms or at all. For example, certain of our devices are dependent on third parties continued development and support of operating systems and software application ecosystem infrastructures, and on such third parties approval of our implementations of their operating systems and associated applications. If such parties chose to, or became required to, cease continued development or support of such operating systems or to otherwise restrict our access to such operating systems, we would be required to change our strategy for such devices. Our financial results could be negatively impacted by a resulting shift away from the operating systems we currently use and the associated applications ecosystem could be costly and difficult. A strategy shift could increase the burden of development on the Company and potentially create a gap in our portfolio for a period of time, which could competitively disadvantage us. Emerging issues related to the development and use of artificial intelligence (AI) could give rise to legal or regulatory action, damage our reputation or otherwise materially harm our business. Our development and use of AI technology, including generative AI, in our offerings and operations remains in the early phases. While we aim to develop and use AI responsibly and have implemented certain governance programs to attempt to mitigate ethical and legal issues presented by its development and use, we may ultimately be unsuccessful in identifying or resolving such issues before they arise. If we develop AI technologies for our offerings, or use AI technology to support our internal operations, that are controversial because of their actual or perceived impact on human rights, privacy, employment, or other social, economic or political issues, we may experience reputational harm or employee attrition. AI technologies can be complex, rapidly evolving, and expensive to develop and use. Flaws in AI technologies that we develop might lead to decreased market acceptance with regard to certain of our offerings. AI technologies that we use to support our operations may carry inherent risks related to: data privacy and security, such as the intended or unintended transmission of personal data or of proprietary or sensitive information; copyright, such as the incorporation of third-party copyrighted materials into large language models; data quality and bias, such as the use of inaccurate, incomplete, outdated, or biased information; and challenges implementing and maintaining AI tools, such as the complications arising from integrating such tools with existing systems and practices, and from reliance on third-party AI vendors. We also face competition from other companies that are developing their own AI technologies. Other companies may develop AI technologies that are similar or superior to our technologies or are more cost-effective to develop and deploy. Moreover, AI technology is subject to rapidly evolving domestic and international laws and regulations, which could impose significant costs and obligations on the company. For example, in 2024 the European Artificial Intelligence Act (EU) 2024/1689 went into force and established requirements and obligations for developers and deployers of AI systems. Other emerging legal frameworks may pertain to data privacy, data protection, and the ethical use of AI, as well as clarifying intellectual property considerations. We may not always be able to anticipate how to respond to such legal frameworks, and our obligation to comply with them could entail significant costs, negatively affect our business, or limit our ability to develop and use AI technology. Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt our business operations. We rely on information technology systems throughout the Company to keep financial records, process orders, manage inventory, coordinate shipments to distributors and customers, maintain confidential and proprietary information, and other technical activities, and operate other critical functions such as internet connectivity, network communications, and email. In addition to Company-owned systems, the Company also stores confidential and proprietary information through cloud-based services that are hosted by third parties where we have less influence over security protocols. Like many companies, we continually strive to meet industry information security standards relevant to our business. We periodically perform vulnerability assessments, remediate vulnerabilities, review log/access, perform system maintenance, manage network perimeter protection, implement and manage disaster recovery testing, and provide periodic educational sessions to our employees to foster awareness of schemes to access sensitive information. Despite our implementation of a variety of security controls and measures, as well as those of our third-party vendors, there is no assurance that such actions will be sufficient to prevent a cybersecurity incident. Further, as cybersecurity threats continue to rapidly evolve and become increasingly more difficult to detect and defend against, our current security controls and measures may not be effective in preventing cybersecurity incidents and we may not have the capabilities to detect and remediate certain vulnerabilities, which may allow unremediated vulnerabilities to persist over long periods of time. Accordingly, we may fail to remediate such vulnerabilities in time to prevent a cybersecurity incident. A cybersecurity incident could include an attempt to gain unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or causing operational disruption. Phishing and other types of attempts to obtain unauthorized information or access are often sophisticated and difficult to detect or defeat. 16 Table of Contents Cybersecurity incidents can take a variety of forms including unintentional events as well as deliberate attacks by individuals, groups and sophisticated organizations, such as state sponsored organizations or nation-state actors. Further, certain of our third-party vendors have limited access to our employee and customer data and may use this data in unauthorized ways. Any such cybersecurity incident or misuse of our employees or customers data may lead to a material disruption of our core business systems, the loss or corruption of confidential business information, and/or the disclosure of personal data that in each case could result in an adverse business impact as well as possible damage to our brand. This could also lead to a public disclosure or theft of private intellectual property and a possible loss of customer confidence. In addition, any failure on the part of one of our contract manufacturers, distributors or resellers to maintain the security of its systems or data, including via the penetration of their network security or ransomware, could result in business disruption to us and damage to our reputation. While we have experienced and expect to continue to experience cybersecurity threats and incidents, there have been no material incidents incurred to-date at the Company. However, new technologies and systems being installed with the intent of advancing capabilities and processing efficiencies may introduce new vulnerabilities which could outpace the Companys ability to properly identify, assess and address such vulnerabilities. Further, new business models that rely heavily on global digitization, use of the cloud, big data, mobile and social media could expose the Company to even more cybersecurity threats and incidents. If our core business operations, or that of one of our third-party vendors, were to be breached, this could affect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of our systems and data. Any failure on our part, or by our third-party vendors, to maintain the security of data we are required to protect, including via the penetration of our network security and the misappropriation of confidential and proprietary information, could result in: business disruption; damage to our reputation; financial obligations to third parties; fines, penalties, regulatory proceedings; private litigation with potentially large costs; deterioration in our suppliers, distributors, and customers confidence in us; as well as other competitive disadvantages. Such failures to maintain the security of data could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Although we maintain insurance related to cybersecurity risks, there can be no assurance that our insurance will cover the particular cybersecurity incident at issue or that such coverage will be sufficient. While we continue to perform security due diligence, there is always the possibility of a significant breach. Cybersecurity incidents affecting our systems or our customers systems may negatively impact our business. Our offerings are used in customer environments and have the possibility of being subject to a cybersecurity incident. Our customers may use certain of our products, solutions and services to transmit and/or process personal data and other sensitive information, and a cybersecurity incident could result in disclosure of confidential information or disrupt the availability of the customers data and systems. Further, our customers may fail to adopt adequate security controls and measures, or may fail to timely update products and solutions deployed in their environment to install or enable security patches, which may result in cybersecurity vulnerabilities or incidents. The market perception of the effectiveness of our offerings and our reputation could also be harmed as a result of any actual or perceived cybersecurity breach that occurs in our network or in the network of a customer using our offerings, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our offerings, the systems of other vendors, or to actions of malicious parties. It is possible that such a breach, or a perceived breach, could result in: delays in, or loss of market acceptance of, our products, solutions or services; diversion of our resources; injury to our reputation; theft or misuse of our intellectual property or other assets; increased service and warranty expenses; and payment of damages. To date, we have had no material incidents related to the security of our offerings. Additionally, strategic customers may negotiate specific controls and we may incur additional costs to comply with such customer-specific controls. We may incur liabilities as a result of product failures due to actual or apparent design or manufacturing defects. We have been subject to product liability claims, and may continue to be subject to such claims, including claims for property or economic damages or personal injury, where damages arose, and may continue to arise, from our products as a result of actual or apparent design or manufacturing defects. In addition, such design or manufacturing defects may occur not only in our own designed offerings, but also in components provided by third-party suppliers. We seek to limit such risk through insurance protection as well as product design, manufacturing quality control processes, product testing and contractual indemnification from suppliers. Although there have been no material claims to-date at the Company, due to the growing size of the Companys installed offering base and growing number of applications in which our offerings can be used, an actual or alleged design or manufacturing defect could result in product recalls, injury to our reputation, and customer service costs or legal costs that could have material adverse effects on our financial results. Defects or errors in the Companys software offerings, or third-party software included in or upon which our offerings rely, could harm our reputation, result in significant cost to us, and impair our ability to market such offerings. Our software, third-party software included in our offerings, or servers and infrastructure may contain undetected errors, defects, or bugs. Although we have not suffered significant harm from any errors, defects, or bugs, we may discover significant errors, defects, or bugs in the future that we may not be able to correct or correct in a timely manner. Any future errors, defects, or bugs found in our offerings or servers and infrastructure may result in delays in, or loss of market acceptance of, our offerings; inability to deliver our offerings; diversion of resources; injury to reputation; increased service and warranty expenses; and payment of damages; which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Our business success depends on our ability to attract, retain, develop and motivate key personnel. Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected by increased competition for highly skilled employees, higher employee turnover, or 17 Table of Contents increased compensation and benefit costs. The future success of the Company is substantially dependent on the continued services and contributions of key personnel, including senior management and other highly skilled employees. The experience, industry knowledge, and skill sets of our employees materially benefit our operations and performance, and the ability to attract, retain, develop, and motivate highly skilled employees is important to our long-term success. Skilled employees in our industry are in high demand and competition for their experience and skill sets is intense. The incentives and benefits we have available to attract, retain, and motivate employees may become less effective as employees seek new or different opportunities based on factors such as compensation, benefits, mobility, and flexibility that are different from what we offer. Although we strive to be an employer of choice, we may not be able to continue to successfully attract, retain, develop, or motivate key personnel in the future. Any disruption in the services of key personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. A natural or man-made disaster, or a widespread public health issue, may have a material impact on our global operations, our customers and our vendors, which could adversely impact our business results and financial condition. Natural and man-made disasters, and widespread public health issues including pandemics, may occur in the future and the Company is not able to predict to what extent or duration any such disruptions will have on our ability to maintain ordinary business operations. The Companys facilities and operations are subject to catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, civil unrest, terrorism, or other natural or man-made disasters. If any of our facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue, and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. A widespread public health issue could lead to global supply chain challenges, which could adversely impact our ability to procure certain components and could impact our ability to manufacture products and cause delays in delivery of our offerings to our customers. Health orders and safety protocols could further impact our on-site operations and our ability to manufacture, ship or deliver to customers. For example, in the event of another global pandemic like COVID-19, periodic spikes in widespread infection rates, and local outbreaks on our sites or our supplier, customer or vendor sites in spite of safety measures or vaccinations, could cause disruptions to our operations or those of our suppliers, customers, or vendors. Following a disruption to our business, the Company could require substantial recovery time, experience significant expenditures to resume operations, and lose significant sales. If such a disruption were to occur, we could breach agreements, our reputation could be harmed, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. The consequences of a natural and man-made disaster, or a widespread public health issue, could have a material impact on our global operations, our employees, our customers and our vendors, which could adversely impact our business results, operations, revenue, growth and overall financial condition. We are exposed to risks under large, multi-year contracts that may negatively impact our business. We enter into large, multi-year contracts with our customers that expose us to risks, including among others: (i) technological risks, especially when contracts involve new technology; (ii) financial risks, including the accuracy of estimates inherent in projecting costs associated with large, long-term contracts and the related impact on operating results; and (iii) cybersecurity risks, especially in offerings or managed services contracts with customers that process personal data. Recovery of front-loaded costs incurred on long-term managed services and software-based offerings contracts with customers is dependent on the continued viability of such customers. The insolvency of customers could result in a loss of anticipated future revenue attributable to that program or offering, which could have an adverse impact on our profitability. We enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event we fail to properly estimate our costs. If our initial cost estimates are incorrect, we can lose money on these contracts. Because many of these contracts involve new technologies and applications and require the Company to engage subcontractors and can last multiple years, unforeseen events, such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in the price of raw materials, problems with our subcontractors or suppliers, and other cost overruns, can result in the contract pricing becoming less favorable or even unprofitable to us and have an adverse impact on our financial results. In addition, a significant increase in inflation rates could have an adverse impact on the profitability of longer-term contracts. We utilize the services of subcontractors to perform under many of our contracts, and the inability of our subcontractors to perform in a timely and compliant manner could negatively impact our performance obligations as the prime contractor. We engage subcontractors on many of our contracts and our use of subcontractors has and may continue to increase as we expand our global business. Our subcontractors may further subcontract performance and may supply third-party products and software. We may have disputes with our subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by a subcontractor and the functionality, warranty and indemnities of products, software, and services supplied by a subcontractor. We are not always successful in passing along customer requirements to our subcontractors, and thus in some cases may be required to absorb contractual risks from our customers without corresponding back-to-back coverage from our subcontractors. Our subcontractors may not be able to acquire or maintain the quality of the materials, components, subsystems, and services they supply, or secure preferred warranty and indemnity coverage from their suppliers, which might result in greater product returns, service problems, warranty claims and costs, and regulatory compliance issues and could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents We have outsourced portions of certain business operations such as repair, distribution, engineering services, and information technology services and may outsource additional business operations, which limits our control over these business operations and exposes us to additional risk as a result of the actions of our outsource partners. We are not able to directly control certain business operations that we outsource. Our outsource partners may not prioritize our business over that of their other customers and they may not meet our desired level of service, cost reductions, or other metrics. In some cases, our outsource partners actions may result in our being found to be in violation of laws or regulations, such as import or export regulations. As many of our outsource partners operate outside of the U.S., our outsourcing activity exposes us to information security vulnerabilities and increases our global risks. In addition, we are exposed to the financial viability of our outsource partners. Once a business activity is outsourced, we may be contractually prohibited from, or may not practically be able to, bring such activity back within the Company or move it to another outsource partner. The actions of our outsource partners could result in reputational damage to us and could negatively impact our financial results. Further, we have from time-to-time, and in certain instances will continue to, transition our outsourced operations to new service providers and/or to different geographies. Such transition activities between new or existing outsource partners or across different geographies, as well as insourcing activities, could result in additional cost, time and management attention in order to effectively manage the transition, which could negatively impact our financial results. Failure of our suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers, and representatives to use acceptable legal or ethical business practices could negatively impact our business. It is our policy to require suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers, and third-party sales representatives (TPSRs) to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules, and regulations, including those regarding working conditions, employment practices, environmental compliance, anti-corruption, and trademark and copyright licensing. However, we do not control their labor and other business practices. If one of our suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers, or TPSRs violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are regarded as unethical, the shipment of finished products to us could be interrupted, orders could be canceled, relationships could be terminated, and our reputation could be damaged. If one of our suppliers or subcontractors fails to procure necessary license rights to trademarks, copyrights, or patents, legal action could be taken against us that could impact the salability of the Companys offerings, and expose us to financial obligations to a third party. Any of these events could have a negative impact on our sales and results of operations. We rely on third-party dealers, distributors, and resellers to sell many of our offerings, and their failure to effectively bring our offerings to market may negatively affect our results of operations and financial results. In addition to our own sales force, we provide our offerings through a variety of third-party dealers, distributors, and resellers who may also market other offerings that compete with ours. Failure of one or more of our third-party dealers, distributors, or resellers to effectively promote our offerings could affect our ability to bring offerings to market and have a negative impact on our results of operations. Any changes to our channel program may cause some of our third-party dealers, distributors, or resellers to exit the program due to modifications to the program structure, which may reduce our ability to bring offerings to market and could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Third-party dealers, distributors or resellers could also face additional costs or credit concerns resulting from an uncertain economic environment that would cause such parties to reduce purchases of our offerings, thereby causing a negative impact on our financial results. Some of these third-parties are smaller and more likely to be impacted by a significant decrease in available credit that could result from a weakness in the financial markets. If credit pressures or other financial difficulties result in insolvency for third-party dealers, distributors, or resellers and we are unable to successfully transition end-customers to purchase our offerings from other third-parties or from us directly, it may cause, and in some cases, has caused, a negative impact on our financial results. Final assembly of certain of our products is performed by third-party electronics manufacturers. We may be dependent on these third-party electronics manufacturers as a sole-source of supply for the manufacture of such products. A failure by such manufacturers to provide manufacturing services to us as we require, or any disruption in such manufacturing services up to and including a catastrophic shut-down, may adversely affect our business results. Because we rely on these third-party electronics manufacturers to manufacture our products, we may incur increased business continuity risks. We are not able to exercise direct control over the assembly or related operations of certain of our products. If these third-party manufacturers experience business difficulties or fail to meet our manufacturing needs, then we may be unable to satisfy customer demand, lose sales, and be unable to maintain customer relationships. Longer production lead times may result in shortages of certain products and inadequate inventories during periods of unanticipated higher demand. Without such third parties continuing to manufacture our products, we may have no other means of final assembly of certain of our products until we are able to secure the manufacturing capability at another facility or develop an alternative manufacturing facility. This transition could be costly and time consuming. We have taken actions to diversify, and may take additional actions to diversify in the future, our product sourcing footprint. Such actions have, and may again, result in additional costs. Our future operating results depend on our ability to purchase a sufficient amount of materials, parts, and components, as well as services and software to meet the demands of customers. We source some of our components from sole-source suppliers. 19 Table of Contents Any disruption to our suppliers or significant increase in the price of supplies, inclusive of transportation costs, or change in customer demand could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Our ability to meet customers demands depends, in part, on our ability to obtain in a timely manner an adequate delivery of quality materials, parts, and components, as well as services and software from our suppliers, and our ability to deliver offerings to our customers. In addition, certain supplies are available only from a single source or limited sources and we may not be able to diversify sources in a timely manner. If demand for our offerings increases from our current expectations or if suppliers are unable or unwilling to meet our demand for other reasons, including as a result of natural disasters, public health issues, severe weather conditions, or financial issues, we could experience an interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies that could have a negative impact on our business. We have experienced shortages in the past that have negatively impacted our results of operations and may experience such shortages in the future. At times we have and may continue to execute multi-year purchase commitments with suppliers that contain minimum spend thresholds, which we are obligated to fulfill even if customer demand declines, and may require that we purchase inventory that exceeds our forecasted demand. In addition, volatility in customer demand, offering availability, and transport costs, may result in increased operating input costs, elevated inventory levels, as well as inventory-related losses. Also, credit constraints at our suppliers could cause us to accelerate payment of accounts payable by us, impacting our cash flow. In addition, our current contracts with certain suppliers may be canceled or not extended by such suppliers and, therefore, not afford us with sufficient protection against a reduction or interruption in supplies. Moreover, in the event any of these suppliers breach their contracts with us, our legal remedies associated with such a breach may be insufficient to compensate us for any damages it may suffer. Our order backlog may not be a reliable indicator of our future operating results.Our order backlog may be fulfilled several quarters following receipt of a purchase order, either due to customer schedules or delays caused by supply chain constraints, which may negatively impact our ability to convert our order backlog into revenue. If we experience a significant disruption in our IT systems, our business, reputation, and operating results could be adversely affected. Our business processes depend on our IT systems, and the IT systems and processes of third parties to provide offerings, maintain financial records, retain sensitive data such as intellectual property, proprietary business information, and data related to customers, suppliers, and business partners, process orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers and operate other critical functions. Disruptions to our IT systems from system failures, shutdowns, implementation of new operational systems or software or upgrades to existing systems and software, and other events, including disruptions at our cloud computing, server, systems, and other third-party IT service providers, could interfere with our operations, interrupt order processing and shipments, damage customer and business partner relationships, and negatively impact our reputation. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, operating results and financial condition, and no assurance can be given that our efforts to reduce the risk of such events will be successful. Financial and Market Risks The impact of trade policy changes in the United States and corresponding actions by other countries in which the Company does business could adversely affect our financial performance.The Company currently imports a significant percentage of our offerings into the U.S., and international trade disputes and increased tariffs between the U.S. and other countries in which the Company does business, including China, could negatively impact the Companys financial performance. Certain of our suppliers and other entities with whom we do business have operations concentrated in China and other non-U.S. countries. Their ability to supply materials to us, purchase our offerings, or otherwise work with us is affected by their ability to do business in such non-U.S. countries. If the U.S.s relationship with other countries results in additional trade disputes, trade protection measures, retaliatory actions, tariffs and increased barriers, policies that favor domestic industries, or increased import or export licensing requirements or restrictions, then our operations may be adversely affected due to such changes in the economic and political ecosystem in which our suppliers and other entities with whom we do business operate. Although the Company has taken actions to diversify its product sourcing footprint, these efforts may not be sufficient to mitigate negative impacts on the Companys financial performance resulting from certain changes to trade policies. 20 Table of Contents Our exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations on cross-border transactions and the translation of local currency results into U.S. dollars could negatively impact our results of operations. We provide our offerings globally, and higher volatility and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could have a significant impact on our reported consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, which are presented in U.S. dollars. Accordingly, significant changes in foreign exchange rates, particularly the Euro, British Pound Sterling and Czech Koruna, has had in the past, and could continue to, cause fluctuations in the reported results of our businesses operations that could negatively affect our results of operations. Additionally, the strengthening of certain currencies such as the U.S. dollar potentially exposes us to competitive threats from lower-cost producers in other countries. Further, our sales are translated into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes, and the strengthening of the U.S. dollar has in the past, and could continue to, result in unfavorable translation effects as the results of non-U.S. locations are translated into U.S. dollars. From time to time, we may use derivative financial instruments, including foreign currency exchange contracts, to manage foreign exchange rate risks. However, our hedging strategies may be ineffective, may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from foreign exchange rate variations, or may result in losses. Taxing authority challenges may lead to tax payments exceeding current reserves. We are subject to, and may become subject to, ongoing tax examinations in various jurisdictions. As a result, we may record incremental tax expense based on expected outcomes of such matters. In addition, we may adjust previously reported tax reserves based on expected results of these examinations. Such adjustments could result in an increase or decrease to the Companys effective tax rate and cash flows. Future changes in tax law in various jurisdictions around the world and income tax holidays could have a material impact on our effective tax rate, foreign rate differential, future income tax expense, and cash flows. Forecasting our estimated annual effective tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty, and there may be material differences between our forecasted and actual tax rates. Forecasts of our income tax position and effective tax rate are complex, subject to uncertainty and periodic updates because our income tax position for each year combines the effects of a mix of profits earned and losses incurred by us in various tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates, as well as changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the impact of various accounting rules and changes to these rules, the results of examinations by various tax authorities, and the impact of any acquisition, business combination, disposition or other reorganization, or financing transaction. As a multinational corporation, we conduct our business in many countries and are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions. The taxation of our business is subject to the application of multiple, and sometimes conflicting, tax laws and regulations, as well as multinational tax conventions. Many countries have recently adopted, or are considering the adoption of, revisions to their respective tax laws based on the on-going reports issued by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD)/G20 Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) Project, which could materially impact our tax liability due to our organizational structure and significant operations outside of the U.S. Our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic distribution of our worldwide earnings or losses resulting from our structure and operating model, the tax regulations and tax holidays in each geographic region, and the availability of tax credits and carry-forwards. The application of tax laws and regulations is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment, and uncertainty. Tax laws themselves are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation, and the evolution of regulations and court rulings. Consequently, taxing authorities may impose tax assessments or judgments against us that could materially impact our tax liability and/or our effective income tax rate. Economic conditions and financial market disruptions may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Adverse economic conditions or reduced and/or changes in the timing and amount of information technology spending may negatively impact our business. General disruption of financial markets and a related general economic downturn or uncertainty could adversely affect our business and financial condition through a reduction in demand for our offerings by our customers. If a downturn were severe enough, it could require further impairment testing and write-downs of goodwill and other intangible assets. Cost reduction actions have been and may be necessary in the future resulting in restructuring charges as well as changes in staffing levels which may strain our resources. If there is a downturn in the markets in which our customers operate, orders from customers in such markets may decline, be delayed or be cancelled. A tightening of financial credit or an increase in the cost of borrowing could adversely affect our customers, suppliers, outsourced manufacturers, and channel partners (e.g., distributors and resellers) from obtaining adequate credit for the financing of significant purchases. An economic downturn could also result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for our offerings; negatively impacting the ability to collect accounts receivable on a timely basis; result in additional reserves for uncollectible accounts receivable; and require additional reserves for inventory obsolescence. It is important that we are able to obtain many different types of insurance, and if we are not able to obtain insurance or exhaust our coverage, we may be forced to retain the risk. We have many types of insurance coverage and are also self-insured for some risks and obligations. Our third-party insurance coverage varies from time to time in both type and amount depending on availability, cost and our decisions with respect to risk retention. Economic conditions and uncertainties in global markets may adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain third-party insurance. In addition, our third-party insurance policies are subject to deductibles, policy limits, and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis.Further, certain types of coverages may be difficult or expensive to obtain. We self-insure against certain 21 Table of Contents business risks and expenses where we believe we can adequately self-insure against the anticipated exposure and risk or where insurance is either not deemed cost-effective or is not available. If the amount of our third-party insurance coverage is not available or adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, or to the extent we have elected to self-insure, we may be forced to bear substantial costs from an accident, incident, or claim. Losses not covered by insurance could be substantial and unpredictable and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our business. Our indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: We may experience difficulty in satisfying our obligations with respect to our existing indebtedness or future indebtedness; Our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or general corporate purposes may be impaired; We may be unable to create liens on certain assets to secure debt; Our subsidiary guarantors may not have sufficient assets or cash flow to allow them to guarantee new debt and existing debt; We may be at a competitive disadvantage with reduced flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changing conditions in the industry, including increased competition; and We may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in the business. Any or all of the above events or factors could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The risks that we face based on our outstanding indebtedness may intensify if we incur additional indebtedness or financing obligations in the future. We expect to fund our expenses and to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness from cash flow from operations. Our ability to meet our expenses and to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness when due depends on our future performance and ability to collect cash from our customers, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions in the markets where we operate and pressure from competitors. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flows from operations or if future borrowings are not available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before the maturity thereof, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, we may not be able to effect any of these actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our ability to restructure or refinance our indebtedness will depend on the condition of the capital and debt markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict business operations. The terms of anticipated or future debt instruments may limit or prevent us from taking any of these actions. If there were an event of default under any of the agreements relating to our outstanding indebtedness, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately. We cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default. Further, if we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under our secured debt, the holders of such debt could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. In addition, any event of default or declaration of acceleration under one debt instrument could also result in an event of default under one or more of our other debt instruments. As a result, any default by us on our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business and could impact our ability to satisfy the obligations in respect of our indebtedness. In addition, an event of default would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to access additional capital on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our use of derivative financial instruments to reduce interest rate risk may result in added volatility in our operating results. We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. However, we have utilized, and in the future may utilize, derivative financial instruments to reduce interest rate risk associated with our indebtedness. From time to time, we have entered into forward interest rate swap agreements to manage variable interest rate risk and effectively convert a portion of our indebtedness into a fixed rate loan. Under generally accepted accounting principles, changes in the fair values of such swap contracts would be reflected in our Consolidated Statements of Operations as a component of Interest expense, net if not hedged. Accordingly, the associated impact on our quarterly operating results would be directly related to changes in prevailing interest rates, and we would have a non-cash gain on such swaps if interest rates increase and vice versa in the event of an interest rates decrease. Consequently, if we enter into forward interest rate swap agreements to manage variable interest rate risk, such swaps could introduce additional volatility to our operating results. 22 Table of Contents Legal and Regulatory Risks We could be adversely impacted by changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters. Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our businesses, including, but not limited to, revenue recognition, business acquisition purchase price allocations, impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, inventories, tax matters, and litigation and other contingent liabilities are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates, or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition. New accounting guidance may also require systems and other changes that could increase our operating costs and/or change our financial statements. Laws and regulations relating to the handling of personal data may result in increased costs, legal claims, or fines against the Company. As part of our operations, the Company collects, uses, stores, and transfers personal data of third parties, employees and limited customer data in and across various jurisdictions. Laws and regulations relating to the handling of such personal data may result in increased costs, legal claims, or fines against the Company. Existing laws and emerging regulations may be inconsistent across jurisdictions and are subject to evolving and differing (sometimes conflicting) interpretations. Government officials, regulators and privacy advocates are increasingly scrutinizing how companies collect, process, use, store, share and transmit personal data, which may result in new interpretations of existing laws that impact our business. Compliance with these laws may require us to, among other things, make changes in services, business practices, or internal systems that may result in increased costs, lower revenue, reduced efficiency, or greater difficulty in competing with foreign-based firms.Further, there is no assurance that we will be able to meet additional requirements that may be imposed on the transfer of personal data without incurring expenses. We may experience reluctance or refusal by customers to purchase or continue to use our offerings due to concerns regarding their data protection obligations. Our actual or perceived failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or other obligations to which we may be subject, or to protect personal data from unauthorized access, use, or other processing, may subject the Company to enforcement actions and regulatory investigations, claims, legal proceedings or other actions, reputational harm and loss of goodwill, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial performance, and business. The unfavorable outcome of any pending or future litigation, arbitration, or administrative action could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. From time to time we are a party to litigation, arbitration, or administrative actions. Our financial results and reputation could be negatively impacted by unfavorable outcomes to any pending or future litigation or administrative actions, including those related to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, or other anti-corruption laws. There can be no assurances as to the favorable outcome of any litigation or administrative proceedings. In addition, it can be very costly to defend litigation or administrative proceedings and these costs could negatively impact our financial results. We are subject to a wide range of product regulatory and safety, consumer, worker safety, and environmental laws. Our operations and the products we manufacture and/or sell are subject to a wide range of product regulatory and safety, consumer, worker safety, and environmental laws and regulations. Compliance with such existing or future laws and regulations could subject us to future costs or liabilities, impact our production capabilities, constrict our ability to sell, expand or acquire facilities, restrict what offerings we can provide, and generally impact our financial performance. Some of these laws are environmental and relate to the use, disposal, remediation, emission and discharge of, and exposure to hazardous substances. These laws often impose liability and can require parties to fund remedial studies or actions regardless of fault. We continue to incur disposal costs and have ongoing remediation obligations. Environmental laws have tended to become more stringent over time and any new obligations under these laws could have a negative impact on our operations or financial performance. Laws focused on the energy efficiency of electronic products and accessories; recycling of both electronic products and packaging; reducing or eliminating certain hazardous substances in electronic products and accessories; and the transportation of batteries continue to expand significantly. Laws pertaining to accessibility features of electronic products, standardization of connectors and power supplies, the transportation of lithium-ion batteries, and other aspects are also proliferating. There are also demanding and rapidly changing laws around the globe related to issues such as product safety, radio interference, radio frequency radiation exposure, medical-related functionality, and consumer and social mandates pertaining to use of wireless or electronic equipment. These laws, and changes to these laws, could have a substantial impact on whether we can provide certain offerings, and on what capabilities and characteristics our offerings can or must include. These laws impact our products and negatively affect our ability to manufacture and sell products competitively. We expect these trends to continue. In addition, we anticipate that we will see increased demand to meet voluntary criteria related to reduction or elimination of certain constituents from our offerings, increasing energy efficiency, and providing additional accessibility. Increased public awareness and worldwide focus on environmental and climate change issues has led to legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions, and may result in more international, federal or regional requirements or 23 Table of Contents industry standards to reduce or mitigate global warming. ESG requirements and other increased regulation of climate change concerns could subject us to additional costs and restrictions and require us to make certain changes to our manufacturing practices and/or product designs, which could negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and competitive position. From time to time, we create and publish voluntary disclosures regarding ESG matters. Identification, assessment, and disclosure of such matters is complex. Many of the statements in such voluntary disclosures are based on our expectations and assumptions, which may require substantial discretion and forecasts about costs and future circumstances. However, if our ESG practices or business portfolio do not meet evolving investor or other stakeholder expectations and standards, then our reputation, our ability to attract or retain employees and our attractiveness as an investment, supplier, business partner, or acquiror could be negatively impacted. In addition, we note that certain ESG matters are becoming less voluntary as regulators, including the SEC, begin proposing and adopting regulations regarding ESG matters, including, but not limited to climate change-related matters. As we are subject to increased regulatory requirements, we could experience increased compliance-related costs and risks, including potential enforcement and litigation. Such ESG matters may also impact our suppliers and customers, which may compound or cause new impacts on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are dependent on the availability and use of certain bands within the radio frequency spectrum; our offerings may be subject to harmful interference from new or modified spectrum uses.The global demand for wireless communications has grown exponentially, and spurred competition for access among various networks and users. In response, regulators in various jurisdictions are reassessing spectrum allocations among users and considering whether to change the allocation of, or require sharing of, certain spectrum bands. Certain of our offerings are dependent on the use of licensed and unlicensed radio frequency spectrum for wireless voice, data, and video communications. The utility and reliability of such offerings may be adversely affected by the reallocation of radio frequency bands, other modifications of the permitted uses of relevant frequency bands, and interference from other services and equipment operating either in-band or in adjacent frequency bands, which may cause adverse impacts on our offerings and reduce demand for such offerings. Further, regulatory changes may necessitate modifications to certain of our offerings so they can continue to operate as expected. Item 1B.Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 1C. Cybersecurity Zebra takes a comprehensive approach to managing cybersecurity risk, starting with the integration of cybersecurity risk into our overall enterprise risk management framework, among other significant risks to the Company. Board Oversight Our Board of Directors is responsible for oversight of risks to the Company and is assisted by the Audit Committee in the oversight of cybersecurity risks.Management provides regular updates to the Board regarding the Companys key cybersecurity activities. In connection with its oversight, the Audit Committee monitors the quality and effectiveness of the Companys cybersecurity program, including security of its internal information technology systems and its products, services, and software solutions as well as our cybersecurity incident response plan and resources. Management provides quarterly updates to the Audit Committee about cybersecurity threat protection, detection, mitigation and remediation, including the overall status of the Companys cybersecurity program, results of third-party assessments, and recent cybersecurity threats. In addition, the Audit Committee reviews the Companys cybersecurity investment methodology to determine whether cybersecurity maturity improvements and risk reductions are being made. Managements Role Management is responsible for day-to-day cybersecurity risk management activities, including proactively identifying, assessing, prioritizing, managing and mitigating enterprise cybersecurity risks. Our Chief Financial Officer (CFO) is the accountable leader in executive management for Zebras IT and cybersecurity programs. The Chief Security Officer (CSO) is the senior-most security professional responsible for the implementation of the Companys cybersecurity, product security, and corporate/physical security programs, and reports to the CFO. The CSO also makes recommendations to the Companys executive management regarding the Companys cybersecurity risk mitigation priorities. The Companys current CSO has served in that role for Zebra since 2018. He is a recognized leader in the field of cybersecurity with over 15 years of global executive cybersecurity experience. 24 Table of Contents The Chief Information Officer (CIO) is a peer to the CSO, also reports to the CFO. The CIO and his team are responsible for executing cybersecurity risk mitigation plans. Zebras current CIO was appointed to the role in 2022 and has nearly 20 years of experience in managing IT functions. The Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) reports to the CSO and oversees the Companys Security Operations Center (SOC). The CISO establishes and oversees the execution of prioritized cybersecurity mitigation plans for the Company. Zebras current CISO was appointed to the role in 2018 and has held multiple leadership roles overseeing IT functions since joining the Company in 2004, including driving efforts within the cybersecurity function. Cybersecurity Risk Management The underlying controls of our cybersecurity risk management program are based on recognized industry practices and standards for cybersecurity and information technology, including the National Institute of Standards and Technology Cybersecurity Framework. Our approach to cybersecurity risk management includes the following key elements: Defense and On-going Monitoring Our SOC is responsible for the on-going monitoring and analysis of cybersecurity threats to the Company. The SOC evaluates cybersecurity incidents according to the Companys cyber incident response plan, appropriate cybersecurity incident playbook, and crisis communications cybersecurity incident plan. The Company also utilizes endpoint detection and response services as well as data forensic investigation services for additional capability and timely assistance with potential cybersecurity incidents. Technical Safeguards The Company utilizes various tactics for cybersecurity threat protection. We periodically perform vulnerability assessments, remediate vulnerabilities, review logs and access, perform system maintenance, manage network perimeter protection, and implement and manage disaster recovery testing.Further, Zebra relies on its information security management system supported by a comprehensive set of policies that directly align with ISO 27001 and are supported by System and Organization Controls 2 (SOC2) reports and external ISO 27001:2013 certification for certain parts of our business. Education and Awareness To foster employee awareness of cybersecurity threats, we provide periodic educational sessions to our employees, including annual training on general cybersecurity concepts and targeted educational opportunities that include real-life simulation and tabletop exercises. We also regularly conduct privacy and security summits that involve training and information sessions conducted by employees and by third parties. Third-Party Risk Management (TPRM) Our TPRM function focuses on mitigating cybersecurity risk from specific third-party vendor categories. This function performs initial TPRM assessments as part of the vendor selection process and regularly reassesses vendors based on vendor type and risk factors. While we have experienced and expect to continue to experience cybersecurity threats and incidents, there have been no material incidents incurred to-date at the Company. However, there can be no guarantee that our policies and procedures will be followed in every instance or that those policies and procedures will always be effective. Cybersecurity threats could materially affect our business strategy, results of operations, or financial condition, as further discussed in the risk factors in Part I, Item 1A of this report. Item 2.Properties Our corporate headquarters are located in Lincolnshire, Illinois; a northern suburb of Chicago. We also operate manufacturing, repair, distribution and warehousing, administrative, research, and sales facilities in other U.S. and international locations. As of December 31, 2024, the Company owned 3 laboratory and warehouse facilities located in the U.S., U.K., and Canada. As of December 31, 2024, the Company had a total of 111 leased facilities with locations spread globally; 29 of which are located in the U.S. and 82 of which are located in other countries. See Note 13, Leases in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to the Companys lease arrangements. We generally consider the productive capacity of our facilities to be adequate and sufficient for our requirements. The extent of utilization of each manufacturing facility varies throughout the year. Item 3.Legal Proceedings 25 Table of Contents See Note 14, Accrued Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of certain matters. Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 26 Table of Contents PART II Item 5.Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Stock Information Our Class A Common Stock is traded on the NASDAQ Stock Market, LLC under the symbol ZBRA. As of February 6, 2025, the last reported price for the Companys Class A Common Stock was $376.80 per share, and there were 78 registered stockholders of record for Zebras Class A Common Stock. The number of beneficial owners is substantially greater than the number of stockholders of record because a large portion of our Class A common stock is transacted through banks and brokers. Dividend Policy Since our initial public offering in 1991, we have not declared any cash dividends or distributions on our capital stock. We currently do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Treasury Shares The following table sets forth information with respect to repurchases of the Companys common stock for the three months ended December 31, 2024. Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs (1) Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (in millions) (1) September 29, 2024 - October 26, 2024 $ $ 877 October 27, 2024 - November 23, 2024 877 November 24, 2024 - December 31, 2024 80,256 387.20 80,256 846 Total 80,256 $ 80,256 $ 846 (1)On May 17, 2022, the Company announced that its Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program for up to $1 billion of its outstanding shares of common stock. This authorization augments the previous $1 billion share repurchase authorization which was announced on July 30, 2019 and completed in the fourth quarter of 2022. Repurchases may be affected from time to time through open market purchases, including pursuant to a pre-set trading plan meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5-1(c) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. As of December 31, 2024, the Company has cumulatively repurchased 539,574 shares of common stock for approximately $154 million, resulting in a remaining amount of share repurchases authorized under the plans of $846 million. Subsequent to the year ended December 31, 2024, the Company has repurchased 128,466 shares of common stock for approximately $50 million through February 6, 2025. 27 Table of Contents Stock Performance Graph The following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return, calculated on a dividend-reinvested basis, in Zebra Technologies Corporation Class A Common Stock, the S&P 500 Index, and the S&P 500 Information Technology Index for the five years ended December 31, 2024. The comparison assumes that $100 was invested in each of the Companys Class A Common Stock, the S&P 500 Index, and the S&P 500 Information Technology Index as of the market close on December 31, 2019. Note that historic stock price performance is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. Value at each year-end of $100 initial investment made on December 31, 2019 12/19 12/20 12/21 12/22 12/23 12/24 Zebra Technologies Corporation $ 100.00 $ 150.46 $ 233.01 $ 100.38 $ 107.00 $ 151.20 S&P 500 $ 100.00 $ 118.40 $ 152.39 $ 124.79 $ 157.59 $ 197.02 S&P 500 Information Technology $ 100.00 $ 143.89 $ 193.58 $ 139.00 $ 219.40 $ 299.72 28 Table of Contents Item 6.[Reserved] 29 Table of Contents Item 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This section generally discusses fiscal 2024 and 2023 items and year-over-year comparisons between 2024 and 2023. Discussions of 2022 items and year-over-year comparisons between 2023 and 2022 are not included herein. Refer to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023 for that discussion. Overview The Company is a global leader in providing Enterprise Asset Intelligence (EAI) offerings in the Automatic Identification and Data Capture (AIDC) industry. The AIDC market consists of mobile computing, data capture, radio frequency identification devices (RFID), barcode printing, and other workflow automation offerings. The Companys operations consist of two reportable segments that provide complementary offerings to our customers: Asset Intelligence & Tracking (AIT) and Enterprise Visibility & Mobility (EVM). Refer to Part I, Item 1 of this document for additional information. The AIT segment is an industry leader in barcode printing and asset tracking technologies. Its major product lines include barcode and card printers, RFID and RTLS offerings, and supplies, including temperature-monitoring labels, and services. The EVM segment is an industry leader in automatic information and data capture offerings. Its major product lines include mobile computing, data capture, fixed industrial scanning and machine vision, services, and workflow optimization solutions. Our workflow optimization solutions include cloud-based software subscriptions, retail solutions, and robotic automation solutions. 2024 Financial Summary and Other Recent Developments Net sales were $4,981 million in the current year compared to $4,584 million in the prior year. Operating income was $742 million in the current year compared to $481 million in the prior year. Net income was $528 million, or $10.18 per diluted share in the current year, compared to Net income of $296 million, or $5.72 per diluted share in the prior year. Net cash provided by operating activities was $1,013 million in the current year compared to net cash used in operating activities of $4 million in the prior year. As we entered 2024, we saw the stabilization of distributor inventory levels in both of our segments and the beginning of a modest recovery in demand trends in certain of our offerings within our EVM segment. The demand trend recovery broadened across offerings within both segments beginning in the second half of the year contributing to improved revenue and profitability. As we look ahead to 2025, we expect increased uncertainty and volatility in global trade policy and foreign currency exchange rates. The Company completed its actions under the 2022 Productivity Plan in the current year. Total charges associated with the 2022 Productivity Plan and the U.S. voluntary retirement plan (VRP), which was completed in 2023, were $127 million, including $17 million recorded in the current year. The costs of these actions are classified within Exit and restructuring on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Together, these programs have impacted over 9% of our global employee base and have generated approximately $120 million of annualized net cost savings, primarily within Operating expenses. In the second quarter, the Company completed a private offering of $500 million senior unsecured notes (the Senior Notes) with a 6.5% fixed interest rate; the proceeds of which, were partially used to repay outstanding debt. Additionally, with the issuance of the fixed rate Senior Notes, the Company terminated its interest rate swap agreements which were intended to result in a fixed interest rate on a portion of our variable rate debt. On December 27, 2024, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Photoneo, a leading developer and manufacturer of 3D machine vision offerings. The purchase price of approximately 60 million is expected to be funded with cash on hand. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions and is expected to close in the first quarter of 2025. The acquired business will become part of the EVM segment. 30 Table of Contents Results of Operations: Year Ended 2024 versus 2023 and Year Ended 2023 versus 2022 Consolidated Results of Operations (amounts in millions, except percentages) Year Ended December 31, Percent Change 2024 vs 2023 Percent Change 2023 vs 2022 2024 2023 2022 Net sales: Tangible products $ 4,016 $ 3,665 $ 4,915 9.6 % (25.4) % Services and software 965 919 866 5.0 % 6.1 % Total Net sales 4,981 4,584 5,781 8.7 % (20.7) % Gross profit 2,413 2,123 2,624 13.7 % (19.1) % Gross margin 48.4 % 46.3 % 45.4 % 210 bps 90 bps Operating expenses 1,671 1,642 2,095 1.8 % (21.6) % Operating income $ 742 $ 481 $ 529 54.3 % (9.1) % Net sales to customers by geographic region were as follows (amounts in millions, except percentages): Year Ended December 31, Percent Change 2024 vs 2023 Percent Change 2023 vs 2022 2024 2023 2022 North America $ 2,547 $ 2,405 $ 2,919 5.9 % (17.6) % EMEA 1,617 1,414 1,920 14.4 % (26.4) % Asia-Pacific 490 481 609 1.9 % (21.0) % Latin America 327 284 333 15.1 % (14.7) % Total Net sales $ 4,981 $ 4,584 $ 5,781 8.7 % (20.7) % Operating expenses are summarized below (amounts in millions, except percentages): Year Ended December 31, As a Percentage of Net sales 2024 2023 2022 2024 2023 2022 Selling and marketing $ 600 $ 581 $ 607 12.0 % 12.7 % 10.5 % Research and development 563 519 570 11.3 % 11.3 % 9.9 % General and administrative 381 334 375 7.6 % 7.3 % 6.5 % Settlement and related costs 372 % % 6.4 % Amortization of intangible assets 104 104 136 NM NM NM Acquisition and integration costs 6 6 21 NM NM NM Exit and restructuring costs 17 98 14 NM NM NM Total Operating expenses $ 1,671 $ 1,642 $ 2,095 33.5 % 35.8 % 36.2 % Consolidated Organic Net sales growth (decline): Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 Reported GAAP Consolidated Net sales growth (decline) 8.7 % (20.7) % Adjustments: Impact of foreign currency translations (1) (0.6) % 1.4 % Impact of acquisitions (2) % (0.5) % Consolidated Organic Net sales growth (decline) (3) 8.1 % (19.8) % (1)Operating results reported in U.S. Dollars are affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Foreign currency translation impact represents the difference in results that are attributable to fluctuations in the currency exchange rates used to convert the results for businesses where the functional currency is not the U.S. Dollar. This impact is calculated by translating the current period results at the currency exchange rates used in the comparable prior year period as well as removing realized cash flow hedge gains and losses from both the current and prior year periods. 31 Table of Contents (2)For purposes of computing Organic Net sales growth (decline), amounts directly attributable to business acquisitions are excluded for twelve months following their respective acquisitions. (3)Consolidated Organic Net sales growth (decline) is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Measures section at the end of this item. 2024 compared to 2023 Total Net sales increased $397 million or 8.7% compared to the prior year reflecting growth in our EVM segment that was partially offset by a slight decline in our AIT segment as the current year recovery in demand trends benefited EVM earlier in the year than AIT. Excluding the effects of foreign currency changes and acquisitions, Consolidated Organic Net sales increased by 8.1%. Gross margin increased to 48.4% for the current year compared to 46.3% in the prior year. The increase was primarily due to volume leverage, higher service and software margins, lower freight rates, and lower inventory-related charges. Gross margin was higher in both segments, particularly EVM. Operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 were $1,671 million and $1,642 million, or 33.5% and 35.8% of Net sales, respectively. Current year Operating expenses were higher than the prior year primarily due to higher incentive compensation, partially offset by lower Exit and restructuring costs and incremental savings largely attributed to our Exit and restructuring actions. Operating income was $742 million for the current year compared to $481 million for the prior year. The increase was due to higher Gross profit partially offset by higher Operating expenses. Net income increased 78.4% compared to the prior year primarily due to higher Operating income, as described above, as well as lower Interest (expense) income, net which included higher interest rate swap gains and interest income in the current year. The Companys effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023 were 16.9% and 11.4%, respectively. The increase in the effective tax rate compared to the prior year was primarily due to lower rate benefits from tax credits and discrete items as well as higher state income taxes. Diluted earnings per share increased to $10.18 as compared to $5.72 in the prior year primarily due to higher Net income. Results of Operations by Segment The following commentary should be read in conjunction with the financial results of each reportable business segment as detailed in Note 20, Segment Information & Geographic Data in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. To the extent applicable, segment operating income excludes Amortization of intangible assets, Acquisition and integration costs, Exit and restructuring costs, as well as certain other non-recurring costs (such as the Settlement costs in 2022, impairment of goodwill and other intangibles, and business acquisition purchase accounting adjustments). Asset Intelligence & Tracking Segment (AIT) (amounts in millions, except percentages) Year Ended December 31, Percent Change 2024 vs 2023 Percent Change 2023 vs 2022 2024 2023 2022 Net sales: Tangible products $ 1,532 $ 1,537 $ 1,728 (0.3) % (11.1) % Services and software 115 114 109 0.9 % 4.6 Total Net sales 1,647 1,651 1,837 (0.2) % (10.1) % Gross profit 793 787 795 0.8 % (1.0) % Gross margin 48.1 % 47.7 % 43.3 % 40 bps 440 bps Operating expenses 458 441 434 3.9 % 1.6 % Operating income $ 335 $ 346 $ 361 (3.2) % (4.2) % 32 Table of Contents AIT Organic Net sales (decline): Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 AIT Reported GAAP Net sales (decline) (0.2) % (10.1) % Adjustments: Impact of foreign currency translations (1) (0.7) % 1.3 % AIT Organic Net sales (decline) (2) (0.9) % (8.8) % (1)Operating results reported in U.S. Dollars are affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Foreign currency translation impact represents the difference in results that are attributable to fluctuations in the currency exchange rates used to convert the results for businesses where the functional currency is not the U.S. Dollar. This impact is calculated by translating the current period results at the currency exchange rates used in the comparable prior year period as well as removing realized cash flow hedge gains and losses from both the current and prior year periods. (2) AIT Organic Net sales (decline) is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Measures section at the end of this item. 2024 compared to 2023 Total Net sales for AIT decreased $4 million or 0.2% compared to the prior year primarily due to lower sales of printing products and supplies, partially offset by favorable foreign currency changes and higher sales of RFID products. Excluding the impact of foreign currency changes, AIT Organic Net sales decreased by 0.9%. Gross margin increased to 48.1% in the current year compared to 47.7% for the prior year primarily due to favorable foreign currency changes, partially offset by higher inventory-related charges. Operating income decreased 3.2% in the current year compared to the prior year due to higher Operating expenses partially offset by higher Gross profit. Enterprise Visibility & Mobility Segment (EVM) (amounts in millions, except percentages) Year Ended December 31, Percent Change 2024 vs 2023 Percent Change 2023 vs 2022 2024 2023 2022 Net sales: Tangible products $ 2,484 $ 2,128 $ 3,187 16.7 % (33.2) % Services and software 850 805 757 5.6 % 6.3 % Total Net sales 3,334 2,933 3,944 13.7 % (25.6) % Gross profit 1,620 1,336 1,829 21.3 % (27.0) % Gross margin 48.6 % 45.6 % 46.4 % 300 bps (80) bps Operating expenses 1,086 993 1,118 9.4 % (11.2) % Operating income $ 534 $ 343 $ 711 55.7 % (51.8) % EVM Organic Net sales growth (decline): Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 EVM Reported GAAP Net sales growth (decline) 13.7 % (25.6) % Adjustments: Impact of foreign currency translations (1) (0.5) % 1.5 % Impact of acquisitions (2) % (0.8) % EVM Organic Net sales growth (decline) (3) 13.2 % (24.9) % (1)Operating results reported in U.S. Dollars are affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Foreign currency translation impact represents the difference in results that are attributable to fluctuations in the currency exchange rates used to convert the results for businesses where the functional currency is not the U.S. Dollar. This impact is calculated by 33 Table of Contents translating the current period results at the currency exchange rates used in the comparable prior year period as well as removing realized cash flow hedge gains and losses from both the current and prior year periods. (2)For purposes of computing EVM Organic Net sales growth (decline), amounts directly attributable to business acquisitions are excluded for twelve months following their respective acquisitions. (3)EVM Organic Net sales growth (decline) is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Measures section at the end of this item. 2024 compared to 2023 Total Net sales for EVM increased $401 million or 13.7% compared to the prior year primarily due to higher sales of mobile computing products, and services and software, partially offset by lower sales of data capture products. Excluding the impacts of foreign currency changes and acquisitions, EVM Organic Net sales increased by 13.2%. Gross margin increased to 48.6% in the current year compared to 45.6% for the prior year primarily due to volume leverage, favorable business mix, higher service and software margins, lower inventory-related charges, and lower freight rates. Operating income for the current year increased 55.7% compared to the prior year due to higher Gross profit partially offset by higher Operating expenses. Liquidity and Capital Resources The primary factors that influence our liquidity include the amount and timing of cash collections from our customers, cash payments to our suppliers, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and share repurchases. Management believes that our existing capital resources, inclusive of available borrowing capacity on debt and other financing facilities and funds generated from operations, are sufficient to meet anticipated capital requirements and service our indebtedness. The following table summarizes our cash flow activities for the years indicated (in millions): Year Ended December 31, $ Change 2024 vs 2023 $ Change 2023 vs 2022 2024 2023 2022 Cash flow provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 1,013 $ (4) $ 488 $ 1,017 $ (492) Investing activities (57) (92) (968) 35 876 Financing activities (190) 117 253 (307) (136) Effect of exchange rates on cash balances (3) (3) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents, including restricted cash $ 763 $ 21 $ (227) $ 742 $ 248 2024 vs. 2023 The change in our cash and cash equivalents balance during the current year is reflective of the following: $1,017 million change in operating activities primarily due to the timing of cash payments and the reduction of overall inventory levels, lower legal settlement, income tax, and employee incentive compensation payments, higher cash receipts on interest rate swaps attributed to the termination of those agreements, as well as overall improved operating profits. $307 million change in financing activities primarily due to current year net debt repayments as a portion of the recently issued Senior Notes was utilized to reduce total debt, compared to net borrowings in the prior year. 34 Table of Contents Company Debt The following table shows the carrying value of the Companys debt (in millions): December 31, 2024 2023 Term Loan A $ 1,575 $ 1,684 Senior Notes 500 Revolving Credit Facility 413 Receivables Financing Facilities 108 129 Total debt $ 2,183 $ 2,226 Less: Debt issuance costs (9) (2) Less: Unamortized discounts (3) (4) Less: Current portion of debt (79) (173) Total long-term debt $ 2,092 $ 2,047 Term Loan A The principal on Term Loan A is due in quarterly installments, with the next quarterly installment due in the second quarter of 2026 and the majority due upon maturity in 2027. The Company has and may make prepayments in whole or in part, without premium or penalty; and would be required to prepay certain outstanding amounts in the event of certain circumstances or transactions. As of December 31, 2024, the Term Loan A interest rate was 5.71%. Interest payments are made monthly and are subject to variable rates plus an applicable margin. Senior Notes In the second quarter of 2024, the Company completed a private offering of $500 million senior unsecured notes (the Senior Notes) with a 6.5% fixed interest rate. The net proceeds of the issuance, after deducting debt issuance costs which were deferred, were approximately $492 million. The Senior Notes mature on June 1, 2032, and interest is payable semi-annually in arrears in June and December of each year, commencing on December 1, 2024. The Company may make prepayments in whole or in part, without premium or penalty, and would be required to prepay certain outstanding amounts in the event of certain circumstances or transactions. The Senior Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by certain of Zebras existing and future subsidiaries. The Senior Notes contain covenants that, among other things, limit the ability of Zebra to: (i) grant or incur liens; (ii) have its subsidiaries guarantee debt without becoming guarantors; and (iii) merge or consolidate with another company or sell all or substantially all of its assets. Revolving Credit Facility The Company has a Revolving Credit Facility that is available for working capital and other general business purposes, including letters of credit. As of December 31, 2024, the Company had letters of credit totaling $10 million, which reduced funds available for borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility from $1,500 million to $1,490 million. As of December 31, 2024, the Revolving Credit Facility had an average interest rate of 5.68%. Upon borrowing, interest payments are made monthly and are subject to variable rates plus an applicable margin. The Revolving Credit Facility matures on May 25, 2027. Receivables Financing Facility As of December 31, 2024, the Company has a Receivables Financing Facility with a borrowing limit of up to $180 million. As collateral, the Company pledges perfected first-priority security interests in its U.S. domestically originated accounts receivable. The Company has accounted for transactions under this facility as secured borrowings. During the first quarter of 2024, the Company amended this facility to extend the maturity to March 19, 2027 but otherwise did not substantially change the terms of the facility. As of December 31, 2024, the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets included $638 million of gross receivables that were pledged under the facility. As of December 31, 2024, $108 million had been borrowed, of which $79 million was classified as current. Borrowings under the facility bear interest at a variable rate plus an applicable margin. As of December 31, 2024, the facility had an average interest rate of 5.38%. Interest is paid monthly on these borrowings. See Note 12, Long-Term Debt in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to the Companys debt instruments. 35 Table of Contents Receivables Factoring The Company has a Receivables Factoring arrangement, pursuant to which certain receivables originated from the EMEA and Asia-Pacific regions up to a maximum of 75 million, as amended, are sold to a bank without recourse in exchange for cash. Transactions under the Receivables Factoring arrangement are accounted for as sales and the related receivables are removed from the Companys balance sheet. The Company does not maintain any beneficial interest in the receivables sold. The banks purchase of eligible receivables is subject to a maximum amount of uncollected receivables. The Company services the receivables on behalf of the bank, but otherwise maintains no significant continuing involvement with respect to the receivables. Sale proceeds that are representative of the fair value of factored receivables, less a factoring fee, are reflected in Cash flows from operating activities on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, while sale proceeds in excess of the fair value of factored receivables are reflected in Cash flows from financing activities on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. As of December 31, 2024 and 2023, there were a total of $28 million and $56 million, respectively, of uncollected receivables that had been sold and removed from the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets. As servicer of sold receivables, the Company had $51 million and $112 million of obligations that were not yet remitted to the bank as of December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. These obligations are included within Accrued liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, with changes in such obligations reflected within Cash flows from financing activities on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. See Note 19, Accounts Receivable Factoring in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. Share Repurchases On May 17, 2022, the Company announced that its Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program for up to $1 billion of its outstanding shares of common stock. The authorized share repurchase program does not have a stated expiration date. The level of the Companys repurchases depends on a number of factors, including its financial condition, capital requirements, cash flows, results of operations, future business prospects and other factors its management may deem relevant. The timing, volume, and nature of repurchases are subject to market conditions, applicable securities laws and other factors and may be amended, suspended or discontinued at any time. Repurchases may be affected from time to time through open market purchases, including pursuant to a pre-set trading plan meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5-1(c) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. During the year ended December 31, 2024, the Company repurchased 130,560 shares of common stock for approximately $47 million. As of December 31, 2024, the Company has cumulatively repurchased 539,574 shares of common stock for approximately $154 million, resulting in a remaining amount of share repurchases authorized under the plans of $846 million. Subsequent to the year ended December 31, 2024, the Company has repurchased 128,466 shares of common stock for approximately $50 million through February 6, 2025. Future Cash Requirements We believe that our Cash and cash equivalents, which totaled $901 million as of December 31, 2024, along with anticipated cash generation from operations and available borrowing capacity on debt and other financing facilities, will be sufficient to fund the Companys cash requirements during the next 12 months and thereafter based on our current business plans. Included in the Companys Cash and cash equivalents are amounts held by foreign subsidiaries, which was $52 million and $33 million as of December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. We do not expect that Cash and cash equivalents held by foreign subsidiaries will need to be repatriated to fund the Companys U.S. operations based on current cash requirements. Our cash requirements during the next 12 months and thereafter include payments to satisfy the following obligations: Purchase obligations The Company has a limited number of multi-year purchase commitments, primarily related to semiconductors and cloud services, which contain minimum purchase requirements and are non-cancellable. As of December 31, 2024, these multi-year commitments were approximately $138 million. This amount excludes routine purchase orders for goods and services, as well as amounts already reflected within Current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. See Note 14, Accrued Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details. Debt obligations We expect to make total payments of approximately $210 million associated with the Companys debt facilities in 2025. This expected use of cash is based on the Companys current borrowings and applicable interest rates and margins as of December 31, 2024, and includes principal and interest payments. In the ordinary course of business, the Company may decide to borrow additional amounts or repay principal earlier than contractually owed, which would affect future cash payments. See Note 12, Long-Term Debt in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to the Companys debt facilities. 36 Table of Contents Leases obligations We lease various manufacturing and repair facilities, distribution centers, research facilities, sales and administrative offices, equipment, and vehicles. As of December 31, 2024, the Companys fixed lease commitments totaled $233 million, of which $46 million is payable in 2025. See Note 13, Leases in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to the Companys lease arrangements. In addition to the expected cash requirements described above, the Company may use cash to fund strategic acquisitions, investments, or repurchase common stock under its share repurchase program. We also expect to spend approximately $60 million to $70 million on capital expenditures in 2025. Critical Accounting Estimates Management prepared the consolidated financial statements of the Company under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. The application of these principles requires the use of estimates which affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements. While we believe that our estimates are reasonable based upon available information, actual results could differ substantially from those estimates. Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements provides additional discussion of these items along with other significant accounting policies of the Company. The accounting estimates described below have been identified by Management as those that are most significant to our financial statements. Income Taxes We estimate a provision or benefit for income taxes and amounts to be settled or recovered in several tax jurisdictions globally. Our estimates are complex and involve significant judgments and interpretations of regulations. Resolution of income tax treatments in individual jurisdictions may not be known for several years after completion of a given year. We are also required to evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets on an ongoing basis, which requires estimation of our ability to generate future taxable income. In particular, our income tax provision or benefit is dependent on our ability to forecast future taxable income in the U.S., U.K., Singapore, and other jurisdictions. Significant judgments included in our forecasts include projecting future sales volumes and pricing, costs to manufacture and procure products and to deliver offerings, among other factors. There were no significant changes in estimates to our income tax provision during the current year. Acquisitions We account for acquired businesses using the acquisition method of accounting. This method requires that the purchase price be allocated to the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their estimated fair values. The excess of the purchase price over the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recorded as goodwill. The estimates used to determine the fair values of long-lived intangible assets can be complex and require judgment. We generally value intangible assets using income-based valuation methodologies, such as the excess earnings method, which require critical estimates that include, but are not limited to, future expected cash flows from revenues and the determination of discount rates. Goodwill Impairment Our goodwill impairment testing includes a comparison of the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units to its carrying value. Fair value determinations require judgment and can be sensitive to changes in underlying assumptions, estimates, as well as market factors. We estimate the fair value of reporting units using both income and market-based valuation approaches. Estimating the fair value of reporting units requires that we make assumptions and estimates including projections of revenue and income growth rates as well as cash flows; capital investments; competitive and customer trends; appropriate peer group selection; market-based discount rates and other market factors. Our annual impairment testing, most recently completed in the fourth quarter of 2024, continues to indicate that the fair values of each of our reporting units significantly exceed their respective carrying values. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenues when we transfer control of promised offerings to our customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive. The consideration that we expect to receive is estimated by reflecting reductions to our transaction price for product returns, rebates, and other incentives. These estimates are developed using the expected value that the Company anticipates receiving and are based on recent trends observed in similar transactions. Additionally, some of our contracts with customers contain multiple performance obligations, including various hardware, software, and/or services. For such contracts that contain multiple performance obligations, we allocate the estimated total transaction price to each performance obligation based on relative standalone selling prices (SSP). The determination of SSP is established at a regional level. SSP is based on observable prices in recent standalone transactions for the same or similar offerings, to the extent available, which is often applicable to tangible products and software licenses. Alternatively, in the absence of recent observable prices, the Company generally applies the expected cost-plus margin approach to professional services, repair and maintenance services, and solution offerings. There were no changes to our estimation processes for consideration received or SSP that materially affected revenues during the year. 37 Table of Contents New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements regarding recent accounting pronouncements. Non-GAAP Measures The Company has provided reconciliations of the supplemental non-GAAP financial measures, as defined under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, presented herein to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. These supplemental non-GAAP financial measures Consolidated Organic Net sales growth (decline), AIT Organic Net sales (decline), and EVM Organic Net sales growth (decline) are presented because our management evaluates our financial results both including and excluding the effects of business acquisitions and foreign currency translation, as applicable. Management believes that the supplemental non-GAAP financial measures presented provide additional perspective and insights when analyzing the core operating performance of our business from period to period and trends in our historical operating results. These supplemental non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered superior to, as a substitute for, or as an alternative to, and should be considered in conjunction with the GAAP financial measures presented. 38 Table of Contents