Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, because they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and growth prospects. These risks are not the only risks we face. Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial. No priority or significance is intended by, nor should be attached to, the order in which the risk factors appear. General Business and Industry Risks The Company is vulnerable to the potential difficulties associated with the increase in the complexity of our business . We have grown rapidly over the last several years through acquisition and worldwide growth. This growth has caused increased complexities in the business. We believe our future success depends in part on our ability to manage our growth and increased complexities of our business. The following factors could present difficulties to us: Managing our distribution channel partners; Managing our contract manufacturing and supply chain; Manufacturing an increased number of products; Managing parties to whom we have outsourced portions of our business operations; Managing administrative and operational burdens; Managing stakeholder interests including customer, investor and employee social responsibility matters; Maintaining and improving information technology infrastructure to support growth; Managing the integration of acquisitions; Managing logistical problems common to complex, expansive operations; Managing our international operations; and Attracting, developing and retaining individuals with the requisite technical expertise to develop new technologies and introduce new products and solutions. Inability to consummate future acquisitions at appropriate prices could negatively impact our growth rate and stock price. Our ability to expand revenues, earnings, and cash flow depends in part upon our ability to identify and successfully acquire and integrate businesses at appropriate prices and to realize anticipated synergies. Acquisitions can be difficult to identify and consummate due to competition among prospective buyers and the need to satisfy applicable closing conditions and obtain antitrust and other regulatory approval on acceptable terms. The Company could encounter difficulties in any acquisition it undertakes, including unanticipated integration problems and business disruption. Acquisitions could also dilute stockholder value and adversely affect operating results. We may acquire or make investments in other businesses, technologies, services, or products. An acquisition may present business issues which are new to us. The process of integrating any acquired business, technology, service, or product into our operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Integration of an acquired company also may consume considerable management time and attention, which could otherwise be available for ongoing operations and the further development of our existing business. These and other factors may result in benefits of an acquisition not being fully realized. Acquisitions also may involve a number of risks, including: Difficulties and uncertainties in retaining the customers or other business relationships from the acquired entities; The loss of key employees of acquired entities; The ability of acquired entities to fulfill their customers obligations; The inheritance of known, and the discovery of unknown, issues or liabilities; Pre-closing and post-closing acquisition-related earnings charges could adversely impact operating results and cash flows in any given period, and the impact may be substantially different from period to period; The failure of acquired entities to meet or exceed expected operating results or cash flows could result in impairment of goodwill or intangible assets acquired; The ability to implement internal controls and accounting systems necessary to be compliant with requirements applicable to public companies subject to SEC reporting, which could result in misstated financial reports; and Future acquisitions could result in changes such as potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, and goodwill impairment charges. 12 Table of Contents The Company may not be able to continue to develop products or solutions to address user needs effectively in an industry characterized by ongoing change. To be successful, we must adapt to rapidly changing technological and application needs by continually improving our products, as well as introducing new products and services, to address user demands. The Companys industry is characterized by: Evolving industry standards; Frequent new product and service introductions; Evolving distribution channels; Increasing demand for customized product and software solutions; Changing customer demands; and Changing security protocols. Future success will depend on our ability to effectively and economically adapt in this evolving environment. We could incur substantial costs if we must modify our business to adapt to these changes, and may even be unable to adapt to these changes. The Company participates in a competitive industry, which may become more competitive. Competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technology and changes in customer requirements. We face significant competition in developing and selling our products and solutions. To remain competitive, we believe we must continue to effectively and economically provide: Technologically advanced systems that satisfy user demands; Superior customer service; High levels of quality and reliability; and Dependable and efficient distribution networks. We cannot assure we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or technologies. Increased competition in mobile computing products, data capture products, radio frequency identification devices (RFID), printers, or supplies may result in price reductions, lower gross profit margins, and loss of market share, and could require increased spending on research and development, sales and marketing, and customer support. Some competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships with suppliers or companies that produce complementary products, which may create additional pressures on our competitive position in the marketplace. Operational Risks The Company has substantial operations and sells a significant portion of our products outside of the U.S. and purchases important components, including final products, from suppliers located outside the U.S. Shipments to non-U.S. customers are expected to continue to account for a material portion of Net sales. We also expect to continue the use of third-party contract manufacturing services with non-U.S. production and assembly operations for our products. Risks associated with operations, sales, and purchases outside the United States include: Fluctuating foreign currency rates could restrict sales, increase costs of purchasing, and affect collection of receivables outside of the U.S.; Volatility in foreign credit markets may affect the financial well-being of our customers and suppliers; Violations of anti-corruption laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, could result in large fines and penalties; Adverse changes in, or uncertainty of, local business laws or practices, including the following: Imposition of burdensome tariffs, quotas, taxes, trade barriers, or capital flow restrictions; Restrictions on the export or import of technology may reduce or eliminate the ability to sell in, or purchase from, certain markets; Political and economic instability may reduce demand for our products or put our non-U.S. assets at risk; Limited intellectual property protection in certain countries may limit recourse against infringement on our products or may cause us to refrain from selling in certain geographic territories; Staffing may be difficult including higher than anticipated turnover; A government-controlled exchange rate and limitations on the convertibility of currencies, including the Chinese Yuan; Transportation delays and customs related delays may affect production and distribution of our products; Geopolitical uncertainty or turmoil could negatively affect our operations or those of our customers or suppliers; Effectively managing and overseeing operations that are distant and remote from corporate headquarters; and 13 Table of Contents Integration and enforcement of laws varies significantly among jurisdictions and may change over time. Infringement by the Company or our suppliers on the proprietary rights of others could put us at a competitive disadvantage, and any related litigation could be time consuming and costly. Third parties may claim that we or our suppliers violated their intellectual property rights. To the extent of a violation of a third-partys patent or other intellectual property right, we may be prevented from operating our business as planned, and may be required to pay damages, to obtain a license, if available, or to use a non-infringing method, if possible, to accomplish our objectives. Any of these claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and divert the attention of key personnel. If such claims are successful, they could result in costly judgments or settlements. Also, as new technologies emerge, the intellectual property rights of parties in such technologies can be uncertain. As a result, our products involving such technologies may have higher risk of claims of infringement of the intellectual proprietary rights of third parties. The inability to protect intellectual property could harm our reputation, and our competitive position may be materially damaged. Our intellectual property is valuable and provides us with certain competitive advantages. We use copyrights, patents, trademarks, trade secrets, and contracts to protect these proprietary rights. Despite these precautions, third parties may be able to copy or reproduce aspects of our intellectual property and our products or, without authorization, to misappropriate and use information we regard as trade secrets. Additionally, the intellectual property rights we obtain may not be sufficient to provide us with a competitive advantage and may be successfully challenged, invalidated, circumvented, or infringed. In any infringement litigation that the Company may undertake to protect our intellectual property, any award of monetary damages may be unlikely or very difficult to obtain, and any such award we may receive may not be commercially valuable. Furthermore, efforts to enforce or protect our proprietary rights may be ineffective and could result in the invalidation or narrowing of the scope of our intellectual property and may cause us to incur substantial litigation costs. Because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of the Companys confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. Some aspects of our business and services also rely on technologies, software, and content developed by or licensed from third parties, and we may not be able to maintain our relationships with such third parties or enter into similar relationships in the future on reasonable terms or at all. We currently use third-party and/or open source operating systems and associated application ecosystems in certain of our products. Such parties ceasing continued development of the operating systems or restricting our access to such operating systems could adversely impact our business and financial results. We are dependent on third-parties continued development of operating systems, software application ecosystem infrastructures, and such third-parties approval of our implementations of their operating systems and associated applications. If such parties cease to continue development or support of such operating systems or restrict our access to such operating systems, we would be required to change our strategy for such devices. Our financial results could be negatively impacted by a resulting shift away from the operating systems we currently use and the associated applications ecosystem could be costly and difficult. A strategy shift could increase the burden of development on the Company and potentially create a gap in our portfolio for a period of time, which could competitively disadvantage us. Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt business operations. We rely on information technology systems throughout the Company to keep financial records, process orders, manage inventory, coordinate shipments to distributors and customers, maintain confidential and proprietary information, and other technical activities, and operate other critical functions such as internet connectivity, network communications, and email. Like many companies, we continually strive to meet industry information security standards relevant to our business. We periodically perform vulnerability assessments, remediate vulnerabilities, review log/access, perform system maintenance, manage network perimeter protection, implement and manage disaster recovery testing, and provide periodic educational sessions to our employees to foster awareness of schemes to access sensitive information. Despite our implementation of a variety of security measures, there is no assurance that such actions will be sufficient to prevent a cybersecurity incident. A cybersecurity incident could include an attempt to gain unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or causing operational disruption. Phishing and other types of attempts to obtain unauthorized information or access are often sophisticated and difficult to detect or defeat. A cybersecurity incident, including deliberate attacks and unintentional events, may lead to a material disruption of our core business systems, the loss or corruption of confidential business information, and/or the disclosure of personal data that in each case could result in an adverse business impact as well as possible damage to our brand. This could also lead to a public disclosure or theft of private intellectual property and a possible loss of customer confidence. While we have experienced and expect to continue to experience these types of threats and incidents, there have been no material incidents incurred to-date at the Company. If our core business operations, or that of one of our third-party service providers, were to be breached, this could affect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of our systems and data. Any failure on the part of us or our third-party service providers to maintain the security of data we are required to protect, including 14 Table of Contents via the penetration of our network security and the misappropriation of confidential and proprietary information, could result in business disruption, damage to our reputation, financial obligations to third parties, fines, penalties, regulatory proceedings, and private litigation with potentially large costs, and also result in deterioration in our suppliers, distributors, and customers confidence in us and other competitive disadvantages, and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. While we continue to perform security due diligence, there is always the possibility of a significant breach. Our products that are deployed in customer environments also have the possibility of being breached, which could result in damage to a customers confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the customers data and systems. It is possible that such a breach could result in delays in, or loss of market acceptance of, our products and services; diversion of our resources; injury to our reputation; increased service and warranty expenses; and payment of damages. To date, we have had no material incidents related to the security on our products. Although we maintain insurance related to cybersecurity risks, there can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will cover the particular cyber incident at issue or that such coverage will be sufficient. We may incur liabilities as a result of product failures due to actual or apparent design or manufacturing defects. We may be subject to product liability claims, which could include claims for property or economic damages or personal injury, in the event damages arise from our products as a result of actual or apparent design or manufacturing defects. Such design or manufacturing defects may occur not only in our own designed products, but also in components provided by third-party suppliers. We generally have insurance protection against property damage and personal injury liabilities and seek to limit such risk through product design, manufacturing quality control processes, product testing and contractual indemnification from suppliers. However, due to the growing size of the Companys installed product base and growing number of applications in which our products can be used, an actual or alleged design or manufacturing defect could result in product recalls, customer service costs or legal costs that could have material adverse effects on our financial results. Defects or errors in the Companys software products could harm our reputation, result in significant cost to us, and impair our ability to market such products. Our software may contain undetected errors, defects, or bugs. Although we have not suffered significant harm from any errors, defects, or bugs to date, we may discover significant errors, defects, or bugs in the future that we may not be able to correct or correct in a timely manner. Any future errors, defects, or bugs found in our software products and related services may result in delays in, or loss of market acceptance of, our products and services; diversion of resources; injury to reputation; increased service and warranty expenses; and payment of damages. We depend on the ongoing services of our senior management and the ability to attract and retain key personnel. The future success of the Company is substantially dependent on the continued services and contributions of senior management and other key personnel. The ability to attract, retain, and motivate highly skilled employees is important to our long-term success. Competition for skill sets in certain functions within our industry is intense and we may be unable to retain key employees or attract, assimilate, or retain other highly qualified employees in the future. Any disruption in the services of senior management or our ability to attract and retain key personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. A natural disaster, widespread public health issue or man-made disaster may cause supply disruptions that could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Natural disasters or widespread public health issues may occur in the future and the Company is not able to predict to what extent or duration any such disruptions will have on our ability to maintain ordinary business operations. The Companys operations and facilities are subject to catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, terrorism, or other natural or man-made disasters. If any of our facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue, and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. Following an interruption to our business, the Company could require substantial recovery time, experience significant expenditures to resume operations, and lose significant sales. If such a disruption were to occur, we could breach agreements, our reputation could be harmed, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. The consequences of a natural disaster may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Zebra could be adversely impacted by the United Kingdoms withdrawal from the European Union. Zebra maintains its European regional headquarters and a label converting facility in the U.K. and has significant operations and sales throughout Europe. On January 31, 2020, the U.K. formally withdrew from the E.U. After withdrawal, the U.K. and E.U. entered into a transition period that is due to end on December 31, 2020. During this transition period, the U.K. will negotiate the terms of its future relationship with the E.U. Since the U.K.s referendum in June 2016 to withdraw from the E.U., markets have been more volatile, including fluctuations in the British pound, that could adversely impact Zebras operating costs in the U.K. Such market volatility could also cause customers to alter or delay buying decisions that would adversely impact Zebras sales in the U.K. and throughout Europe. Our European business involves cross border transactions between the U.K. and the E.U. The future trade relationship between the U.K. and the E.U. could adversely impact Zebras operations in the region by increasing importation requirements or disrupting shipments between the E.U. to the U.K. or vice versa. The terms of the U.K.s 15 Table of Contents withdrawal from the E.U. and resulting impacts to Zebras operations are currently uncertain and could adversely affect the Companys financial performance. We are exposed to risks under large, multi-year system and solutions and services contracts that may negatively impact our business. We enter into large, multi-year system and solutions and services contracts with our customers that expose us to risks, including among others: (i) technological risks, especially when contracts involve new technology; (ii) financial risks, including the accuracy of estimates inherent in projecting costs associated with large, long-term contracts and the related impact on operating results; and (iii) cybersecurity risks, especially in managed services contracts with customers that process personal data. Recovery of front-loaded costs incurred on long-term managed services contracts with customers is dependent on the continued viability of such customers. The insolvency of customers could result in a loss of anticipated future revenue attributable to that program or product, which could have an adverse impact on our profitability. We enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event we fail to properly estimate our costs. If our initial cost estimates are incorrect, we can lose money on these contracts. Because many of these contracts involve new technologies and applications and require the Company to engage subcontractors and can last multiple years, unforeseen events, such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in the price of raw materials, problems with our subcontractors or suppliers, and other cost overruns, can result in the contract pricing becoming less favorable or even unprofitable to us and have an adverse impact on our financial results. In addition, a significant increase in inflation rates could have an adverse impact on the profitability of longer-term contracts. We utilize the services of subcontractors to perform under many of our contracts, and the inability of our subcontractors to perform in a timely and compliant manner could negatively impact our performance obligations as the prime contractor. We engage subcontractors on many of our contracts and our use of subcontractors has and may continue to increase as we expand our global solutions and services business. Our subcontractors may further subcontract performance and may supply third-party products and software. We may have disputes with our subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by a subcontractor and the functionality, warranty and indemnities of products, software, and services supplied by a subcontractor. We are not always successful in passing along customer requirements to our subcontractors, and thus in some cases may be required to absorb contractual risks from our customers without corresponding back-to-back coverage from our subcontractors. Our subcontractors may not be able to acquire or maintain the quality of the materials, components, subsystems, and services they supply, or secure preferred warranty and indemnity coverage from their suppliers, which might result in greater product returns, service problems, warranty claims and costs, and regulatory compliance issues and could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have outsourced portions of certain business operations such as repair, distribution, engineering services, and information technology services and may outsource additional business operations, which limits our control over these business operations and exposes us to additional risk as a result of the actions of our outsource partners. We are not able to directly control certain business operations that we outsource. Our outsource partners may not prioritize our business over that of their other customers and they may not meet our desired level of service, cost reductions, or other metrics. In some cases, our outsource partners actions may result in our being found to be in violation of laws or regulations, such as import or export regulations. As many of our outsource partners operate outside of the U.S., our outsourcing activity exposes us to information security vulnerabilities and increases our global risks. In addition, we are exposed to the financial viability of our outsource partners. Once a business activity is outsourced, we may be contractually prohibited from, or may not practically be able to, bring such activity back within the Company or move it to another outsource partner. The actions of our outsource partners could result in reputational damage to us and could negatively impact our financial results. Additionally, transitioning activities between new or existing outsource partners or across different geographies as well as insourcing activities could result in additional cost, time and management attention in order to effectively manage the transition, which could negatively impact our financial results. Failure of our suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers, and representatives to use acceptable legal or ethical business practices could negatively impact our business. It is our policy to require suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers, and third-party sales representatives (TPSRs) to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules, and regulations, including those regarding working conditions, employment practices, environmental compliance, anti-corruption, and trademark and copyright licensing. However, we do not control their labor and other business practices. If one of our suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers, or TPSRs violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are regarded as unethical, the shipment of finished products to us could be interrupted, orders could be canceled, relationships could be terminated, and our reputation could be damaged. If one of our suppliers or subcontractors fails to procure necessary license rights to trademarks, copyrights, or patents, legal action could be taken against us that could impact the salability of the Companys products and expose us to financial obligations to a third-party. Any of these events could have a negative impact on our sales and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents We rely on third-party dealers, distributors, and resellers to sell many of our products, and their failure to effectively bring our products to market may negatively affect our results of operation and financial results. In addition to our own sales force, we offer our products through a variety of third-party dealers, distributors, and resellers who may also market other products that compete with our products. Failure of one or more of our third-party dealers, distributors, or resellers to effectively promote our products could affect our ability to bring products to market and have a negative impact on our results of operations. Any changes to our channel program may cause some of our third-party dealers, distributors, or resellers to exit the program due to modifications to the program structure, which may reduce our ability to bring products to market and could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Some of these third-parties are smaller and more likely to be impacted by a significant decrease in available credit that could result from a weakness in the financial markets. If credit pressures or other financial difficulties result in insolvency for third-party dealers, distributors, or resellers and we are unable to successfully transition end-customers to purchase our products from other third-parties or from us directly, it may cause, and in some cases, has caused, a negative impact on our financial results. Final assembly of certain of our products is performed by third-party electronics manufacturers. We may be dependent on these third-party electronics manufacturers as a sole-source of supply for the manufacture of such products. A failure by such manufacturers to provide manufacturing services to us as we require, or any disruption in such manufacturing services up to and including a catastrophic shut-down, may adversely affect our business results. Because we rely on these third-party electronics manufacturers to manufacture our products, we may incur increased business continuity risks. We are not able to exercise direct control over the assembly or related operations of certain of our products. If these third-party manufacturers experience business difficulties or fail to meet our manufacturing needs, then we may be unable to satisfy customer product demands, lose sales, and be unable to maintain customer relationships. Longer production lead times may result in shortages of certain products and inadequate inventories during periods of unanticipated higher demand. Without such third parties continuing to manufacture our products, we may have no other means of final assembly of certain of our products until we are able to secure the manufacturing capability at another facility or develop an alternative manufacturing facility. This transition could be costly and time consuming. From time to time we may diversify our product sourcing footprint, similar to the actions we are currently taking with our efforts to reduce our reliance on Chinese-based manufacturing, which may result in additional costs. Our future operating results depend on our ability to purchase a sufficient amount of materials, parts, and components, as well as services and software to meet the demands of customers. We source some of our components from sole source suppliers. Any disruption to our suppliers or significant increase in the price of supplies could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Our ability to meet customers demands depends, in part, on our ability to obtain in a timely manner an adequate delivery of quality materials, parts, and components, as well as services and software from our suppliers. In addition, certain supplies are available only from a single source or limited sources and we may not be able to diversify sources in a timely manner. If demand for our products or services increases from our current expectations or if suppliers are unable or unwilling to meet our demand for other reasons, including as a result of natural disasters, public health issues, severe weather conditions, or financial issues, we could experience an interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies that could have a negative impact on our business. We have experienced shortages in the past that have negatively impacted our results of operations and may experience such shortages in the future. Credit constraints at our suppliers could cause us to accelerate payment of accounts payable by us, impacting our cash flow. In addition, our current contracts with certain suppliers may be canceled or not extended by such suppliers and, therefore, not afford us with sufficient protection against a reduction or interruption in supplies. Moreover, in the event any of these suppliers breach their contracts with us, our legal remedies associated with such a breach may be insufficient to compensate us for any damages it may suffer. Financial and Market Risks The impact of changes in customs duties and trade policies in the United States and corresponding actions by other countries in which the Company does business could adversely affect our financial performance. The U.S. government has imposed customs duties on various imports from China that are intended to address trade imbalances. These actions will result in increased customs duties and will likely result in the renegotiation of some U.S. trade agreements. In response to such actions, China has instituted customs duties on certain U.S. goods. Other governments could also institute customs duties on U.S. goods similar to Chinas actions in response to the U.S. governments customs duties. The Company currently imports a significant percentage of our products into the U.S. and China, and an increase in customs duties with respect to these imports could negatively impact the Companys financial performance. The Company commenced efforts to diversify its product sourcing footprint in order to reduce its reliance on Chinese-based manufacturing and mitigate the impacts of related customs duties. Failure to effectively manage transition activities associated with product sourcing diversification may negatively impact our results of operations and financial performance. Such customs duties also may cause the U.S. trading partners, other than 17 Table of Contents China, to take actions with respect to U.S. imports or U.S. investment activities in their respective countries. Any potential changes in trade policies in the U.S. and the potential corresponding actions by other countries in which the Company does business could adversely affect the Companys financial performance. Taxing authority challenges may lead to tax payments exceeding current reserves. We are subject to, and may become subject to, ongoing tax examinations in various jurisdictions. As a result, we may record incremental tax expense based on expected outcomes of such matters. In addition, we may adjust previously reported tax reserves based on expected results of these examinations. Such adjustments could result in an increase or decrease to the Companys effective tax rate and cash flows. Future changes in tax law in various jurisdictions around the world and income tax holidays could have a material impact on our effective tax rate, foreign rate differential, future income tax expense, and cash flows. Forecasting our estimated annual effective tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty, and there may be material differences between our forecasted and actual tax rates. Forecasts of our income tax position and effective tax rate are complex, subject to uncertainty and periodic updates because our income tax position for each year combines the effects of a mix of profits earned and losses incurred by us in various tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates, as well as changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the impact of various accounting rules and changes to these rules, the results of examinations by various tax authorities, and the impact of any acquisition, business combination, disposition or other reorganization, or financing transaction. As a multinational corporation, we conduct our business in many countries and are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions. The taxation of our business is subject to the application of multiple, and sometimes conflicting, tax laws and regulations, as well as multinational tax conventions. Many countries have recently adopted, or are considering the adoption of, revisions to their respective tax laws based on the on-going reports issued by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD)/G20 Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) Project, which could materially impact our tax liability due to our organizational structure and significant operations outside of the U.S. Our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic distribution of our worldwide earnings or losses resulting from our structure and operating model, the tax regulations and tax holidays in each geographic region, and the availability of tax credits and carry-forwards. The application of tax laws and regulations is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment, and uncertainty. Tax laws themselves are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation, and the evolution of regulations and court rulings. Consequently, taxing authorities may impose tax assessments or judgments against us that could materially impact our tax liability and/or our effective income tax rate. Economic conditions and financial market disruptions may adversely affect our business and results of operations . Adverse economic conditions or reduced information technology spending may negatively impact our business. General disruption of financial markets and a related general economic downturn could adversely affect our business and financial condition through a reduction in demand for our products by our customers. If a slowdown were severe enough, it could require further impairment testing and write-downs of goodwill and other intangible assets. Cost reduction actions may be necessary and might lead to restructuring charges. A tightening of financial credit could adversely affect our customers, suppliers, outsourced manufacturers, and channel partners (e.g., distributors and resellers) from obtaining adequate credit for the financing of significant purchases. An economic downturn could also result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for our products and services; negatively impacting the ability to collect accounts receivable on a timely basis; result in additional reserves for uncollectible accounts receivable; and require additional reserves for inventory obsolescence. Higher volatility and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates for the U.S. Dollar against currencies such as the Euro, the British Pound, the Chinese Yuan, and the Brazilian Real could negatively impact product sales, margins, and cash flows. It is important that we are able to obtain many different types of insurance, and if we are not able to obtain insurance or exhaust our coverage, we may be forced to retain the risk. We have many types of insurance coverage and are also self-insured for some risks and obligations. While the cost and availability of most insurance is stable, there are still certain types and levels of insurance that remain difficult to obtain, such as professional liability insurance, which is expensive to obtain for the amount of coverage often requested by certain customers. As we grow our global solutions and services business, we are being asked to obtain higher amounts of professional liability insurance, which could result in higher costs to do business. Natural disasters and certain risks arising from securities claims, professional liability, and public liability are potential self-insured events that could negatively impact our financial results. In addition, while we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and we may be forced to bear substantial costs from an accident, incident, or claim. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our business. As of December 31, 2019, we had $1.3 billion of outstanding debt, gross of unamortized discounts and debt issuance costs. Our indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: 18 Table of Contents We may experience difficulty in satisfying our obligations with respect to our existing indebtedness or future indebtedness; Our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or general corporate purposes may be impaired; We plan to use a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on our indebtedness, which may reduce the funds available for other purposes, such as acquisitions and capital expenditures; We may be at a competitive disadvantage with reduced flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changing conditions in the industry, including increased competition; and We may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in the business. We expect to fund our expenses and to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness from cash flow from operations. Our ability to meet our expenses and to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness when due depends on our future performance and ability to collect cash from our customers, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions in the markets where we operate and pressure from competitors. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flows from operations or if future borrowings are not available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before the maturity thereof, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, we may not be able to effect any of these actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our ability to restructure or refinance our indebtedness will depend on the condition of the capital and debt markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict business operations. The terms of anticipated or future debt instruments may limit or prevent us from taking any of these actions. In addition, any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and/or principal on outstanding indebtedness would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to access additional capital on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations, or to refinance or restructure our obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would have an adverse effect, which could be material, on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as on our ability to satisfy the obligations in respect of our indebtedness. Our use of derivative financial instruments to reduce interest rate risk may result in added volatility in our operating results . We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. However, we do utilize derivative financial instruments to reduce interest rate risk associated with our indebtedness. To manage variable interest rate risk, we entered into forward interest rate swap agreements, which will effectively convert a portion of our indebtedness into a fixed rate loan. Under generally accepted accounting principles, changes in the fair values of the swap contracts are reflected in our Consolidated Statements of Operations as a component of Other, net if not hedged. The associated impact on our quarterly operating results is directly related to changes in prevailing interest rates. If interest rates increase, we would have a non-cash gain on the swaps, and vice versa in the event of a decrease in interest rates. Consequently, these swaps introduce additional volatility to our operating results. Legal and Regulatory Risks We could be adversely impacted by changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters. Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our businesses, including, but not limited to, revenue recognition, asset impairment, business acquisition purchase price allocations, impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, inventories, tax matters, and litigation and other contingent liabilities are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates, or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition. New accounting guidance may also require systems and other changes that could increase our operating costs and/or change our financial statements. Laws and regulations relating to the handling of personal data may result in increased costs, legal claims, or fines against the Company. As part of our operations, the Company collects, uses, stores, and transfers personal data of third parties and employees in and across various jurisdictions. The governing bodies in such jurisdictions have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations regarding the collection, use, transfer, storage, and disclosure of personal data obtained from third parties and employees; for example, the General Data Protection Regulation effective May 2018. These laws may result in burdensome or inconsistent requirements affecting the collection, use, storage, transfer, and disclosure of our third-party and employee personal data. Compliance may require changes in services, business practices, or internal systems that result in 19 Table of Contents increased costs, lower revenue, reduced efficiency, or greater difficulty in competing with foreign-based firms. Failure to comply with existing or new rules may result in claims against the Company or significant penalties or orders to stop the alleged noncompliant activity. The unfavorable outcome of any pending or future litigation, arbitration, or administrative action could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. From time to time we are a party to litigation, arbitration, or administrative actions. Our financial results and reputation could be negatively impacted by unfavorable outcomes to any pending or future litigation or administrative actions, including those related to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, or other anti-corruption laws. There can be no assurances as to the favorable outcome of any litigation or administrative proceedings. In addition, it can be very costly to defend litigation or administrative proceedings and these costs could negatively impact our financial results. We are subject to a wide range of product regulatory and safety, consumer, worker safety, and environmental laws. Our operations and the products we manufacture and/or sell are subject to a wide range of product regulatory and safety, consumer, worker safety, and environmental laws and regulations. Compliance with such existing or future laws and regulations could subject us to future costs or liabilities, impact our production capabilities, constrict our ability to sell, expand or acquire facilities, restrict what products and services we can offer, and generally impact our financial performance. Some of these laws are environmental and relate to the use, disposal, remediation, emission and discharge of, and exposure to hazardous substances. These laws often impose liability and can require parties to fund remedial studies or actions regardless of fault. We continue to incur disposal costs and have ongoing remediation obligations. Environmental laws have tended to become more stringent over time and any new obligations under these laws could have a negative impact on our operations or financial performance. Laws focused on the energy efficiency of electronic products and accessories; recycling of both electronic products and packaging; reducing or eliminating certain hazardous substances in electronic products; and the transportation of batteries continue to expand significantly. Laws pertaining to accessibility features of electronic products, standardization of connectors and power supplies, the transportation of lithium-ion batteries, and other aspects are also proliferating. There are also demanding and rapidly changing laws around the globe related to issues such as product safety, radio interference, radio frequency radiation exposure, medical related functionality, and consumer and social mandates pertaining to use of wireless or electronic equipment. These laws, and changes to these laws, could have a substantial impact on whether we can offer certain products, solutions, and services, and on what capabilities and characteristics our products or services can or must include. These laws impact our products and negatively affect our ability to manufacture and sell products competitively. We expect these trends to continue. In addition, we anticipate that we will see increased demand to meet voluntary criteria related to reduction or elimination of certain constituents from products, increasing energy efficiency, and providing additional accessibility. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties Our corporate headquarters are located in Lincolnshire, Illinois; a northern suburb of Chicago. We also operate manufacturing, production and warehousing, administrative, research, and sales facilities in other U.S. and international locations. As of December 31, 2019 , the Company owned three laboratory and warehouse facilities located in the U.S., U.K., and Canada. As of December 31, 2019 , the Company had a total of 121 leased facilities with locations spread globally; 35 of which are located in the U.S. and 86 are located in other countries. See Note 13 , Leases in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to the Companys lease arrangements. We generally consider the productive capacity of our facilities to be adequate and sufficient for our requirements. The extent of utilization of each manufacturing facility varies throughout the year. Item 3. Legal Proceedings See Note 14 , Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 20 Table of Contents Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 21 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Stock Information Our Class A Common Stock is traded on the NASDAQ Stock Market, LLC under the symbol ZBRA. As of February 4, 2020 , the last reported price for the Companys Class A Common Stock was $247.87 per share, and there were 112 registered stockholders of record for Zebras Class A Common Stock. Dividend Policy Since our initial public offering in 1991, we have not declared any cash dividends or distributions on our capital stock. We currently do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Treasury Shares The following table sets forth information with respect to repurchases of the Companys common stock for the three months ended December 31, 2019 . Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs (1) Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (in millions) (1) September 29, 2019 - October 26, 2019 136,824 $ 196.15 136,824 $ 953 October 27, 2019 - November 23, 2019 953 November 24, 2019 - December 31, 2019 953 Total 136,824 $ 196.15 136,824 $ 953 (1) On July 30, 2019, the Company announced that its Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program for up to an aggregate amount of $1 billion of its outstanding shares of common stock. The share repurchase program supersedes the Companys prior share repurchase program, which was authorized in November 2011 and under which the Company had not repurchased any shares. Repurchases may be effected from time to time through open market purchases, including pursuant to a pre-set trading plan meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5-1(c) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. As of December 31, 2019 , the remaining amount authorized for repurchases under the program, which does not have a stated expiration date, was approximately $953 million . 22 Table of Contents Stock Performance Graph The following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return, calculated on a dividend-reinvested basis, in Zebra Technologies Corporation Class A Common Stock, the RDG Technology Composite, and the NASDAQ Composite Market Index for the five years ended December 31, 2019. The comparison assumes that $100 was invested in each of the Companys Class A Common Stock, the RDG Technology Composite and the NASDAQ Composite Market Index as of the market close on December 31, 2014. Note that historic stock price performance is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. Value at each year-end of $100 initial investment made on December 31, 2014 12/14 12/15 12/16 12/17 12/18 12/19 Zebra Technologies Corporation $ 100.00 $ 89.98 $ 110.79 $ 134.09 $ 205.70 $ 329.98 RDG Technology Composite $ 100.00 $ 103.42 $ 118.01 $ 161.58 $ 162.31 $ 238.96 NASDAQ Composite $ 100.00 $ 106.96 $ 116.45 $ 150.96 $ 145.67 $ 200.49 23 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data FIVE YEAR SUMMARY OF SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA (In millions, except shares and per share amounts) Year Ended December 31, Consolidated Statements of Operations (1) 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Net sales $ 4,485 $ 4,218 $ 3,722 $ 3,574 $ 3,650 Gross profit 2,100 1,981 1,710 1,642 1,644 Net income (loss) $ 544 $ 421 $ 17 $ (137 ) $ (158 ) Basic earnings (loss) per share $ 10.08 $ 7.86 $ 0.33 $ (2.65 ) $ (3.10 ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share $ 9.97 $ 7.76 $ 0.32 $ (2.65 ) $ (3.10 ) Weighted average shares outstanding: Basic 53,991,249 53,591,655 53,021,761 51,579,112 50,996,297 Diluted 54,594,417 54,299,812 53,688,832 51,579,112 50,996,297 December 31, Consolidated Balance Sheets (1) 2019 (2) 2018 2017 2016 2015 Cash and cash equivalents $ 30 $ 44 $ 62 $ 156 $ 192 Total Assets 4,711 4,339 4,275 4,632 5,040 Long-term liabilities 1,468 1,703 2,441 2,891 3,252 Total Stockholders Equity 1,839 1,335 834 792 893 (1) Includes the Cortexica, Profitect, Temptime, and Xplore businesses, effective upon their respective dates of acquisition during 2019 and 2018. See Note 5 , Business Acquisitions in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to these acquisitions. (2) Reflects the Companys adoption of Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 842, Leases (ASC 842). See Note 2 , Significant Accounting Policies for additional information related to the Companys adoption of ASC 842. 24 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This section generally discusses fiscal 2019 and 2018 items and year-over-year comparisons between 2019 and 2018. Discussions of 2017 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2018 and 2017 are not included herein. Refer to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018 for this discussion. Overview Zebra Technologies Corporation and its subsidiaries (Zebra or the Company) is a global leader respected for innovative Enterprise Asset Intelligence (EAI) solutions in the automatic identification and data capture solutions industry. We design, manufacture, and sell a broad range of products that capture and move data, including: mobile computers; barcode scanners and imagers; radio frequency identification device (RFID) readers; specialty printers for barcode labeling and personal identification; real-time location systems (RTLS); related accessories and supplies, such as self-adhesive labels and other consumables; and software utilities and applications. We also provide a full range of services, including maintenance, technical support, and repair, managed and professional services, including cloud-based subscriptions. End-users of our products and services include those in the retail and e-commerce, transportation and logistics, manufacturing, healthcare, hospitality, warehouse and distribution, energy and utilities, government and education enterprises around the world. We provide products and services in approximately 180 countries, with 124 facilities and approximately 8,200 employees worldwide. Our customers have traditionally benefited from proven solutions that increase productivity and improve efficiency and asset utilization. The Company is poised to drive, and capitalize on, the evolution of the data capture industry into the broader EAI industry, based on important technology trends like the Internet of Things (IoT), ubiquitous mobility, automation and cloud computing. EAI solutions offer additional benefits to our customers including real-time, data-driven insights that improve operational visibility and drive workflow optimization. Segments The Companys operations consist of two reportable segments: Asset Intelligence & Tracking (AIT) and Enterprise Visibility & Mobility (EVM). The AIT segment is an industry leader in barcode printing and asset tracking technologies. Its major product lines include barcode and card printers, supplies, services, location solutions, and retail solutions. Industries served include retail and e-commerce, transportation and logistics, manufacturing, healthcare, and other end markets within the following regions: North America; Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA); Asia-Pacific; and Latin America. The EVM segment is an industry leader in automatic information and data capture solutions. Its major product lines include mobile computing, data capture, RFID, and services. Industries served include retail and e-commerce, transportation and logistics, manufacturing, healthcare, and other end markets within the following regions: North America; EMEA; Asia-Pacific; and Latin America. Geographic Information For the year ended December 31, 2019 , the Company generated $4.5 billion of Net sales, of which approximately 50.4% were attributable to North America; approximately 32.6% were attributable to EMEA; and approximately 17.0% were attributable to other foreign locations. Relative Net sales attributable to each region is comparable with the prior year period. Acquisitions and Integration Acquisitions are accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations, with results included in the Companys operating results beginning on each respective acquisition date. Recent acquisitions contributed 1.9% to the current year consolidated Net sales growth. On November 5, 2019, the Company acquired Cortexica Vision Systems Limited (Cortexica), a provider of computer vision-based artificial intelligence solutions primarily serving the retail industry, for $7 million in cash. Additionally, we incurred approximately $2 million of acquisition-related costs in 2019, which primarily included third-party transaction and advisory fees and are reflected within Acquisition and integration costs on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The operating results of Cortexica are included within the EVM segment. On May 31, 2019, the Company acquired Profitect, Inc. (Profitect), a provider of prescriptive analytics primarily serving the retail industry. The Companys total purchase consideration was $79 million , which consisted of $75 million in cash paid, net of cash acquired, and the fair value of the Companys existing minority ownership interest in Profitect of $4 million , as 25 Table of Contents remeasured upon acquisition . Included within Other, net on the Consolidated Statements of Operations is a $4 million gain resulting from the remeasurement of the Companys previously held ownership interest in Profitect. Additionally, we incurred $13 million of acquisition-related costs in 2019, which primarily consisted of payments to settle Profitect employee stock option awards, as well as third party transaction and advisory fees. Those acquisition-related costs are included within Acquisition and integration costs on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The operating results of Profitect are included within the EVM segment. On February 21, 2019, the Company acquired Temptime Corporation (Temptime), a developer and manufacturer of temperature-monitoring labels and devices. In connection with this acquisition, the Company paid $180 million in cash, net of cash acquired. Additionally, we incurred $3 million of acquisition-related costs in 2019, which primarily included third-party transaction and advisory fees and are reflected within Acquisition and integration costs on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The operating results of Temptime are included within the AIT segment. On August 14, 2018, the Company completed its tender offer to acquire all outstanding common stock of Xplore Technologies Corporation (Xplore) for $6.00 per share. In connection with this acquisition, the Company paid $87 million in cash, which included $72 million for the net assets acquired, a $9 million payment of Xplore debt, as well as $6 million of other Xplore transaction-related obligations. Additionally, we incurred $8 million of acquisition-related costs in 2018, which primarily included third-party transaction and advisory fees, and $2 million of system integration costs in 2019. These costs are reflected within Acquisition and integration costs on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The operating results of Xplore are included within the EVM segment. On October 27, 2014, the Company acquired the Enterprise business from Motorola Solutions, Inc. (MSI) and began integration activities focused on creating One Zebra. Our integration priorities centered on maintaining business continuity while identifying and implementing cost synergies, operating efficiencies, and integration of functional organizations and processes, in addition to concluding MSI-provided transition service agreements (TSAs). During 2017, the Company substantially completed its integration activities associated with the Enterprise acquisition, including the implementation of a common enterprise resource planning system and exiting the TSAs. Restructuring Programs In the fourth quarter of 2019, the Company committed to certain organizational changes designed to generate operational efficiencies (collectively referred to as the 2019 Productivity Plan), which are incremental to the Companys 2017 exit and restructuring program (the 2017 Productivity Plan). The organizational design changes under the 2019 Productivity Plan will principally occur within the North America and EMEA regions, relate primarily to employee severance and related benefits, and are expected to be substantially completed in fiscal 2020. Exit and restructuring charges for the 2019 Productivity Plan were $8 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. Estimated remaining costs to be incurred in fiscal 2020 under the 2019 Productivity Plan are expected to be up to $10 million . The 2017 Productivity Plan, focused on organizational design changes, process improvements, and automation, built upon the exit and restructuring initiatives specific to the October 2014 Enterprise acquisition (the Acquisition Plan). The Company substantially completed all initiatives under the 2017 Productivity Plan and the Acquisition Plan in fiscal 2018 and 2017, respectively. Exit and restructuring charges relating to the 2017 Productivity Plan were $2 million , $11 million and $12 million for fiscal 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Exit and restructuring charges relating to the Acquisition Plan were $4 million for fiscal 2017. Cumulative costs associated with the 2017 Productivity Plan and the Acquisition Plan were $25 million and $69 million , respectively, and primarily consisted of severance and related benefits and lease exit costs. When reviewing the Companys results, our Chief Operating Decision Maker does not include Exit and restructuring costs in the operating results of our segments; as such, these costs are reported as a component of Corporate. See Note 9 , Exit and Restructuring Costs in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Impact of U.S. Tax Reform Enacted on December 22, 2017, the Tax Cut and Jobs Act (the Act) reduced the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, requiring companies to pay a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred. Based on current operations, the Company is subject to the Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income, Base Erosion Anti-Avoidance Tax, and the Deduction for Foreign-Derived Intangible Income provisions of the Act, for which we recorded income tax expense of $12 million and $10 million for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. We are not currently subject to the new limitations which defer U.S. interest deductions in excess of 30% of adjusted taxable income. However, the application of the interest limitation may apply in the future, depending on changes in the Companys business model. Additionally, the Company is no longer able to deduct performance-based compensation for its covered employees which 26 Table of Contents exceeds the limitation under amended Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m). These impacts are included in the calculation of the Companys effective tax rate. During 2017, the Company provisionally recognized an income tax expense of $72 million associated with the Act, comprised of a one-time transition tax of $37 million and $35 million remeasurement of its net U.S. deferred tax assets based on the federal statutory rate of 21%. During 2018, the Company finalized its analysis of the Act, including the one-time transition tax and measurement of net deferred tax assets, and recorded a $3 million income tax benefit as a result of differences between its final analysis and provisional analysis from the prior year. The final analysis included both federal and state tax effects based on legislative pronouncements through December 31, 2018. The Company also utilized a total of $28 million of available net operating losses, research and development credits, alternative minimum tax credits, and foreign tax credits, in order to substantially reduce its cash payments for the one-time transition tax. During 2019, there were no retroactive law changes that impacted the 2018 reassessment. See Note 16 , Income Taxes in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Other Developments In 2019, the Company incurred $5 million related to efforts to diversify its product sourcing footprint, to include sourcing products from Taiwan, Vietnam, and Malaysia, thereby reducing its reliance on Chinese-based manufacturing and the impacts of related customs duties (tariffs) on U.S. imports from China. These costs are primarily reflected within Operating expense on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company anticipates incurring additional one-time operating costs of up to $25 million by the middle of fiscal year 2020 as well as incremental equipment purchases of approximately $10 million to $15 million. As a result of these actions, along with certain U.S. pricing actions and based on current economic and operating conditions, the Company expects to substantially mitigate the ongoing financial impacts of Chinese tariffs. In December 2019, a strain of the coronavirus surfaced in Wuhan, China. In January 2020, a broad number of governmental and commercial efforts commenced to contain the spread of the virus in China. As a result, many of our supply chain partners in China temporarily suspended or modified their business operations beyond the normal Chinese Lunar New Year shutdown. As of February 10, 2020, operations have resumed, to varying degrees, at many of our supply chain partners. The situation is complex and rapidly-evolving. We are not yet able to fully ascertain its impact on our results of operations, either with respect to its impact on our manufacturing operations in China or with respect to its impact on our sales to customers in China. Our current expectation is the coronavirus outbreak could have a negative impact to our sales of between $0 and $50 million. This expectation is based solely on facts as we understand them to be today. The impact could be significantly greater if the coronavirus outbreak were to develop in a manner that is significantly worse than our current expectations. 27 Table of Contents Results of Operations: Year Ended 2019 versus 2018 and Year Ended 2018 versus 2017 Consolidated Results of Operations (amounts in millions, except percentages) Year Ended December 31, Percent Change 2019 vs 2018 Percent Change 2018 vs 2017 2019 2018 2017 Net sales $ 4,485 $ 4,218 $ 3,722 6.3 % 13.3 % Gross profit 2,100 1,981 1,710 6.0 % 15.8 % Gross margin 46.8 % 47.0 % 45.9 % (20) bps 110 bps Operating expenses 1,408 1,371 1,388 2.7 % (1.2 )% Operating income $ 692 $ 610 $ 322 13.4 % 89.4 % Net sales to customers by geographic region were as follows (amounts in millions, except percentages): Year Ended December 31, Percent Change 2019 vs 2018 Percent Change 2018 vs 2017 2019 2018 2017 North America $ 2,261 $ 2,041 $ 1,798 10.8 % 13.5 % EMEA 1,462 1,409 1,221 3.8 % 15.4 % Asia-Pacific 518 520 468 (0.4 )% 11.1 % Latin America 244 248 235 (1.6 )% 5.5 % Total Net sales $ 4,485 $ 4,218 $ 3,722 6.3 % 13.3 % Operating expenses are summarized below (amounts in millions, except percentages): Year Ended December 31, As a Percentage of Net sales 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 Selling and marketing $ 503 $ 483 $ 448 11.2 % 11.5 % 12.0 % Research and development 447 444 389 10.0 % 10.5 % 10.5 % General and administrative 323 328 301 7.2 % 7.8 % 8.1 % Amortization of intangible assets 103 97 184 NM NM NM Acquisition and integration costs 22 8 50 NM NM NM Exit and restructuring costs 10 11 16 NM NM NM Total Operating expenses $ 1,408 $ 1,371 $ 1,388 31.4 % 32.5 % 37.3 % Consolidated Organic Net sales growth: Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 Reported GAAP Consolidated Net sales growth 6.3 % 13.3 % Adjustments: Impact of foreign currency translations (1) 1.1 % (1.6 )% Impact of acquisitions (2) (1.9 )% (0.6 )% Consolidated Organic Net sales growth 5.5 % 11.1 % Consolidated Organic Net sales growth is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Measures section at the end of this item. (1) Operating results reported in U.S. Dollars are affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Foreign currency translation impact represents the difference in results that are attributable to fluctuations in the currency exchange rates used to convert the results for businesses where the functional currency is not the U.S. Dollar. This impact is calculated by translating the current period results at the currency exchange rates used in the comparable prior year period, inclusive of the Companys foreign currency hedging program. 28 Table of Contents (2) For purposes of computing Organic Net sales, amounts directly attributable to business acquisitions are excluded for twelve months following their respective acquisition dates. 2019 compared to 2018 Net sales increased $ 267 million or 6.3% compared with the prior year, reflecting growth in the North America and EMEA regions. Excluding the effects of acquisitions and unfavorable foreign currency changes, the increase in Consolidated Organic Net sales was 5.5% , primarily due to higher sales of mobile computing products and support services, which were partially offset by lower sales of data capture products. Gross margin decreased to 46.8% in the current period compared to 47.0% in the prior year period. AIT gross margin was slightly lower compared to the prior period, while EVM gross margin was unchanged. Operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 were $1,408 million and $1,371 million , or 31.4% and 32.5% of Net sales, respectively. As a percentage of Net sales, operating costs continue to trend favorably, reflecting continued operating leverage improvement. The current year Operating expenses include higher acquisition-related costs and costs associated with the diversification of the Companys product sourcing footprint, partially offset by lower incentive-based compensation costs. The prior year Operating expenses included a $13 million legal settlement cost. Operating income was $692 million for the current year compared to $610 million for the prior year. The increase was primarily due to higher Net sales and Gross profit, which were partially offset by higher Operating expenses. Total Other expenses, net was $94 million for the current year, compared to $86 million for the prior year. The current year benefited from lower interest expense due to lower outstanding debt levels and lower amortization of debt issuance costs. The current year also included a $19 million loss on interest rate swaps, $7 million of debt refinancing costs as well as $3 million in investment gains. The prior year included $10 million in investment gains, an $8 million gain on interest rate swaps as well as $7 million of debt refinancing costs. The Company recognized income tax expense of $54 million and $103 million for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. The Companys effective tax rates were 9.0% and 19.7% as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate compared to the prior year was primarily due to favorable changes in uncertain income tax positions. Results of Operations by Segment The following commentary should be read in conjunction with the financial results of each operating business segment as detailed in Note 20 , Segment Information & Geographic Data in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. To the extent applicable, segment results exclude purchase accounting adjustments, amortization of intangible assets, acquisition and integration costs, impairment of goodwill and other intangibles, exit and restructuring costs, and product sourcing diversification costs. Asset Intelligence & Tracking Segment (AIT) (amounts in millions, except percentages) Year Ended December 31, Percent Change 2019 vs 2018 Percent Change 2018 vs 2017 2019 2018 2017 Net sales $ 1,479 $ 1,423 $ 1,311 3.9 % 8.5 % Gross profit 736 710 640 3.7 % 10.9 % Gross margin 49.8 % 49.9 % 48.8 % (10) bps 110 bps Operating expenses 381 385 366 (1.0 )% 5.2 % Operating income $ 355 $ 325 $ 274 9.2 % 18.6 % AIT Organic Net sales growth: 29 Table of Contents December 31, 2019 2018 AIT Reported GAAP Net sales growth 3.9 % 8.5 % Adjustments: Impact of foreign currency translations (1) 1.0 % (1.5 )% Impact of acquisition (2) (2.7 )% % AIT Organic Net sales growth 2.2 % 7.0 % AIT Organic Net sales growth is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Measures section at the end of this item. (1) Operating results reported in U.S. Dollars are affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Foreign currency translation impact represents the difference in results that are attributable to fluctuations in the currency exchange rates used to convert the results for businesses where the functional currency is not the U.S. Dollar. This impact is calculated by translating the current period results at the currency exchange rates used in the comparable prior year period, inclusive of the Companys foreign currency hedging program. (2) For purposes of computing Organic Net sales, amounts directly attributable to the Temptime acquisition are excluded for twelve months following the February 21, 2019 acquisition date. 2019 compared to 2018 Net sales for AIT increased $ 56 million or 3.9% compared to the prior year, including the impacts of the Temptime acquisition and unfavorable foreign currency changes. AIT Organic Net Sales growth of 2.2% was primarily due to increases in printing products, support services, and supplies. Gross margin decreased to 49.8% in the current year compared to 49.9% for the prior year, primarily due to the unfavorable impacts of Chinese import tariffs and foreign currency changes, partially offset by favorable product mix. Operating income increased 9.2% due to higher Net sales, Gross profit, and lower Operating expenses. Enterprise Visibility & Mobility Segment (EVM) (amounts in millions, except percentages) Year Ended December 31, Percent Change 2019 vs 2018 Percent Change 2018 vs 2017 2019 2018 2017 Net sales $ 3,006 $ 2,795 $ 2,414 7.5 % 15.8 % Gross profit 1,371 1,274 1,073 7.6 % 18.7 % Gross margin 45.6 % 45.6 % 44.4 % 0 bps 120 bps Operating expenses 888 870 772 2.1 % 12.7 % Operating income $ 483 $ 404 $ 301 19.6 % 34.2 % EVM Organic Net sales growth: December 31, 2019 2018 EVM Reported GAAP Net sales growth 7.5 % 15.8 % Adjustments: Impact of foreign currency translations (1) 1.1 % (1.6 )% Impact of acquisitions (2) (1.4 )% (0.8 )% EVM Organic Net sales growth 7.2 % 13.4 % EVM Organic Net sales growth is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Measures section at the end of this item. (1) Operating results reported in U.S. Dollars are affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Foreign currency translation impact represents the difference in results that are attributable to fluctuations in the 30 Table of Contents currency exchange rates used to convert the results for businesses where the functional currency is not the U.S. Dollar. This impact is calculated by translating the current period results at the currency exchange rates used in the comparable prior year period, inclusive of the Companys foreign currency hedging program. (2) For purposes of computing Organic Net sales, amounts directly attributable to the Xplore, Profitect, and Cortexica acquisitions are excluded for twelve months following their respective acquisition dates. 2019 compared to 2018 Net sales for EVM increased $ 211 million or 7.5% compared to the prior year, including the impacts of acquisitions and unfavorable foreign currency changes. EVM Organic Net Sales growth of 7.2% was primarily attributable to higher mobile computing product sales and support services, which were partially offset by lower sales of data capture products. Gross margin was 45.6% in both the current and prior year periods, as the unfavorable impacts of product and business mix, Chinese import tariffs, and foreign currency changes collectively offset operational efficiencies. Operating income for the current year increased 19.6% due to higher Net sales and Gross profit, which were partially offset by higher Operating expenses. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Management prepared the consolidated financial statements of the Company under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. The application of these principles requires the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions which affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements. We believe that our estimates, judgments, and assumptions are reasonable based upon available information. Our more significant estimates and assumptions include those related to the recognition and measurement of income tax assets and liabilities, development of reporting unit fair values as part of our annual goodwill impairment testing, and the measurement of variable consideration and allocation of transaction price to performance obligations in revenue transactions. See Note 2 , Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of these as well as other accounting policies. New Accounting Pronouncements Effective January 1, 2019, the Company adopted a new accounting standard related to leases. See Note 2 , Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on this and other accounting pronouncements. Liquidity and Capital Resources The primary factors that influence our liquidity include the amount and timing of our revenues, cash collections from our customers, cash payments to our suppliers, capital expenditures, repatriation of foreign cash and investments, acquisitions, and share repurchases. Management believes that our existing capital resources, inclusive of available borrowing capacity on debt and other financing facilities, and funds generated from operations are sufficient to meet anticipated capital requirements and service our indebtedness. The following table summarizes our cash flow activities for the years indicated (in millions): Year Ended December 31, $ Change 2019 vs 2018 $ Change 2018 vs 2017 2019 2018 2017 Cash flow (used in) provided by: Operating activities $ 685 $ 785 $ 478 $ (100 ) $ 307 Investing activities (335 ) (137 ) (51 ) (198 ) (86 ) Financing activities (365 ) (661 ) (517 ) 296 (144 ) Effect of exchange rates on cash balances 1 (5 ) (4 ) 6 (1 ) Net change in cash and cash equivalents $ (14 ) $ (18 ) $ (94 ) $ 4 $ 76 2019 vs. 2018 The change in our cash and cash equivalents balance during the current year is reflective of the following: Cash flow provided by operating activities decreased by $100 million compared to the prior year. The decrease was primarily due to timing of vendor payments, timing of accounts receivable collections, as well as higher income tax and incentive compensation payments, which were partially offset by higher net income, reduced inventory levels, and lower cash payments for interest. The increase in net cash used in investing activities was primarily driven by business acquisitions. 31 Table of Contents The decrease in cash used in financing activities was primarily due to lower net debt repayments in the current year, including amounts borrowed to fund acquisitions, partially offset by repurchases of common shares in the current year. Company Debt The following table shows the carrying value of the Companys debt (in millions): December 31, 2019 2018 Term Loan A $ 917 $ 608 Term Loan B 445 Revolving Credit Facility 103 408 Receivables Financing Facilities 266 139 Total debt 1,286 1,600 Less: Debt issuance costs (6 ) (5 ) Less: Unamortized discounts (3 ) (4 ) Less: Current portion of debt (197 ) (157 ) Total long-term debt $ 1,080 $ 1,434 Credit Facilities The Companys debt includes borrowings under Term Loan A and a multi-currency Revolving Credit Facility, both maturing in 2024. Borrowings under the facilities bear interest at a variable rate plus an applicable margin, for which the Company has entered into interest rate swap contracts to manage interest rate exposure. All borrowings under the credit facilities as of December 31, 2019 were denominated in U.S. Dollars, except for 92 million in Euro-denominated borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility. The average interest rates as of December 31, 2019 for Term Loan A and the Revolving Credit Facility were 3.01% and 1.25% , respectively. Interest is paid for each instrument on a monthly basis. The Company is required to prepay certain amounts in the event of certain circumstances or transactions. Also, the Company may make prepayments against Term Loan A, in whole or in part, without premium or penalty. During the third quarter of 2019, the Company amended the terms of its credit facilities, which included increasing its borrowing under Term Loan A from $608 million to $1 billion and increasing its borrowing capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility from $800 million to $1 billion , while extending the maturities of each of these instruments to August 2024 . In conjunction with increasing its borrowing capacity under Term Loan A and the Revolving Credit Facility, the Company made a payment of $445 million to extinguish Term Loan B. This debt refinancing reduces the Companys future interest cost while meeting anticipated capital requirements. During the second quarter of 2018, the Company amended the terms of its credit facilities, which included the replacement of existing Term Loan A with a new Term Loan A of $670 million , increasing the borrowing capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility from $500 million to $800 million , and entering into a partial debt extinguishment of $300 million on Term Loan B. See Note 12 , Long-Term Debt in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to the Companys credit facilities and refinancing activities. Receivables Financing Facilities In December 2017, the Company entered into a Receivables Financing Facility with a financial institution that has a borrowing limit of up to $180 million . As collateral, the Company pledges a perfected first-priority security interest in its domestically originated accounts receivables. In May 2019, the Company entered into an Additional Receivables Financing Facility which allows for additional borrowings of up to $100 million , increasing the Companys total borrowing capacity to $280 million , using receivables as collateral. Both facilities are accounted for as secured borrowings and bear interest at a variable rate. As of December 31, 2019 , the facilities had an average interest rate of 2.60% and the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets included $545 million of receivables that were pledged, of which $266 million had been borrowed against. All borrowings under the facilities were denominated in U.S. Dollars. The Receivable Financing Facility will mature on March 29, 2021 and the Additional Receivables Financing Facility will mature on May 18, 2020 . Both the Revolving Credit Facility and Receivables Financing Facilities include terms and conditions that limit the incurrence of additional borrowings and require that certain financial ratios be maintained at designated levels. As of December 31, 2019 , the Company was in compliance with all debt covenants. 32 Table of Contents See Note 12 , Long-Term Debt in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. Receivables Factoring In addition to the Companys borrowing arrangements described above, the Company has Receivables Factoring arrangements. The first arrangement was entered into in December 2018, and a second arrangement was entered into in September 2019 under similar terms as the first. Under the Receivables Factoring arrangements, the Company sells certain EMEA-originated receivables to banks in exchange for cash without maintaining a beneficial interest in the receivables sold. At any time, the banks purchase of eligible receivables is subject to a maximum of $125 million of uncollected receivables. The Company services the receivables on behalf of the banks, but otherwise maintains no significant continuing involvement with respect to the receivables. Transactions under the Receivables Factoring arrangements are accounted for as sales under Accounting Standards Codification Topic 860, Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets with related cash flows reflected in operating cash flows. $60 million and $33 million of uncollected receivables were sold and removed from the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. The Company may enter into additional Receivables Factoring arrangements in the future in order to provide additional liquidity. See Note 19 , Accounts Receivable Factoring in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. Share Repurchases On July 30, 2019 , the Company announced that its Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program for up to an aggregate amount of $1 billion of its outstanding shares of common stock. The new share repurchase program supersedes the Companys prior share repurchase program, which was authorized in November 2011. The new share repurchase program does not have a stated expiration date. The level of the Companys repurchases depends on a number of factors, including its financial condition, capital requirements, cash flows, results of operations, future business prospects and other factors management may deem relevant. The timing, volume and nature of repurchases are subject to market conditions, applicable securities laws and other factors and may be amended, suspended or discontinued at any time. Repurchases may be effected from time to time through open market purchases, including pursuant to a pre-set trading plan meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5-1(c) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. During the year ended December 31, 2019 the Company repurchased 237,886 shares of common stock for $47 million . Cash and Cash Equivalents Included in the Companys Cash and cash equivalents are amounts held by foreign subsidiaries. The Company had $26 million and $39 million of foreign cash and cash equivalents included in the Companys total cash positions of $30 million and $44 million as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. Contractual Obligations Zebras contractual obligations as of December 31, 2019 were as follows (in millions): Payments due by period Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years Operating lease obligations (1) $ 152 $ 36 $ 54 $ 35 $ 27 Deferred compensation liability (2) 24 2 1 1 20 Debt principal payments 1,286 197 155 934 Interest payments (3) 146 40 69 37 Purchase obligations (4) 365 365 Total $ 1,973 $ 640 $ 279 $ 1,007 $ 47 (1) Includes leases of facilities, distribution centers, and sales and administrative offices that are classified as operating leases. The contractual obligations above include future minimum payments, including payments for those periods where renewal options are reasonably certain to be exercised. (2) Includes payments related to obligations under our deferred compensation plan. The deferred compensation plan allows certain members of management and other highly-compensated employees to defer receipt of a portion of their compensation. The amount in More than 5 Years includes the remaining total balance under the deferred compensation plan to be paid to participants who have not terminated employment, since we cannot estimate the timings of those terminations and withdrawals. (3) Includes payments related to interest on the Companys debt, as well as related settlements of interest rate swap agreements. These payments are estimated based on applicable interest rates and margins along with the balance of 33 Table of Contents outstanding debt as of December 31, 2019 . Future interest payments may increase or decrease based upon fluctuations in market rates and/or the Companys borrowing levels. (4) Purchase obligations are for purchases made in the normal course of business to meet operational requirements, primarily raw materials and finished goods. Purchase obligations included in the table above are based on quarterly forecasted component and manufacturing requirements and typically provide for fulfillment within agreed upon lead-times and/or commercially standard lead-times for products. The Company does not have contractual obligations related to take-or-pay arrangements. Uncertain tax benefits of $10 million have been excluded from the table above because we cannot reliably estimate the period of cash settlement, if any, with the respective taxing authorities. See Note 16 , Income Taxes in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Non-GAAP Measures The Company has provided reconciliations of the supplemental non-GAAP financial measures, as defined under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, presented herein to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. These supplemental non-GAAP financial measures Consolidated Organic Net sales growth, AIT Organic Net sales growth, and EVM Organic Net sales growth are presented because our management evaluates our financial results both including and excluding the effects of business acquisitions and foreign currency translation, as applicable. Management believes that the supplemental non-GAAP financial measures presented provide additional perspective and insights when analyzing the core operating performance of our business from period to period and trends in our historical operating results. These supplemental non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered superior to, as a substitute for, or as an alternative to, and should be considered in conjunction with the GAAP financial measures presented. 34 Table of Contents