Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, because they could have a material adverse effect on Zebras business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and growth prospects. These risks are not the only risks we face. Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial. We have organized the risk factors into three sections: (1) Risks related to our business; (2) Risks related to the Acquisition and Integration of Enterprise; and (3) Risks related to our Indebtedness. Risks related to our business Zebra has substantial operations and sells a significant portion of its products outside of the U.S. and purchases important components, including final products, from foreign suppliers. Shipments to non-U.S. customers are expected to continue to account for a material portion of net sales. Zebra also expects to continue the use of third-party contract manufacturing services with non-US production and assembly operations for our products. 11 Table of Contents Risks associated with operations, sales, and purchases outside the United States include: Fluctuating foreign currency rates could restrict sales, increase costs of purchasing, and impact collection of receivables outside of the U.S.; Volatility in foreign credit markets may affect the financial well-being of our customers and suppliers; Violations of anti-corruption laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act; Adverse changes in, or uncertainty of, local business laws or practices, including the following: Foreign governments may impose burdensome tariffs, quotas, taxes, trade barriers or capital flow restrictions; Restrictions on the export or import of technology may reduce or eliminate the ability to sell in or purchase from certain markets; Political and economic instability may reduce demand for our products or put our non-U.S. assets at risk; Potentially limited intellectual property protection in certain countries may limit recourse against infringing on our products or cause Zebra to refrain from selling in certain geographic territories; Staffing may be difficult along with higher turnover at international operations; A government controlled exchange rate and limitations on the convertibility of currencies, including the Chinese yuan; Transportation delays and customs related delays that may affect production and distribution of Zebras products; Effectively managing and overseeing operations that are distant and remote from corporate headquarters may be difficult; and Integration and enforcement of laws varies significantly among jurisdictions and may change significantly over time. Zebra may not be able to continue to develop products or solutions to address user needs effectively in an industry characterized by ongoing change. To be successful, Zebra must adapt to rapidly changing technological and application needs by continually improving its products, as well as introducing new products and services, to address user demands. Zebras industry is characterized by: Evolving industry standards, Frequent new product and service introductions, Evolving distribution channels, Increasing demand for customized product and software solutions, Changing customer demands, and Changing security protocols. Future success will depend on Zebras ability to effectively and economically adapt in this evolving environment. Zebra could incur substantial costs if it has to modify its business to adapt to these changes, and may even be unable to adapt to these changes. Zebra participates in a competitive industry, which may become more competitive. Competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technology and changes in customer requirements. Zebra faces significant competition in developing and selling its products and solutions. Some competitors have substantial marketing, financial, development, and personnel resources. To remain competitive, Zebra believes it must continue to effectively and economically provide: Technologically advanced systems that satisfy user demands, Superior customer service, High levels of quality and reliability, and Dependable and efficient distribution networks. Zebra cannot assure it will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. Increased competition in mobile computing products, data capture products, printers, WLAN products and solutions, or supplies may result in price reductions, lower gross profit margins, and loss of market share, and could require increased spending on research and development, sales and marketing, and customer support. Some competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships with suppliers or companies that produce complementary products, which may create additional pressures on Zebras competitive position in the marketplace. Zebra is vulnerable to the potential difficulties associated with the increase in the complexity of its business . Zebra has grown rapidly over the last several years through the Acquisition and worldwide growth. This growth has caused increased complexities in the business. We believe our future success depends in part on our ability to manage our growth and increased complexities of our business. The following factors could present difficulties to Zebra: 12 Table of Contents Managing our distribution channel partners; Managing our contract manufacturing and supply chain; Manufacturing an increased number of products; Increased administrative and operational burden; Maintaining and improving information technology infrastructure to support growth; Increased logistical problems common to complex, expansive operations; and Increasing international operations. Inability to consummate future acquisitions at appropriate prices could negatively impact our growth rate and stock price. Zebras ability to grow revenues, earnings and cash flow depends in part upon our ability to identify and successfully acquire and integrate businesses at appropriate prices and to realize anticipated synergies. Acquisitions can be difficult to identify and consummate due to competition among prospective buyers and the need to satisfy applicable closing conditions and obtain antitrust and other regulatory approval on acceptable terms. Zebra could encounter difficulties in any acquisition it undertakes, including unanticipated integration problems and business disruption. Acquisitions could also dilute stockholder value and adversely affect operating results. Zebra may acquire or make investments in other businesses, technologies, services, or products. An acquisition may present business issues which are new to Zebra. The process of integrating any acquired business, technology, service, or product into our operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Integration of an acquired company also may consume considerable management time and attention, which could otherwise be available for ongoing operations and the further development of our existing business. These and other factors may result in benefits of an acquisition not being fully realized. Acquisitions also may involve a number of risks, including: Difficulties and uncertainties in retaining the customers or other business relationships from the acquired entities; The loss of key employees of acquired entities; The ability of acquired entities to fulfill their customers obligations; The discovery of unanticipated issues or liabilities; Pre-closing and post-closing acquisition-related earnings charges could adversely impact operating results and cash flows in any given period, and the impact may be substantially different from period to period; The failure of acquired entities to meet or exceed expected returns could result in impairment of goodwill or intangible assets acquired; and The acquired entities ability to implement internal controls and accounting systems necessary to be compliant with requirements applicable to public companies subject to SEC reporting, which could result in misstated financial reports. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities. Infringement by Zebra or Zebra suppliers on the proprietary rights of others could put Zebra at a competitive disadvantage, and any related litigation could be time consuming and costly. Third parties may claim that Zebra or Zebras suppliers violated their intellectual property rights. To the extent of a violation of a third-partys patent or other intellectual property right, Zebra may be prevented from operating its business as planned and may be required to pay damages, to obtain a license, if available, or to use a non-infringing method, if possible, to accomplish its objectives. Any of these claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and divert the attention of key personnel. If such claims are successful, they could result in costly judgments or settlements. Also, as new technologies emerge the intellectual property rights of parties in such technologies can be uncertain. As a result, Zebras products involving such technologies may have higher risk of claims of infringement of the intellectual proprietary rights of third parties. The inability to protect intellectual property could harm Zebras reputation, and its competitive position may be materially damaged. Zebras intellectual property is valuable and provides Zebra with certain competitive advantages. Zebra uses copyrights, patents, trademarks, trade secrets, and contracts to protect these proprietary rights. Despite these precautions, third parties may be able to copy or reproduce aspects of Zebras intellectual property and its products or, without authorization, to misappropriate and use information, which Zebra regards as its trade secrets. Additionally, the intellectual property rights Zebra obtains may not be sufficient to provide it with a competitive advantage and may be successfully challenged, invalidated, circumvented, or infringed. In any infringement litigation that Zebra may undertake to protect its intellectual property, any award of monetary damages may be unlikely or very difficult to obtain, and any such award Zebra may receive may not be commercially valuable. Furthermore, efforts to enforce or protect Zebras proprietary rights may be ineffective and could result 13 Table of Contents in the invalidation or narrowing of the scope of Zebras intellectual property and incurring substantial litigation costs. Because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of Zebras confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. Some aspects of Zebras business and services also rely on technologies, software, and content developed by or licensed from third parties, and Zebra may not be able to maintain its relationships with such third parties or enter into similar relationships in the future on reasonable terms or at all. We currently use third party and/or open source operating systems and associated application ecosystems in certain of our products. Such parties ceasing continued development of the operating system or restricting our access to such operating system could adversely impact our business and financial results. We currently use third-party and/or open source operating systems and associated application ecosystems in certain of our products. As a result, we are dependent on third-parties continued development of operating systems, software application ecosystem infrastructures, and such third-parties approval of our implementations of their operating system and associated applications. If such parties cease to continue development or support of such operating systems or restrict our access to such operating systems, we would be required to change our strategy for such devices. As a result, our financial results could be negatively impacted because a resulting shift away from the operating systems we currently use and the associated applications ecosystem could be costly and difficult. A strategy shift could increase the burden of development on Zebra and potentially create a gap in our portfolio for a period of time, which could competitively disadvantage Zebra. Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt business operations. Like many companies, Zebra continually strives to meet industry information security standards relevant to our business. We regularly perform vulnerability assessments, remediate vulnerabilities, review log/access, perform system maintenance, manage network perimeter protection, and implement and manage disaster recovery testing. A cybersecurity incident could include an attempt to gain unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or causing operational disruption. Phishing and other types of attempts to obtain unauthorized information or access are often sophisticated and difficult to detect or defeat. A cybersecurity incident, including deliberate attacks and unintentional events, may lead to a material disruption of our core business systems, to the loss or corruption of confidential business information and/or to the disclosure of personal data that in each case could result in an adverse business impact, as well as, possible damage to the Zebra brand. This could also lead to a public disclosure or theft of private intellectual property and a possible loss of customer confidence. While we have experienced and expect to continue to experience these types of threats and incidents, there have been no material incidents incurred to-date at Zebra. If Zebras core business operations, or that of one of our third-party service providers, were to be breached, this could affect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of our systems and data. While we continue to perform security due diligence, there is always the possibility of a significant breach affecting the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of our systems and/or data. Zebra products that are deployed in customer environments also have the possibility of being breached, which could result in damage to a customers confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the customers data and systems. It is possible that such a breach could result in delays in, or loss of market acceptance of, Zebras products and services; diversion of our resources; injury to our reputation; increased service and warranty expenses; and payment of damages. Zebra may incur liabilities as a result of product failures due to actual or apparent design or manufacturing defects . Zebra may be subject to product liability claims, which could include claims for property or economic damage or personal injury, in the event our products present actual or apparent design or manufacturing defects. Such design or manufacturing defects may occur not only in Zebras own designed products but also in components provided by third party suppliers. Zebra generally has insurance protection against property damage and personal injury liabilities and also seeks to limit such risk through product design, manufacturing quality control processes, product testing and contractual indemnification from suppliers. However, due to the large and growing size of Zebras installed product base, a design or manufacturing defect involving this large installed product base could result in product recalls or customer service costs that could have material adverse effects on Zebras financial results. Defects or errors in Zebras software products could harm its reputation, result in significant cost to Zebra, and impair Zebras ability to market such products. Zebras software may contain undetected errors, defects, or bugs. Although Zebra has not suffered significant harm from any errors, defects, or bugs to date, we may discover significant errors, defects, or bugs in the future that we may not be able to correct or correct in a timely manner. It is possible that errors, defects, or bugs will be found in Zebras existing or future software products and related services with the possible results of delays in, or loss of market acceptance of, Zebras products and services, diversion of our resources, injury to our reputation, increased service and warranty expenses, and payment of damages. 14 Table of Contents Zebra depends on the ongoing services of its senior management and its ability to attract and retain key personnel. The future success of Zebra is substantially dependent on the continued services and continuing contributions of senior management and other key personnel. The ability to attract, retain, and motivate highly skilled employees is important to Zebras long-term success. Competition for skill sets in certain functions within our industry is intense, and Zebra may be unable to retain key employees or attract, assimilate, or retain other highly qualified employees in the future. Any disruption in the services of senior management or our ability to attract and retain key personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Terrorist attacks or war could lead to further economic instability and adversely affect Zebras stock price, operations, and profitability. The terrorist attacks that occurred in the United States on September 11, 2001 caused major instability in the U.S. and other financial markets. Since then, a number of significant acts of terrorism have occurred, and war continues in the Middle East, all of which may contribute to instability in financial markets. Additional acts of terrorism and current and future war risks could have a similar impact. Any such attacks could, among other things, cause further instability in financial markets and could directly, or indirectly through reduced demand, negatively affect Zebras facilities and operations or those of its customers or suppliers. Taxing authority challenges may lead to tax payments exceeding current reserves. Zebra is subject to, and may become subject to, ongoing tax examinations in various jurisdictions. As a result, we may record incremental tax expense based on expected outcomes of such matters. In addition, we may adjust previously reported tax reserves based on expected results of these examinations. Such adjustments could result in an increase or decrease to Zebras effective tax rate and cash flows. Future changes in tax law in various jurisdictions around the world and income tax holidays could have a material impact on Zebras effective tax rate, foreign rate differential, future income tax expense, and cash flows. Forecasting our estimated annual effective tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty, and there may be material differences between our forecasted and actual tax rates. Forecasts of our income tax position and effective tax rate are complex, subject to uncertainty and periodic updates because our income tax position for each year combines the effects of a mix of profits earned and losses incurred by us in various tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates, as well as changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the impact of various accounting rules and changes to these rules and tax laws, the results of examinations by various tax authorities, and the impact of any acquisition, business combination or other reorganization, or financing transaction. As a multinational corporation, we conduct our business in many countries and are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions. The taxation of our business is subject to the application of multiple and sometimes conflicting tax laws and regulations, as well as multinational tax conventions. T he European Union and countries within the European Union are contemplating changes to their respective tax laws based on the recent reports issued by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD)/G20 Base Erosion and Profit Shifting ("BEPS") Project, which, if enacted, could materially impact our tax liability due to our organizational structure and significant operations within Europe. Our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic distribution of our worldwide earnings or losses resulting from our structure and operating model, the tax regulations and tax holidays in each geographic region, and the availability of tax credits and carry-forwards. The application of tax laws and regulations is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment, and uncertainty. Tax laws themselves are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation, and the evolution of regulations and court rulings. Consequently, taxing authorities may impose tax assessments or judgments against us that could materially impact our tax liability and/or our effective income tax rate. Economic conditions and financial market disruptions may adversely affect Zebras business and results of operations . Adverse economic conditions or reduced information technology spending may adversely impact our business. General disruption of financial markets, similar to the disruption in financial markets from 2008 through 2009, and a related general economic downturn could adversely affect Zebras business and financial condition through a reduction in demand for our products by our customers. If a slowdown were severe enough, it could require further impairment testing and write-downs of goodwill and other intangible assets. Cost reduction actions may be necessary and might lead to restructuring charges. A tightening of financial credit could adversely affect our customers, suppliers, outsourced manufacturers, and channel partners (e.g., distributors and resellers) from obtaining adequate credit for the financing of significant purchases. Another economic downturn could also result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for Zebras products and services; negatively impact Zebras ability to collect its accounts receivable on a timely basis; result in additional reserves for uncollectible accounts receivable; and require additional reserves for inventory obsolescence. Higher volatility and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates for the U.S. dollar against currencies such as the euro, the British pound, the Chinese yuan , and the Brazilian real could negatively impact product sales, margins, and cash flows. A natural disaster may cause supply disruptions that could adversely affect Zebras business and results of operations. Natural disasters, similar to the earthquake that struck Japan in March 2011, may occur in the future, and Zebra is not able to predict to 15 Table of Contents what extent or duration any such disruptions will have on our ability to maintain ordinary business operations. The consequences of an unfortunate natural disaster may have a material adverse effect on Zebras business and results of operations. Zebra is exposed to risks under large, multi-year system and solutions and services contracts that may negatively impact its business. Zebra enters into large, multi-year system and solutions and services contracts with our customers. This exposes Zebra to risks, including among others: (i) technological risks, especially when the contracts involve new technology; (ii) financial risks, including the estimates inherent in projecting costs associated with large, long-term contracts and the related impact on operating results; and (iii) cyber security risk, especially in managed services contracts with customers that process personal data. Recovery of front loaded capital expenditures in long-term managed services contracts with customers is dependent on the continued viability of such customers. The insolvency of customers could result in a loss of anticipated future revenue attributable to that program or product, which could have an adverse impact on Zebras profitability. Zebra enters into fixed-price contracts that could subject it to losses in the event Zebra fails to properly estimate its costs. Zebra enters into a number of firm fixed-price contracts. If Zebras initial cost estimates are incorrect, Zebra can lose money on these contracts. Because many of these contracts involve new technologies and applications and require Zebra to engage subcontractors and can last multiple years, unforeseen events, such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in the price of raw materials, problems with Zebras subcontractors or suppliers and other cost overruns, can result in the contract pricing becoming less favorable or even unprofitable to Zebra and have an adverse impact on Zebras financial results. In addition, a significant increase in inflation rates could have an adverse impact on the profitability of longer-term contracts. Zebra utilizes the services of subcontractors to perform under many of its contracts and the inability of its subcontractors to perform in a timely and compliant manner could negatively impact Zebras performance obligations as the prime contractor. Zebra engages subcontractors on many of its contracts and as Zebra expands its global solutions and services business, Zebras use of subcontractors has and will continue to increase. Zebras subcontractors may further subcontract performance and may supply third-party products and software. Zebra may have disputes with its subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor or its subcontractors and the functionality, warranty and indemnities of products, software, and services supplied by Zebras subcontractor. Zebra is not always successful in passing along customer requirements to its subcontractors, and thus in some cases may be required to absorb contractual risks from its customers without corresponding back-to-back coverage from Zebras subcontractor. Zebras subcontractors may not be able to acquire or maintain the quality of the materials, components, subsystems and services they supply, or secure preferred warranty and indemnity coverage from their suppliers which might result in greater product returns, service problems, warranty claims and costs and regulatory compliance issues and could harm Zebras business, financial condition, and results of operations. Over the last several years we have outsourced portions of certain business operations such as repair, distribution, and engineering services and may outsource additional business operations, which limits our control over these business operations and exposes us to additional risk as a result of the actions of our outsource partners. As we outsource more of our business operations, we are not able to directly control these activities. Our outsource partners may not prioritize our business over that of their other customers and they may not meet our desired level of service, cost reductions, or other metrics. In some cases their actions may result in our being found to be in violation of laws or regulations like import or export regulations. As many of our outsource partners operate outside of the U.S., our outsourcing activity exposes us to information security vulnerabilities and increases our global risks. In addition, we are exposed to the financial viability of our outsource partners. Once a business activity is outsourced, we may be contractually prohibited from, or may not practically be able to, bring such activity back within the Company or move it to another outsource partner. The actions of our outsource partners could result in reputational damage to us and could negatively impact our financial results. Failure of Zebras suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers, and representatives to use acceptable legal or ethical business practices could negatively impact our business. It is Zebras policy to require its suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers, and third-party sales representatives (TPSRs) to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules, and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices, environmental compliance, anti-corruption, and trademark and copyright licensing. However, Zebra does not control their labor and other business practices. If one of Zebras suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers, or TPSRs violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are regarded as unethical, the shipment of finished products to Zebra could be interrupted, orders could be canceled, relationships could be terminated, and Zebras reputation could be damaged. If one of Zebras suppliers or subcontractors fails to procure necessary license rights to trademarks, copyrights, or patents, legal action could be taken against Zebra that could impact the saleability of Zebras products and expose Zebra to financial obligations to a third-party. Any of these events could have a negative impact on Zebras sales and results of operations. Zebra relies on third-party dealers, distributors, and resellers to sell many of its products. In addition to Zebras own sales force, Zebra offers its products through a variety of third-party dealers, distributors, and resellers. These third-parties may also 16 Table of Contents market other products that compete with Zebras products. Failure of one or more of Zebras dealers, distributors, or resellers to effectively promote Zebras products could affect our ability to bring products to market and have a negative impact on our results of operations. As Zebra implements a new channel program that covers both Legacy Zebra and Enterprise products, some of our third-party dealers, distributors, or resellers may decide not to migrate to the new channel program, thereby reducing our ability to bring products to market and have a negative impact on our results of operations. Some of these third-parties are smaller and more likely to be impacted by a significant decrease in available credit that could result from a weakness in the financial markets. If credit pressures or other financial difficulties result in insolvency for third-party dealers, distributors, or retailers and we are unable to successfully transition end-customers to purchase our products from other third-parties or from Zebra directly, it may cause, and in some cases has caused, a negative impact on our financial results. Final assembly of certain Zebra products is performed by third-party electronics manufacturers. Zebra may be dependent on these third-party electronics manufacturers as a sole-source of supply for the manufacture of such products. A failure by such manufacturers to provide manufacturing services to Zebra as Zebra requires, or any disruption in such manufacturing services, may adversely affect Zebras business results. Because Zebra relies on these third-party electronics manufacturers to manufacture its products, Zebra may incur increased business continuity risks. Zebra is not able to exercise direct control over the assembly or related operations of certain of its products. If these third party manufacturers experience business difficulties or fail to meet Zebras manufacturing needs, then Zebra may be unable to satisfy customer product demands, lose sales, and be unable to maintain customer relationships. Longer production lead times may result in shortages of certain products and inadequate inventories during periods of unanticipated higher demand. Without such third parties continuing to manufacture Zebras products, Zebra may have no other means of final assembly of certain of its products until Zebra is able to secure the manufacturing capability at another facility or develop an alternative manufacturing facility. This transition could be costly and time consuming. Although Zebra carries business interruption insurance to cover lost sales and profits in an amount it considers adequate, in the event of supply disruption, this insurance does not cover all possible situations. In addition, the business interruption insurance would not compensate Zebra for the loss of opportunity and potential adverse impact, both short-term and long-term, on relations with our existing customers going forward. Zebras future operating results depend on its ability to purchase a sufficient amount of materials, parts, and components, as well as services and software to meet the demands of customers. Zebra sources some of its components from sole source suppliers. Any disruption to its suppliers or significant increase in the price of supplies could have a negative impact on its results of operations. Zebras ability to meet customers demands depends, in part, on its ability to obtain in a timely manner an adequate delivery of quality materials, parts, and components, as well as services and software from its suppliers. In addition, certain supplies are available only from a single source or limited sources and Zebra may not be able to diversify sources in a timely manner. If demand for Zebras products or services increases from its current expectations or if suppliers are unable to meet Zebras demand for other reasons, including as a result of natural disasters or financial issues, Zebra could experience an interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies that could have a negative impact on its business. Zebra has experienced shortages in the past that have negatively impacted its results of operations and may experience such shortages in the future. In addition, credit constraints at Zebras suppliers could cause Zebra to accelerate payment of accounts payable by Zebra, impacting Zebras cash flow. In addition, Zebras current contractual with certain suppliers may be canceled or not extended by such suppliers and, therefore, not afford Zebra with sufficient protection against a reduction or interruption in supplies. Moreover, in the event any of these suppliers breach their contracts with Zebra, Zebras legal remedies associated with such a breach may be insufficient to compensate Zebra for any damages it may suffer. The unfavorable outcome of any pending or future litigation, arbitration, or administrative action could have a material adverse effect on Zebras financial condition or results of operations. From time to time Zebra is made a party to litigation, arbitration, or administrative actions. Zebras financial results and reputation could be negatively impacted by unfavorable outcomes to any pending or future litigation or administrative actions, including those related to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, or other anti-corruption laws. There can be no assurances as to the favorable outcome of any litigation or administrative proceedings. In addition, it can be very costly to defend litigation or administrative proceedings and these costs could negatively impact Zebras financial results. It is important that Zebra is able to obtain many different types of insurance, and if Zebra is not able to obtain insurance or exhausts its coverage Zebra may be forced to retain the risk. Zebra has many types of insurance coverage and is also self-insured for some risks and obligations. While the cost and availability of most insurance is stable, there are still certain types and levels of insurance that remain difficult to obtain, such as professional liability insurance, which is expensive to obtain for the amount of coverage often requested by certain customers. As Zebra grows its global solutions and services business, Zebra 17 Table of Contents is being asked to obtain higher amounts of professional liability insurance, which could result in higher costs to do business. Natural disasters and certain risks arising from securities claims, professional liability, and public liability are potential self-insured events that could negatively impact Zebras financial results. In addition, while Zebra maintains insurance for certain risks, the amount of its insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and Zebra may be forced to bear substantial costs from an accident, incident, or claim. Zebra is subject to a wide range of product regulatory and safety, consumer, worker safety, and environmental laws. Zebras operations and the products it manufactures and/or sells are subject to a wide range of product regulatory and safety, consumer, worker safety, and environmental laws and regulations. Compliance with such existing or future laws and regulations could subject Zebra to future costs or liabilities, impact its production capabilities, constrict its ability to sell, expand or acquire facilities, restrict what products and services Zebra can offer, and generally impact its financial performance. Some of these laws are environmental and relate to the use, disposal, remediation, emission and discharge of, and exposure to hazardous substances. These laws often impose liability and can require parties to fund remedial studies or actions regardless of fault. Zebra continues to incur disposal costs and have ongoing remediation obligations. Environmental laws have tended to become more stringent over time and any new obligations under these laws could have a negative impact on Zebras operations or financial performance. Laws focused on the energy efficiency of electronic products and accessories; recycling of both electronic products and packaging; reducing or eliminating certain hazardous substances in electronic products; and the transportation of batteries continue to expand significantly. Laws pertaining to accessibility features of electronic products, standardization of connectors and power supplies, the transportation of lithium-ion batteries, and other aspects are also proliferating. There are also demanding and rapidly changing laws around the globe related to issues such as product safety, radio interference, radio frequency radiation exposure, medical related functionality, and consumer and social mandates pertaining to use of wireless or electronic equipment. These laws, and changes to these laws, could have a substantial impact on whether Zebra can offer certain products, solutions, and services, and on what capabilities and characteristics Zebras products or services can or must include. These laws impact Zebras products and negatively affect Zebras ability to manufacture and sell products competitively. Zebra expects these trends to continue. In addition, Zebra anticipates that it will see increased demand to meet voluntary criteria related to reduction or elimination of certain constituents from products, increasing energy efficiency, and providing additional accessibility. Zebra has identified a material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting which could, if not remediated, result in material misstatements in its financial statements. Zebras management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls over its financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act. As disclosed in Item 9A of Part II of this report, Zebra identified in the first quarter of 2015 a material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting related to the process to review and prepare its quarterly income tax provision. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a result of this material weakness, Zebras management concluded that its internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of the last day of the period covered by this report. Zebra is actively engaged in developing a remediation plan designed to address this material weakness. If the remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weakness or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in the internal control are discovered or occur in the future, the consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and Zebra could be required to restate its financial results. Zebra could be adversely impacted by changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters. Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our businesses, including, but not limited to, revenue recognition, asset impairment, impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, inventories, customer rebates and other customer consideration, tax matters, and litigation and other contingent liabilities are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates, or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition. New accounting guidance may also require systems and other changes that could increase our operating costs and/or change our financial statements. For example, implementing future accounting guidance related to revenue and other areas could require us to make significant changes to our accounts receivable subledger or other accounting systems, and could result in adverse changes to our financial statements. 18 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Acquisition and Integration of Enterprise Zebra may be unable to effectively integrate Enterprise into its existing business. The integration of Enterprise into Zebras operations is a significant undertaking and requires significant attention from Zebras management. The Acquisition, with an approximate enterprise value of $3.45 billion, is significantly larger than prior acquisitions Zebra has completed and significantly increased the size of Zebras operations, increased its number of employees and operating facilities and expanded its geographic scope. There can be no assurance that Zebra will be able to successfully integrate Enterprise, or if such integration is successfully accomplished, that such integration will not be more costly than currently contemplated. There can also be no assurance that Zebra can successfully manage the combined business due to Zebras greatly increased size and scope. If Zebra cannot successfully integrate and manage Enterprise within a reasonable time following the Acquisition, Zebra may not be able to realize the potential and anticipated benefits of the Acquisition, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and growth prospects. Zebra may be unable to realize the expected growth opportunities and cost savings from the Acquisition. In connection with the integration of Enterprise into Zebras existing operating structure, Zebra seeks to realize growth opportunities, along with cost savings. The anticipated cost savings are based upon assumptions about Zebras ability to implement integration measures in a timely fashion and within certain cost parameters. Zebras ability to achieve the planned cost synergies relies upon a number of factors, some of which may be beyond its control. For example, Zebra may be unable to eliminate duplicative costs in a timely fashion or at all. Zebras inability to realize anticipated cost savings, and revenue enhancements from the Acquisition could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and growth prospects. The Acquisition could divert the attention of management. Zebra entered new lines of business that it lacks experience managing after completing the Acquisition. Similarly, because Enterprise is significantly larger than Zebras business prior to the Acquisition, Zebra will be required to manage new and larger lines of business, and consequently the integration process requires significant attention from management, which may divert managements attention from Zebras other businesses. Management may also have difficulty assimilating the corporate cultures, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees. These diversions, together with other difficulties Zebra may have in integrating Enterprise, could have a material adverse effect on Zebras business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and growth prospects. Customers of Enterprise or Legacy Zebra may decide to diversify their supply of products provided by Enterprise and/or Legacy Zebra by switching to competitors . Some of Zebras existing customers may conclude that as a result of the Acquisition they are overly reliant on a single provider. In such circumstances, Zebras customers may engage its competitors or facilitate the emergence of new competitors to diversify sourcing and service options, which could have an adverse effect on Zebras expected revenues following the Acquisition. Zebra continues to rely on MSI to perform certain critical transition services and there can be no assurance that those services will be performed timely and effectively or that Zebra can replace those services prior to the expiration of the transition services agreement or successfully develop its own operations going forward. Under the terms of the transition services agreement that Zebra entered into with MSI in connection with the Acquisition, MSI provided and continues to provide Zebra with services critical for the operation and continuity of Zebra's operation of Enterprise. Zebra has transitioned some of these critical functions, and is in the process of transitioning other critical functions, which primarily include information technology systems. Until Zebra transitions all such functions, it will continue to rely on MSI for those services. There can be no assurances that these remaining services will be performed timely and effectively or that Zebra will be able to successfully or timely transition remaining functions and assume responsibility over them. Significant disruption in these transition services, or unanticipated costs related to these services, could materially and adversely affect Zebras business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, if we are unable to transition such remaining services to Zebra in a timely fashion or without disruption to Zebras operations, we could experience an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and cash flows, and results of operations. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to document and test our internal controls over financial reporting and to report on our assessment as to the effectiveness of these controls. Any negative reports concerning our internal controls could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. We may discover areas of our internal controls that need improvement, particularly with respect to areas of our business impacted by the integration of our business processes, systems, and facilities. We cannot be certain that any remedial measures we take will ensure appropriate implementation and maintenance of adequate internal controls over the financial reporting processes and reporting in the future. We may incur significant additional costs in order to ensure we adequately remediate any weaknesses identified in our internal control environment, which, in turn, would reduce our earnings. Implementing any remedial measures may be complicated by the limited timeframe in which to implement such measures, the possibility that implementation of such measures may require a substantial amount of work and time by Zebra personnel, and the challenge of migrating to a new ERP while implementing such remedial measures. In addition, development of an integrated financial reporting system with the accompanying system of 19 Table of Contents internal controls to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 may increase the time and costs necessary to complete the integration of Enterprise or cause us to miss our reporting obligations. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report regarding the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. Failure to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the SEC, or other regulatory authorities. In addition, failure to comply with our reporting obligations with the SEC may cause an event of default to occur under the Debt Agreements, or similar instruments governing any debt we or our subsidiaries incur in the future. As part of the integration, Zebra is moving Enterprise off of its legacy ERP systems and implementing an ERP system under a single instance with Zebras legacy business. The implementation process is complex and involves a number of risks that may adversely affect Zebras business and results of operations. Zebra is currently replacing its multiple legacy business systems, including moving Enterprise off of its legacy systems that are being operated under a transition services agreement with MSI, with a new company-wide, integrated enterprise resource planning (ERP) system to handle various business, operating and financial processes for Zebra and its subsidiaries. The new system will enhance a variety of important functions, such as order entry, invoicing, accounts receivable, accounts payable, financial consolidation, logistics, and internal and external financial and management reporting matters. ERP implementations are complex and time-consuming projects that involve substantial expenditures on system hardware and software and implementation activities that often continue for several years. Such an integrated, wide-scale implementation is extremely complex and requires transformation of business and financial processes in order to reap the benefits of the ERP system. Significant efforts are required for requirements identification, functional design, process documentation, data conversion, user training and post implementation support. Problems in any of these areas could result in operational issues including delayed shipments or production, missed sales, billing and accounting errors and other operational issues. System delays or malfunctioning could also disrupt Zebras ability to timely and accurately process and report key components of the results of its consolidated operations, its financial position and cash flows, which could impact Zebras ability to timely complete important business processes such as the evaluation of its internal controls and attestation activities pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We have a substantial amount of goodwill and other intangible assets, which could, in the future, become impaired and result in material non-cash charges to our results of operations. As of December 31, 2015, we had $3.2 billion of goodwill and other intangible assets, a significant increase since prior to the Acquisition of Enterprise. At least annually, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment in the carrying value as defined by GAAP, we will evaluate this goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment by first assessing qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying amount. Estimated fair values could change if, for example, there are changes in the business climate, unanticipated changes in the competitive environment, declines in the financial condition of a reporting unit, adverse legal or regulatory actions or developments, changes in capital structure, cost of debt, interest rates, capital expenditure levels, operating cash flows, or market capitalization. Because of the significance of our goodwill and intangible assets, any future impairment of these assets could require material non-cash charges to our results of operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to our Indebtedness In connection with the Acquisition, Zebra incurred substantial debt obligations . Zebras total outstanding debt for borrowed money was approximately $3.25 billion on October 27, 2014. At December 31, 2015, the remaining principal amount of indebtedness was $3.09 billion. In addition, subject to restrictions in agreements governing Zebras existing and future indebtedness, Zebra may incur additional indebtedness. Zebras substantial level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: Zebra may experience difficulty in satisfying its obligations with respect to its existing indebtedness or future indebtedness; Zebras ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired; Zebra plans to use a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on its indebtedness, which may reduce the funds available to Zebra for other purposes, such as acquisitions and capital expenditures; Zebra may be at a competitive disadvantage with reduced flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changing conditions in the industry, including increased competition; and 20 Table of Contents Zebra may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in the business. Zebra expects to fund its expenses and to pay the principal and interest on its indebtedness from cash flow from operations. Zebras ability to meet its expenses and to pay principal and interest on its indebtedness when due depends on its future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, and other factors. Zebra will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions in the markets where Zebra operates and pressure from competitors. Additionally, Zebra has not previously undertaken substantial amounts of indebtedness. Historically, Zebra operated its business without incurring significant indebtedness for borrowed money and has limited experience operating its business subject to the constraints imposed by debt agreements. Despite its indebtedness, Zebra may need to incur substantially more indebtedness and take other actions that could further exacerbate the risk associated with its existing indebtedness . At December 31, 2015, the remaining principal amount of indebtedness was $3.09 billion. In addition to the financing activities, Zebra may need to incur substantially more indebtedness in the future, resulting in higher leverage. Subject to the limits contained in its Debt Agreements, Zebra may incur additional indebtedness from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. To the extent Zebra incurs additional indebtedness, the risks associated with its substantial indebtedness will be exacerbated. Zebras use of derivative financial instruments to reduce interest rate risk may result in added volatility in its quarterly operating results . Zebra does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. However, Zebra does utilize derivative financial instruments to reduce interest rate risk associated with its indebtedness. To manage variable interest rate risk, Zebra entered into forward interest rate swap agreements, which will effectively convert a portion of its indebtedness into a fixed rate loan. Under generally accepted accounting principles, the fair values of the swap contracts, which will either be amounts receivable from or payable to counterparties, are reflected as either assets or liabilities on Zebras Consolidated Balance Sheets. Zebra records its fair value change in our Consolidated Statements of Earnings, as a component of Other income (expense) if not hedged. The associated impact on Zebras quarterly operating results is directly related to changes in prevailing interest rates. If interest rates increase, Zebra would have a non-cash gain on the swaps, and vice versa in the event of a decrease in interest rates. Consequently, these swap contracts introduce complexity to Zebras operating results. Restrictive covenants in the Debt Agreements may limit Zebras current and future operations, particularly its ability to respond to changes in its business or to pursue its business strategies. The Debt Agreements contain, and instruments governing any future indebtedness may contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions, including restrictions on Zebras ability to take actions that Zebra believes may be in its interest. Zebra expects these covenants will limit its ability to: incur additional indebtedness or guarantees; pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem its stock or prepay or redeem certain indebtedness; sell or dispose of assets and issue capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; incur liens or enter into sale-leaseback transactions; enter into agreements restricting its subsidiaries ability to pay dividends; enter into transactions with affiliates; engage in new lines of business; consolidate, merge or enter into other fundamental changes; make loans, investments and/or acquisitions; and enter into amendments or modifications of certain material subordinated debt agreements or organizational documents. Additionally, the Term Loan entered into to fund a portion of the Acquisition requires Zebra to maintain in certain circumstances compliance with a consolidated total secured net leverage ratio. Zebras ability to comply with this ratio may be affected by events beyond its control, and Zebra cannot assure you that Zebra will meet this ratio. The restrictions could adversely affect Zebras ability to: finance operations; make needed capital expenditures; make strategic acquisitions or investments or enter into alliances; withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general; engage in business activities, including future opportunities, that may be in Zebras interest; and plan for or react to market conditions or otherwise execute Zebras business strategies. A breach of any of the covenants contained in the Debt Agreements (including an inability to comply with the financial maintenance covenants) that is not remedied within the applicable cure period, if any, would result in an event of default under 21 Table of Contents the Debt Agreements. If, when required, Zebra is unable to repay or refinance its indebtedness or amend the covenants contained in the Debt Agreements, or if a default otherwise occurs that is not cured or waived, the lenders or holders of Zebra debt securities could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable or institute foreclosure proceedings against those assets that secure the borrowings. Should the outstanding obligations be accelerated and become due and payable because of any failure to comply with the applicable covenants in the future, Zebra would be required to search for alternative measures to finance current and ongoing obligations of its business. There can be no assurance that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Any of these scenarios could adversely impact Zebras liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. A significant amount of cash will be required to service our indebtedness . Zebras ability to make payments on and to refinance its indebtedness and to fund working capital needs, general corporate expenditures and planned capital expenditures depends on Zebras ability to generate a significant amount of cash. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, business, legislative, regulatory, and other factors that are beyond Zebras control. If Zebras business does not generate sufficient cash flows from operations or if future borrowings are not available to Zebra in an amount sufficient to enable Zebra to pay its indebtedness or to fund its other liquidity needs, Zebra may need to refinance all or a portion of its indebtedness on or before the maturity thereof, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital, any of which could have a material adverse effect on Zebras operations. In addition, Zebra may not be able to affect any of these actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Zebras ability to restructure or refinance its indebtedness will depend on the condition of the capital and debt markets and its financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of its indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require Zebra to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict business operations. The terms of anticipated or future debt instruments may limit or prevent Zebra from taking any of these actions. In addition, any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and/or principal on outstanding indebtedness would likely result in a reduction of Zebras credit rating, which could harm its ability to access additional capital on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Zebras inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy its debt service obligations, or to refinance or restructure its obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would have an adverse effect, which could be material, on Zebras business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as on its ability to satisfy the obligations in respect of its indebtedness. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 2. Properties Zebras corporate headquarters are located in Lincolnshire, Illinois; a northern suburb of Chicago. Zebra also operates manufacturing, production and warehousing facilities, administrative, research, and sales facilities in other U.S. and international locations. As of December 31, 2015, Zebra owned 3 lab and warehouse facilities located in: Holtsville, NY; Preston, UK; and Mississauga, Ontario, Canada. The Company operates from 11 facilities for the purposes of manufacturing, production, and warehousing, 7 of which are located in the United States and 4 are located in other countries. As of December 31, 2015, the Company leased 123 office facilities, 41 of which were located in the United States and 82 were located in other countries. We generally consider the productive capacity of the plants to be adequate and sufficient for our requirements. The extent of utilization of each manufacturing facility varies throughout the year. Item 3. Legal Proceedings See Note 16 Contingencies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 22 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Stock Information: Price Range and Common Stock Our Class A Common Stock is traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol ZBRA. The following table shows the high and low trade prices for each fiscal quarter in 2015 and 2014, as reported by The NASDAQ Stock Market. 2015 High Low 2014 High Low First Quarter $ 92.48 $ 74.40 First Quarter $ 72.76 $ 52.61 Second Quarter 119.47 88.41 Second Quarter 87.53 60.06 Third Quarter 117.00 71.95 Third Quarter 86.02 72.10 Fourth Quarter 83.02 63.92 Fourth Quarter 79.11 58.95 Source: The NASDAQ Stock Market At February 22, 2016, the last reported price for the Class A Common Stock was $68.31 per share, and there were 157 registered stockholders of record for Zebras Class A Common Stock. In addition, we had approximately 24,950 stockholders who owned Zebra stock in street name. Dividend Policy Since our initial public offering in 1991, we have not declared any cash dividends or distributions on our capital stock. Zebra currently does not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Treasury Shares Zebra did not purchase shares of Zebra Class A Common Stock during 2015. In November 2011, Zebras Board authorized the purchase of up to an additional 3,000,000 shares under the purchase plan program and the maximum number of shares that may yet be purchased under the program is 665,475. The November 2011 authorization does not have an expiration date. 23 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data FIVE YEAR SUMMARY OF SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA (In millions, except shares and per share amounts) Year Ended December 31, (Loss)/Earnings (1) 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Net sales $ 3,652 $ 1,671 $ 1,038 $ 996 $ 983 Cost of sales 2,008 893 535 505 496 Gross profit 1,644 778 503 491 487 Acquisition and integration costs 144 127 5 3 Exit and restructuring costs 39 6 6 1 2 Other operating expenses 1,408 556 332 323 303 Total operating expenses 1,591 689 343 327 305 Operating income 53 89 160 164 182 (Loss) income from continuing operations before income taxes (164 ) (2 ) 17 (2 ) 164 164 180 (Loss) income from continuing operations, net of tax (137 ) 32 134 122 131 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (3) 1 44 Net (loss) income $ (137 ) $ 32 $ 134 $ 123 $ 175 Basic earnings per share: (Loss) income from continuing operations $ (2.69 ) $ 0.64 $ 2.65 $ 2.36 $ 2.42 Income (loss) from discontinued operations (3) 0.02 0.82 Net (loss) income $ (2.69 ) $ 0.64 $ 2.65 $ 2.38 $ 3.24 Diluted earnings per share: (Loss) income from continuing operations $ (2.69 ) $ 0.63 $ 2.63 $ 2.35 $ 2.40 Income (loss) from discontinued operations (3) 0.02 0.82 Net (loss) income $ (2.69 ) $ 0.63 $ 2.63 $ 2.37 $ 3.22 Weighted average shares outstanding Basic 50,996,297 50,789,173 50,692,942 51,566,468 53,853,579 Diluted 50,996,297 51,379,698 51,063,189 51,843,051 54,190,871 December 31, Balance Sheet (1) 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Cash and cash equivalents, investments and marketable securities $ 192 $ 418 $ 416 $ 394 $ 327 Working capital (4) 456 719 635 616 476 Total assets 5,024 5,539 1,120 968 899 Long-term obligations (5) 3,234 3,346 15 14 12 Stockholders equity 913 1,040 959 857 777 24 Table of Contents (1) Includes the Enterprise business from its date of acquisition October 27, 2014. (2) 2015 includes interest expense of $197 million and forward swaps gain of $4 million. 2014 includes interest expense of $57 million and forward swaps loss of $5 million. (3) In 2011, the Company sold two businesses, Navis, LLC and Proveo AG and reported the results as discontinued operations. (4) Calculated as current assets minus current liabilities. (5) Long-term obligations includes long-term debt, deferred revenue, and other long-term liabilities. 25 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview Percentage changes provided throughout Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations were calculated on amounts rounded to the nearest thousand. Zebra is a global leader respected for innovative EAI solutions in the automatic information and data capture solutions industry. We design, manufacture, and sell a broad range of products that capture and move data, including: mobile computers; barcode scanners and imagers; RFID readers; WLAN products; specialty printers for barcode labeling and personal identification; RTLS; related accessories and supplies, such as self-adhesive labels and other consumables; and utilities and application software. End-users of our products include those in the retail, transportation and logistics, manufacturing, healthcare, hospitality, warehouse and distribution, energy and utilities, and education industries around the world. Benefits of our solutions include improved efficiency and workflow management, increased productivity and asset utilization, real-time, actionable enterprise information, and better customer experiences. We provide our products and services globally through a direct sales force and extensive network of partners. We provide products and services in over 170 countries, with approximately 120 facilities and 7,000 employees worldwide. In October 2014, Zebra acquired the Enterprise from MSI, excluding its iDEN, or Integrated Digital Enhanced Network Business, for $3.45 billion in cash. Enterprise is an industry leader in mobile computing and advanced data capture technologies and services, which complement Zebras printing and RFID products. Its products include rugged and enterprise-grade mobile computers; barcode scanners and imagers; RFID readers; WLAN solutions; and accessories, software; and services that are associated with these products. Enterprise service revenues include sales arising from maintenance, repair, product support, system installation and integration services, and other services. Similar to Zebras pre-Acquisition business, Enterprises products and services are sold to a wide range of enterprise customers globally, including those in the retail, transportation and logistics, manufacturing, health care, hospitality, warehouse and distribution, energy and utilities, and education industries. Zebra financed the Acquisition through a combination of cash on hand and borrowings of $3.25 billion (the Indebtedness), including the sale of 7.25% senior notes due 2022 with an aggregate principal amount of $1.05 billion and a new credit agreement with various lenders that provided a term loan of $2.20 billion due 2021. The new credit agreement also included a $250 million revolving credit facility. Segments Commencing with the completion of the Acquisition in October 2014, the Companys operations consist of two reportable segments: Legacy Zebra and Enterprise. Legacy Zebra The Legacy Zebra segment is an industry leader in barcode printing and asset tracking technologies. Its major product lines include barcode and card printers, location solutions, supplies, and services. Industries served include retail, transportation and logistics, manufacturing, healthcare, and other end markets within the following regions: North America; Latin America; Asia-Pacific; and Europe, Middle East, and Africa. Enterprise The Enterprise segment is an industry leader in automatic information and data capture solutions. Its major product lines include mobile computing, data capture, RFID, WLAN, and services. Industries served include retail, transportation and logistics, manufacturing, healthcare, and other end markets within the following regions: North America; Latin America; Asia-Pacific; and Europe, Middle East, and Africa. Geographic Information. For the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company recorded $3.7 billion of net sales in its consolidated statements of operations, of which approximately 48.6% were attributable to North America; approximately 32.7% were attributable to Europe, Middle East, and Africa ("EMEA"); and other foreign locations accounted for the remaining 18.7%. 26 Table of Contents Results of Operations: Year Ended 2015 versus Year Ended 2014 and Year Ended 2014 versus Year Ended 2013 Consolidated Results of Operations (Acquisition of Enterprise impacted the last two months of 2014) (Amounts in millions, except percentages) Year Ended December 31, Percent Change 2015 vs 2014 Percent Change 2014 vs 2013 2015 2014 2013 Net sales $ 3,652 $ 1,671 $ 1,038 118.6 % 60.9 % Gross profit 1,644 778 503 111.3 % 54.5 % Operating expenses 1,591 689 343 130.8 % 100.8 % Operating income $ 53 $ 89 $ 160 (40.1 )% (44.5 )% Gross margin 45.0 % 46.6 % 48.5 % Net sales by product category were as follows (amounts in millions, except percentages): Year Ended December 31, Percent Change 2015 vs 2014 Percent Change 2014 vs 2013 2015 2014 2013 Hardware $ 2,865 $ 1,234 $ 740 132.2 % 66.6 % Supplies 268 265 244 1.2 % 8.7 % Service and Software 519 172 54 201.8 % 220.8 % Total Net sales $ 3,652 $ 1,671 1,038 Net sales to customers by geographic region were as follows (in millions, except percentages): Year Ended December 31, Percent Change 2015 vs 2014 Percent Change 2014 vs 2013 2015 2014 2013 Europe, Middle East, and Africa $ 1,194 $ 583 $ 326 104.8 % 78.6 % Latin America 220 135 99 63.6 % 35.9 % Asia-Pacific 463 216 153 114.2 % 41.4 % Total International 1,877 934 578 101.0 % 61.4 % North America 1,775 737 460 140.9 % 60.3 % Total Net sales $ 3,652 $ 1,671 $ 1,038 Operating expenses are summarized below (in millions, except percentages): Year Ended December 31, Percent Change 2015 vs 2014 Percent Change 2014 vs 2013 2015 2014 2013 Selling and marketing $ 486 $ 213 $ 138 128.0 % 54.5 % Research and development 394 151 91 160.8 % 65.8 % General and administrative 277 138 96 100.2 % 43.2 % Amortization of intangible assets 251 54 7 363.7 % 632.7 % Acquisition and integration costs 144 127 5 13.6 % NM Exit and restructuring costs 39 6 6 553.9 % 2.0 % Total Operating expenses $ 1,591 $ 689 $ 343 130.8 % 100.8 % 27 Table of Contents The Company's non-operating income and expense items and income taxes are summarized in the following tables (in millions, except percentages): Year Ended December 31, Percent Change 2015 vs 2014 Percent Change 2014 vs 2013 2015 2014 2013 Foreign exchange loss $ (22 ) $ (9 ) $ (1 ) 151.7 % NM Interest expense, net (194 ) (62 ) 213.0 % NM Other, net (1 ) (1 ) 5 (25.4 )% (126.8 )% Total other (expenses)/income $ (217 ) $ (72 ) 4 201.6 % NM Year Ended December 31, Percent Change 2015 vs 2014 Percent Change 2014 vs 2013 2015 2014 2013 Income tax (benefit) expense $ (27 ) $ (15 ) 30 76.7 % (150.7 )% 2015 compared to 2014 Net sales growth of 118.6% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2015 as compared to the prior year was primarily as a result of the Acquisition of the Enterprise business and higher North America sales, offset partially by $149 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects, net of hedges. The Enterprise business contributed $1,889 million or 95.3% of the increase in total net sales, increased gross profit by $809 million or 93.4%, and increased recurring operating expenses by $817 million or 95.9%, and non-recurring operating expenses by $41 million or 82.4%. Included within the total recurring operating expenses was an increase of $197 million of amortization expense as a result of intangibles acquired. Within non-recurring operating expenses were increases of $17 million of integration and acquisition costs as a result of IT costs of transitioning and exiting the Motorola platforms and $24 million of exit and restructuring costs as a result of integrating acquired facilities and related employees. Included in the total Enterprise impacts of 2015 versus 2014 are the following purchase accounting adjustments: a $10 million reduction in revenue related to the valuation of service contracts acquired, a $25 million decrease to cost of sales related to a step up in value of inventory acquired, and a $167 million increase in depreciation and amortization expenses. Net sales, excluding the impact of the Acquisition of the Enterprise business, increased by $92 million or 7.7% in 2015 versus 2014. The unfavorable impact of foreign currency reduced sales by $70 million. This increase is primarily due to sales growth in the North America and Asia-Pacific regions, specifically higher volumes of barcode printers and location solutions. Latin America sales were lower driven by a weak macro-economic environment. Consolidated net sales, excluding the effect of the Enterprise business, grew 12.5%, on a constant currency basis. Gross margin as a percent of sales, excluding the effect of the Enterprise business, was 50.9% for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to 50.0% in the comparable year ended December 31, 2014. This increase in margins reflects the favorable impact of higher unit sales within the North America and Asia-Pacific regions and lower product costs for both hardware and supplies, offset partially by unfavorable foreign currency effects, net of hedges. Operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2015, excluding the effect of the Enterprise business, were $414 million compared to $370 million in the prior year. Included in the increase were exit and restructuring costs within Legacy Zebra of $9 million related to organizational redesign. As a percentage of sales, operating expenses, excluding the Enterprise business, were 32.1% for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to 31.0% for the year ended December 31, 2014 primarily due to additional investments made to support business growth in the sales, research and development, and administrative functions, and exit and restructuring costs. Operating income for the year ended December 31, 2015, excluding the effect of the Enterprise business, increased $13 million or 6.1% compared to the prior year. The increase is primarily due to higher sales and gross profit, partially offset by higher operating expenses and the unfavorable foreign currency effects, net of hedges. The Company recognized a foreign exchange loss of $22 million for 2015 as a result of changes in the value of non-US dollar assets and liabilities primarily related to the Enterprise business that were not hedged during the period. Interest expense was $194 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to $62 million for 2014 mainly reflecting the indebtedness incurred related to the Acquisition of $3.2 billion borrowed in October of 2014. There was also $4 million of 28 Table of Contents forward interest rate swap gains in 2015 included in interest expense compared to a $5 million loss in 2014 primarily due to the changes in the market interest rates. In 2015, the Company recognized a tax benefit of $27 million compared to a tax benefit of $15 million for 2014. The Companys effective tax rates were 16.1% and (95.0)% as of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively. The Companys effective tax rate was lower than the federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to pre-tax losses in the United States and corporate structure realignment initiatives in various non-US jurisdictions. Since the date of the Acquisition, as part of its corporate initiatives of integrating the Enterprise business, the Company has been executing its integration plan for the Enterprise business (the Integration Plan). The Company anticipates completing the Integration Plan as soon as practicable and expects that the Integration Plan will allow the combined businesses to achieve further synergies and cost savings associated with the Acquisition. As part of the Integration Plan, the Company began realigning certain acquired assets of the Enterprise business with and into the Companys corporate structure and business model. 2014 compared to 2013 Net sales growth of 60.9% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2014 as compared to 2013 was primarily a result of the Acquisition of the Enterprise business and higher sales in all regions and product categories. The Enterprise business contributed $476 million or 75.3% of the increase in total net sales, increased gross profit by $180 million or 65.7%, increased recurring operating expenses by $185 million or 83.1%, and non-recurring operating expenses by $135 million or 108.5%. Included within the total recurring operating expenses were $47 million of amortization expense as a result of the Acquisition. Included within non-recurring operating expenses were $127 million of acquisition related costs also as a result of the Acquisition and $6 million of exit and restructuring costs related to organizational redesign. Included in the total Enterprise impacts of 2014 are the following purchase accounting adjustments: $6 million reduction in revenue related to the valuation of service contracts acquired, $29 million increase to cost of sales related to a step up in value of inventory acquired, and $35 million increase in depreciation and amortization expenses. Net sales, excluding the impact of the Enterprise business, increased by $157 million or 15.1% in 2014 versus 2013. The Company experienced net sales growth across all regions and all product categories in 2014 with notable increases in supplies and service contracts, and sales of tabletop, desktop, and mobile printers. Sales growth of $24 million was also derived from the December 2013 acquisition of Hart Systems, LLC. Gross margin as a percent of sales, excluding the effect of the Enterprise business, was 50.0% for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to 48.5% in the comparable year ended December 31, 2013. The improvement in gross margin reflected the favorable impact of higher sales, as well as product cost reductions on printers and supplies, and the December 2013 acquisition of Hart Systems LLC. The gross profit increase in 2014 versus 2013 was primarily due to the higher sales, improved gross margin percentage, and the December 2013 acquisition of Hart Systems LLC. Operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2014, excluding the effect of the Enterprise business, were $369 million compared to $343 million in the prior year. As a percentage of sales, operating expenses, excluding the Enterprise business, were 31.0% for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to 33.1% for the year ended December 31, 2013 primarily due to a higher rate of sales growth than the rate of increase in expenses. Operating income for the year ended December 31, 2014, excluding the effect of the Enterprise business, increased $68 million or 42.0% compared to the prior year. The increase is primarily due to higher sales and gross margin percentage improvement, which resulted in a gross profit increase of $94 million. This was partially offset by higher operating expenses to support business growth. The Company recognized a foreign exchange loss of $9 million for 2014 as a result of changes in the value of non-US dollar assets and liabilities that were not hedged during the period. Zebra did not hedge the Enterprise monetary assets until the second quarter of 2015. Interest expense was $62 million for the year ended 2014 compared to a minimal amount in 2013 mainly reflecting the indebtedness incurred related to the Acquisition. There is also $5 million of forward swap loss included in interest expense in 2014. In 2014, the Company recognized a tax benefit of $15 million compared to tax expense of $30 million for 2013. The Companys effective tax rates were (95)% and 18.1% as of December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, respectively. The 2014 29 Table of Contents rate benefit is primarily driven by foreign earnings taxed at lower rates and a domestic pre-tax loss, which is attributable to third-party interest expense and acquisition expenses. Results of Operations by Segment The following commentary should be read in conjunction with the financial results of each operating business segment as detailed in Note 21 Segment Information and Geographic Data in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K. The segment results exclude purchase accounting adjustments, amortization, acquisition, integration, and exit and restructuring costs. Legacy Zebra Segment (amounts in millions, except percentages) Year Ended December 31, Percent Change 2015 vs 2014 Percent Change 2014 vs 2013 2015 2014 2013 Net sales $ 1,287 $ 1,195 $ 1,038 7.7 % 15.1 % Gross profit 655 598 504 9.6 % 18.7 % Operating expenses 395 360 325 9.7 % 10.6 % Operating income $ 260 $ 238 $ 179 9.4 % 33.3 % Gross margin 50.9 % 50.0 % 48.5 % 2015 compared to 2014 Net sales for 2015 increased $92 million or 7.7% compared to 2014. Net sales growth compared to 2014 on a constant currency basis was $149 million or 12.5%. This reflects higher net sales for the North America and Asia-Pacific regions. Net sales in EMEA were essentially unchanged while Latin America net sales were lower. On a constant currency basis, net sales in EMEA increased 14% compared to 2014. The increase in net sales for the North America region was primarily due to higher volume of sales related to barcode printers and location solutions. The higher level of net sales for EMEA and Asia-Pacific regions reflected increased volumes of barcode printers. The decrease in net sales in the Latin America region was primarily driven by a weak macro-economic environment. Gross margin as a percentage of sales was 50.9% for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to 50.0% for 2014. This increase in margins reflects the favorable impact of higher unit sales and lower product costs for both hardware and supplies, offset partially by unfavorable foreign currency effects, net of hedges. Operating income for the year ended December 31, 2015, increased 9.4% as a result of higher sales and gross profit partially offset by increases in operating expenses and unfavorable foreign currency effects, net of hedges. Operating expenses increased compared to the prior year primarily to support business growth. 2014 compared to 2013 Net sales for 2014 increased 15.1% compared to 2013. This increase is a result of growth across all regions and across all product categories, with notable increases in supplies and service contracts, and sales of tabletop, desktop, and mobile printers. Increased services and software revenue is attributable to both organic growth and the December 2013 acquisition of Hart Systems LLC, which increased sales by $24 million. Movement in foreign currency, net of hedges, increased sales growth by $10 million. Gross margin for 2014 of 50.0% versus 48.5% for 2013, reflects the favorable impact of higher sales, as well as lower product costs, including the improved absorption of fixed costs and lower freight costs, and revenue associated with the December 2013 acquisition of Hart Systems LLC. Favorable movements in foreign currency, net of hedges, increased gross profit by $7 million. Operating income for the year ended December 31, 2014 increased 33.3% from the prior year. This is the result of 15.1% sales growth and gross margin improvement of 150 basis points. This resulted in a gross profit improvement of $94 million, or 18.7%. This was partially offset by increases in operating expenses to support business growth. 30 Table of Contents Enterprise Segment (amounts in millions, except percentages) Year Ended December 31, Percent Change 2015 vs 2014 2015 2014 Net sales $ 2,381 $ 482 393.9 % Gross profit 1,009 215 369.6 % Operating expenses 761 150 407.9 % Operating income $ 248 $ 65 281.6 % Gross margin 42.4 % 44.5 % 2015 compared to 2014 On October 27, 2014, the Company acquired Enterprise, an industry leader in mobile computing and data capture technologies and services, therefore 2014 only includes results since the acquisition date. For the year ended December 31, 2015, net sales for Enterprise were $2.4 billion compared to $482 million in 2014, which includes net sales only for the period following the Acquisition. Mobile computing, data capture, and repair services generated the majority of Enterprise net sales for the year in 2015 and 2014. The regions which accounted for the majority of 2015 and 2014 Enterprise net sales included North America and EMEA. Sales in the fourth quarter were $636 million, up 5.1% compared to the third quarter due to higher net sales in EMEA. Gross profit margin for the full year 2015 was 42.4%. Gross margin of 44.5% in 2014 reflects only the period following the Acquisition on October 27, 2014. Gross margin in the fourth quarter was 42.4%, comparable to the third quarter of 2015, reflecting higher gross margin in services offset by unfavorable foreign currency effects. Enterprise's operating expenses for 2015 were $761 million and operating income for 2015 was $248 million. Operating expenses in the fourth quarter decreased $12 million to 28.6% of sales compared to 31.9% in the third quarter of 2015 due to the improved operating leverage. Retail Solutions Group Goodwill The Retail Solutions Group reporting unit had total goodwill of $59 million as of December 31, 2015. During the fourth quarter of 2015, we finalized the determination of estimated fair value of the Retail Solutions Group reporting unit as of the first day of the fourth quarter of 2015. The determination of fair value and the allocation of that value to individual assets and liabilities within the Retail Solutions Group reporting unit requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions primarily include, but are not limited to: the selection of appropriate peer group companies; a control premium appropriate for acquisitions in the industries in which the Retail Solutions Group reporting unit competes; a discount rate; a terminal growth rate; and forecasts of revenue, operating income, depreciation and amortization, and capital expenditures. The estimate of fair value indicated that the fair value of the Retail Solutions Group reporting unit exceeded its carrying value by approximately 12% as of the valuation date. Although we believe our estimate of fair value is reasonable, actual financial results could differ from that estimate due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making such estimate. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Management prepared the consolidated financial statements of Zebra under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These principles require the use of estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions we used are reasonable, based upon the information available at that time. Our estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts in our consolidated financial statements. See Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K. 31 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources In connection with the Acquisition in October 2014, we incurred indebtedness totaling $3.25 billion. As of December 31, 2015, we had long-term debt totaling $3.09 billion. We did not have any borrowings against our revolving credit facility with $247 million available ($250 million less $3 million of outstanding letters of credit). See Note 14 Long-Term Debt in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K for further details and under Financing activities below. The primary factors that influence our liquidity include, but are not limited to, the amount and timing of our revenues, cash collections from our customers, capital expenditures, repatriation of foreign cash and investments, and acquisitions of third-parties. Management believes that existing capital resources and funds generated from operations are sufficient to meet anticipated capital requirements and service our indebtedness. The following table summarizes our cash flow activities for the years indicated (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 Cash flow (used in) provided by: Operating activities $ 111 $ 248 $ 194 Investing activities (148 ) (3,111 ) (153 ) Financing activities (149 ) 3,192 (44 ) Effect of exchange rates on cash balances (16 ) 2 1 Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents $ (202 ) $ 331 $ (2 ) The change in our cash and cash equivalents balance is reflective of the following: 2015 vs. 2014 Cash flows from operations decreased $137 million during 2015 to $111 million. While an increase in net loss of $169 million netted against an increase in non-cash operating items of $179 million yielded an increase in cash flow from operations of $10 million, the overall decrease in cash provided by operating activities is primarily attributable to changes in certain assets and liabilities of $147 million during 2015. These changes consisted primarily of a decrease in cash inflows related to accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $260 million offset by a $64 million decrease in cash outflows for accounts receivable and a $43 million increase in cash inflows for income taxes payable. Net cash used in investing activities during 2015 included additional consideration of $51 million paid to MSI in relation to the opening cash balance and working capital adjustments. In addition, there were capital expenditures of $122 million in 2015 compared to $39 million in 2014. The increase in capital expenditures in 2015 as compared to 2014 consisted primarily of investments in IT infrastructure, software applications, facilities, engineering, development, test equipment, and production and tooling equipment. Reflecting the effect of the Acquisition on the Companys capital structure, net cash used for investing activities during 2014 included $3.4 billion paid to MSI and purchases of marketable securities of $651 million offset by $644 million and $336 million of proceeds from the sale and maturity of investments in marketable securities, respectively. Net cash used in financing activities during 2015 consisted primarily of principal repayments of $165 million under the Term Loan compared to proceeds of $3.2 billion from the issuance of long-term debt to fund the Acquisition during 2014. Additionally, proceeds received from the exercise of stock options and employee stock purchase plan purchases ("ESPP") were $17 million this year compared to $26 million in 2014 reflecting decreased option exercises and ESPP purchases. The taxes paid related to the net share settlement of equity awards were $13 million in 2015 compared to $5 million in 2014 reflecting increased restricted stock trading activity. 2014 vs. 2013 Cash flows from operations increased $54 million during 2014 to $248 million. While a decrease in net income of $102 million netted against an increase in non-cash operating items of $13 million yielded a decrease in cash flow from operations of $89 million, the overall increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily attributable to changes in certain assets and liabilities of $143 million during 2014. These changes consisted primarily of an increase in cash inflows of accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $213 million offset by a $63 million increase in cash outflows related to accounts receivable. Net cash used in investing activities during 2014 included $3.4 billion paid to MSI in the Acquisition and purchases of marketable securities of $651 million offset by $644 million and $336 million of proceeds from the sale and maturity of investments in marketable securities respectively. During 2013, net cash used in investing activities included $95 million paid for the acquisition of Hart Systems LLC and $410 million for the purchase of marketable securities offset by $337 million and $49 million of proceeds from the sale and maturity of investments in marketable securities, respectively. Net cash provided by financing activities during 2014 consisted primarily of proceeds of $3.2 billion from the issuance of long-term debt to fund the Acquisition. Additionally, proceeds received from the exercise of stock options and ESPP were $26 32 Table of Contents million in 2014 compared to $23 million in 2013 reflecting increased option exercises and ESPP purchases. The taxes paid related to the net share settlement of equity awards were $5 million in 2014 compared to $8 million in 2013 reflecting decreased restricted stock trading activity. Effect of exchange rates on cash Certain assets on the consolidated balance sheet are denominated in foreign currency and, as such, include the effects of foreign currency translation. The effect of exchange rate changes on cash during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 were $16 million loss and $2 million gain, respectively. The following table shows our level of indebtedness and other information as of December 31, 2015 (in millions): Senior Notes $ 1,050 Term loan 2,035 Less: debt issuance costs (26 ) Less: unamortized discounts (47 ) Total outstanding debt $ 3,012 Private Offering On October 15, 2014, the Company completed a private offering of $1.05 billion in 7.25% Senior Notes due October 15, 2022. Interest on the Senior Notes is payable in cash on April 15 and October 15 of each year. The indenture covering the Senior Notes contains certain covenants limiting among other things the ability of the Company and its restricted subsidiaries, with certain exceptions as described in the indenture, to; (i) incur indebtedness or issue certain preferred stock; (ii) incur liens; (iii) pay dividends or make distributions in respect of capital stock; (iv) purchase or redeem capital stock; (v) make investments or certain other restricted payments; (vi) sell assets; (vii) issue or sell stock of restricted subsidiaries; (viii) enter into transactions with stockholders or affiliates; or (ix) effect a consolidation or merger. On December 31, 2015, the Company was in compliance with the covenants. Credit Facilities On October 27, 2014, the Company entered into a credit agreement, which provides for a term loan of $2.2 billion ("Term Loan") and a revolving credit facility of $250 million ("Revolving Credit Facility"). Borrowings under the Term Loan bear interest at a variable rate plus an applicable margin, subject to an all-in floor of 4.75%. As of December 31 2015, the Term Loan interest rate was 4.75%. Interest payments are payable quarterly. The October 2012 revolving credit agreement for $250 million with a syndicate of banks was terminated upon execution of this credit agreement. The Company has entered into interest rate swaps to manage interest rate risk on its long-term debt. See Note 13 Derivative Instruments in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for further details. The credit agreement requires the Company to prepay the Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facility, under certain circumstances or transactions defined in the credit agreement. Also, the Company may voluntarily prepay its obligations under the Term Loan at any time in whole or in part, without premium or penalty. The Company has made such optional principal prepayments of $165 million in 2015. In February 2016, the Company made additional optional principal prepayments of $80 million . Unless satisfied by further optional prepayments, the Company is required to make a scheduled principal payment of $1.99 billion due on October 27, 2021. The Revolving Credit Facility is available for working capital and other general corporate purposes including letters of credit. The amount (including letters of credit) shall not exceed $250 million. As of December 31, 2015, the Company had established letters of credit totaling $3 million, which reduced funds available for other borrowings under the agreement to $247 million. The Revolving Credit Facility will mature and the commitments thereunder will terminate on October 27, 2019. Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility bear interest at a variable rate plus an applicable margin. The applicable margin for borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility ranges from 2.25% to 2.75% depending on the Companys consolidated total secured net leverage ratio, which is evaluated on a quarterly basis. Interest payments are payable quarterly. As of December 31 2015, the Company did not have any borrowings against the Revolving Credit Facility. The Revolving Credit Facility contains certain covenants limiting among other things, the ability of the Company and its restricted subsidiaries, with certain exceptions as described in the credit agreement, to: (i) incur indebtedness, make guarantees or issue certain equity securities; (ii) pay dividends on its capital stock or redeem, repurchase or retire its capital stock; (iii) make certain investments, loans and acquisitions; (iv) sell certain assets or issue capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; (v) create liens or engage in sale-leaseback transactions; (vi) merge, consolidate or transfer or dispose of substantially all of their assets; (vii) engage in certain transactions with affiliates; (viii) alter the business it conducts; (ix) amend, prepay, redeem 33 Table of Contents or purchase subordinated debt; and (x) enter into agreements limiting subsidiary dividends and distributions. The Revolving Credit Facility also requires the Company to comply with a financial covenant consisting of a quarterly maximum consolidated Total Secured Net Leverage Ratio, (as defined in the credit agreement). This test is only required to be performed at the end of the fiscal quarter and when 20% of the commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility have been drawn and remain outstanding. The Term Loan and obligations under the Revolving Credit Facility are collateralized by a security interest in substantially all of the Companys assets as defined in the security agreement and guaranteed by its direct and indirect wholly-owned existing and future domestic restricted subsidiaries, subject to certain exceptions. Certain domestic subsidiaries of the Company (the Guarantor Subsidiaries) guarantee the Notes, the Term Loan and the Revolving Credit Facility on a senior basis: For the year ended December 31, 2015, the non-Guarantor Subsidiaries would have (a) accounted for 44% of our total revenue and (b) held 24% or $1.3 billion of our total assets and approximately 10% or $430 million of our total liabilities including trade payables but excluding intercompany liabilities. On December 31, 2015, the Company was in compliance with all covenants. Historically, significant portions of our cash inflows were generated by our operations. We currently expect this trend to continue throughout 2016. We believe that our existing cash and investments, borrowings available under our Revolving Credit Facility, together with cash flows expected from operations will be sufficient to meet expected operating, capital expenditure and debt obligation requirements for the next 12 months. As of December 31, 2015, the Company's cash position of $192 million included foreign cash and investments of $166 million. Management believes that existing capital resources and funds generated from operations are sufficient to finance anticipated capital requirements. Contractual Obligations Zebras contractual obligations as of December 31, 2015 were (in millions): Payments due by period Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years Operating lease obligations $ 140 $ 26 $ 47 $ 29 $ 38 Deferred compensation liability 9 9 Long-term debt principal payments 3,085 3,085 Interest payments 1,080 173 345 346 216 Interest rate swap 57 8 25 20 4 Purchase obligations 260 260 Total $ 4,631 $ 467 $ 417 $ 395 $ 3,352 Purchase obligations are for purchases made in the normal course of business to meet operational requirements, primarily raw materials and finished goods. Uncertain tax position liabilities of $36 million have been excluded from the above table as we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authority. 34 Table of Contents