Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, because they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and growth prospects. These risks are not the only risks we face. Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial. We have organized the risk factors into three sections: (1) Risks related to our business; (2) Risks related to the Acquisition and Integration of Enterprise; and (3) Risks related to our Indebtedness. Risks related to our business The Company has substantial operations and sells a significant portion of our products outside of the U.S. and purchases important components, including final products, from suppliers located outside the U.S. Shipments to non-U.S. customers are 10 Table of Contents expected to continue to account for a material portion of net sales. We also expect to continue the use of third-party contract manufacturing services with non-U.S. production and assembly operations for our products. Risks associated with operations, sales, and purchases outside the United States include: Fluctuating foreign currency rates could restrict sales, increase costs of purchasing, and impact collection of receivables outside of the U.S.; Volatility in foreign credit markets may affect the financial well-being of our customers and suppliers; Violations of anti-corruption laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act; Adverse changes in, or uncertainty of, local business laws or practices, including the following: Foreign governments may impose burdensome tariffs, quotas, taxes, trade barriers, or capital flow restrictions; Restrictions on the export or import of technology may reduce or eliminate the ability to sell in or purchase from certain markets; Political and economic instability may reduce demand for our products or put our non-U.S. assets at risk; Potentially limited intellectual property protection in certain countries may limit recourse against infringing on our products or cause us to refrain from selling in certain geographic territories; Staffing may be difficult along with higher turnover at international operations; A government controlled exchange rate and limitations on the convertibility of currencies, including the Chinese yuan; Transportation delays and customs related delays that may affect production and distribution of our products; Effectively managing and overseeing operations that are distant and remote from corporate headquarters may be difficult; and Integration and enforcement of laws varies significantly among jurisdictions and may change significantly over time. The Company may not be able to continue to develop products or solutions to address user needs effectively in an industry characterized by ongoing change. To be successful, we must adapt to rapidly changing technological and application needs by continually improving our products, as well as introducing new products and services, to address user demands. The Companys industry is characterized by: Evolving industry standards, Frequent new product and service introductions, Evolving distribution channels, Increasing demand for customized product and software solutions, Changing customer demands, and Changing security protocols. Future success will depend on our ability to effectively and economically adapt in this evolving environment. We could incur substantial costs if we have to modify our business to adapt to these changes, and may even be unable to adapt to these changes. The Company participates in a competitive industry, which may become more competitive. Competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technology and changes in customer requirements. We face significant competition in developing and selling our products and solutions. To remain competitive, we believe we must continue to effectively and economically provide: Technologically advanced systems that satisfy user demands, Superior customer service, High levels of quality and reliability, and Dependable and efficient distribution networks. We cannot assure we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. Increased competition in mobile computing products, data capture products, printers, or supplies may result in price reductions, lower gross profit margins, and loss of market share, and could require increased spending on research and development, sales and marketing, and customer support. Some competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships with suppliers or companies that produce complementary products, which may create additional pressures on our competitive position in the marketplace. 11 Table of Contents The Company is vulnerable to the potential difficulties associated with the increase in the complexity of our business . We have grown rapidly over the last several years through the Acquisition and worldwide growth. This growth has caused increased complexities in the business. We believe our future success depends in part on our ability to manage our growth and increased complexities of our business. The following factors could present difficulties to us: Managing our distribution channel partners; Managing our contract manufacturing and supply chain; Manufacturing an increased number of products; Increased administrative and operational burden; Maintaining and improving information technology infrastructure to support growth; Increased logistical problems common to complex, expansive operations; and Increasing international operations. Inability to consummate future acquisitions at appropriate prices could negatively impact our growth rate and stock price. Our ability to expand revenues, earnings, and cash flow depends in part upon our ability to identify and successfully acquire and integrate businesses at appropriate prices and to realize anticipated synergies. Acquisitions can be difficult to identify and consummate due to competition among prospective buyers and the need to satisfy applicable closing conditions and obtain antitrust and other regulatory approval on acceptable terms. The Company could encounter difficulties in any acquisition it undertakes, including unanticipated integration problems and business disruption. Acquisitions could also dilute stockholder value and adversely affect operating results. We may acquire or make investments in other businesses, technologies, services, or products. An acquisition may present business issues which are new to us. The process of integrating any acquired business, technology, service, or product into our operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Integration of an acquired company also may consume considerable management time and attention, which could otherwise be available for ongoing operations and the further development of our existing business. These and other factors may result in benefits of an acquisition not being fully realized. Acquisitions also may involve a number of risks, including: Difficulties and uncertainties in retaining the customers or other business relationships from the acquired entities; The loss of key employees of acquired entities; The ability of acquired entities to fulfill their customers obligations; The discovery of unanticipated issues or liabilities; Pre-closing and post-closing acquisition-related earnings charges could adversely impact operating results and cash flows in any given period, and the impact may be substantially different from period to period; The failure of acquired entities to meet or exceed expected returns could result in impairment of goodwill or intangible assets acquired; The acquired entities ability to implement internal controls and accounting systems necessary to be compliant with requirements applicable to public companies subject to SEC reporting, which could result in misstated financial reports; and Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities. Infringement by the Company or our suppliers on the proprietary rights of others could put us at a competitive disadvantage, and any related litigation could be time consuming and costly. Third parties may claim that we or our suppliers violated their intellectual property rights. To the extent of a violation of a third-partys patent or other intellectual property right, we may be prevented from operating our business as planned, and may be required to pay damages, to obtain a license, if available, or to use a non-infringing method, if possible, to accomplish our objectives. Any of these claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and divert the attention of key personnel. If such claims are successful, they could result in costly judgments or settlements. Also, as new technologies emerge the intellectual property rights of parties in such technologies can be uncertain. As a result, our products involving such technologies may have higher risk of claims of infringement of the intellectual proprietary rights of third parties. The inability to protect intellectual property could harm our reputation, and our competitive position may be materially damaged. Our intellectual property is valuable and provides us with certain competitive advantages. We use copyrights, patents, trademarks, trade secrets, and contracts to protect these proprietary rights. Despite these precautions, third parties may be able to copy or reproduce aspects of our intellectual property and our products or, without authorization, to misappropriate and use information, which we regard as trade secrets. Additionally, the intellectual property rights we obtain may not be sufficient to provide us with a competitive advantage and may be successfully challenged, invalidated, circumvented, or infringed. In any 12 Table of Contents infringement litigation that the Company may undertake to protect our intellectual property, any award of monetary damages may be unlikely or very difficult to obtain, and any such award we may receive may not be commercially valuable. Furthermore, efforts to enforce or protect our proprietary rights may be ineffective and could result in the invalidation or narrowing of the scope of our intellectual property and incurring substantial litigation costs. Because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of the Companys confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. Some aspects of our business and services also rely on technologies, software, and content developed by or licensed from third parties, and we may not be able to maintain our relationships with such third parties or enter into similar relationships in the future on reasonable terms or at all. We currently use third party and/or open source operating systems and associated application ecosystems in certain of our products. Such parties ceasing continued development of the operating system or restricting our access to such operating system could adversely impact our business and financial results. We are dependent on third-parties continued development of operating systems, software application ecosystem infrastructures, and such third-parties approval of our implementations of their operating system and associated applications. If such parties cease to continue development or support of such operating systems or restrict our access to such operating systems, we would be required to change our strategy for such devices. As a result, our financial results could be negatively impacted because a resulting shift away from the operating systems we currently use and the associated applications ecosystem could be costly and difficult. A strategy shift could increase the burden of development on the Company and potentially create a gap in our portfolio for a period of time, which could competitively disadvantage us. Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt business operations. Like many companies, we continually strive to meet industry information security standards relevant to our business. We periodically perform vulnerability assessments, remediate vulnerabilities, review log/access, perform system maintenance, manage network perimeter protection, and implement and manage disaster recovery testing. A cybersecurity incident could include an attempt to gain unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or causing operational disruption. Phishing and other types of attempts to obtain unauthorized information or access are often sophisticated and difficult to detect or defeat. A cybersecurity incident, including deliberate attacks and unintentional events, may lead to a material disruption of our core business systems, the loss or corruption of confidential business information and/or the disclosure of personal data that in each case could result in an adverse business impact, as well as, possible damage to our brand. This could also lead to a public disclosure or theft of private intellectual property and a possible loss of customer confidence. While we have experienced and expect to continue to experience these types of threats and incidents, there have been no material incidents incurred to-date at the Company. If our core business operations, or that of one of our third-party service providers, were to be breached, this could affect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of our systems and data. While we continue to perform security due diligence, there is always the possibility of a significant breach affecting the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of our systems and/or data. Our products that are deployed in customer environments also have the possibility of being breached, which could result in damage to a customers confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the customers data and systems. It is possible that such a breach could result in delays in, or loss of market acceptance of, our products and services; diversion of our resources; injury to our reputation; increased service and warranty expenses; and payment of damages. To date, we have had no material incidents related to the security on our products. Laws and regulations relating to the handling of personal data may result in increased costs, legal claims, or fines against the Company. As part of our operations, the Company collects, uses, stores, and transfers personal data of third parties and employees in and across jurisdictions. The governing bodies in such jurisdictions have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations regarding the collection, use, transfer, storage and disclosure of personal data obtained from third parties and employees; for example General Data Protection Regulation effective May 2018. These laws may result in burdensome or inconsistent requirements affecting the collection, use, storage, transfer and disclosure of our third party and employee personal data. Compliance may require changes in services, business practices, or internal systems that result in increased costs, lower revenue, reduced efficiency, or greater difficulty in competing with foreign-based firms. Failure to comply with existing or new rules may result in claims against the Company or significant penalties or orders to stop the alleged noncompliant activity. We may incur liabilities as a result of product failures due to actual or apparent design or manufacturing defects . We may be subject to product liability claims, which could include claims for property or economic damage or personal injury, in the event our products present actual or apparent design or manufacturing defects. Such design or manufacturing defects may occur not only in our own designed products but also in components provided by third party suppliers. We generally have insurance protection against property damage and personal injury liabilities and also seek to limit such risk through product design, 13 Table of Contents manufacturing quality control processes, product testing and contractual indemnification from suppliers. However, due to the large and growing size of the Companys installed product base, a design or manufacturing defect involving this large installed product base could result in product recalls or customer service costs that could have material adverse effects on our financial results. Defects or errors in the Companys software products could harm our reputation, result in significant cost to us, and impair our ability to market such products. Our software may contain undetected errors, defects, or bugs. Although we have not suffered significant harm from any errors, defects, or bugs to date, we may discover significant errors, defects, or bugs in the future that we may not be able to correct or correct in a timely manner. It is possible that errors, defects, or bugs will be found in our existing or future software products and related services with the possible results of delays in, or loss of market acceptance of, our products and services, diversion of our resources, injury to our reputation, increased service and warranty expenses, and payment of damages. We depend on the ongoing services of our senior management and the ability to attract and retain key personnel. The future success of the Company is substantially dependent on the continued services and continuing contributions of senior management and other key personnel. The ability to attract, retain, and motivate highly skilled employees is important to our long-term success. Competition for skill sets in certain functions within our industry is intense, and we may be unable to retain key employees or attract, assimilate, or retain other highly qualified employees in the future. Any disruption in the services of senior management or our ability to attract and retain key personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Terrorist attacks or war could lead to further economic instability and adversely affect the Companys stock price, operations, and profitability. The terrorist attacks that occurred in the United States on September 11, 2001 caused major instability in the U.S. and other financial markets. Since then, a number of significant acts of terrorism have occurred, and war continues in the Middle East, all of which may contribute to instability in financial markets. Additional acts of terrorism and current and future war risks could have a similar impact. Any such attacks could, among other things, cause further instability in financial markets and could directly, or indirectly through reduced demand, negatively affect our facilities and operations or those of our customers or suppliers. The impact of potential changes in tax and trade policies in the United States and the potential corresponding actions by other countries in which the Company does business could adversely affect our financial performance. The U.S. government has recently proposed comprehensive tax and trade reform. These proposals are designed to encourage increased production in the United States and include a border tax on imports, an increase in customs duties and the renegotiation of U.S. trade agreements. The Company imports a significant percentage of our products into the United States, and the imposition of a border tax or an increase in customs duties with respect to these imports could negatively impact the Companys financial performance. If such taxes or customs duties are implemented, it also may cause the U.S. trading partners to take actions with respect to U.S. imports or U.S. investment activities in their respective countries. Any potential changes in tax and trade policies in the United States and the potential corresponding actions by other countries in which the Company does business could adversely affect the Companys financial performance. Given the level of uncertainty over which provisions will be enacted, the Company cannot predict with certainty the impact of the proposals. Taxing authority challenges may lead to tax payments exceeding current reserves. We are subject to, and may become subject to, ongoing tax examinations in various jurisdictions. As a result, we may record incremental tax expense based on expected outcomes of such matters. In addition, we may adjust previously reported tax reserves based on expected results of these examinations. Such adjustments could result in an increase or decrease to the Companys effective tax rate and cash flows. Future changes in tax law in various jurisdictions around the world and income tax holidays could have a material impact on our effective tax rate, foreign rate differential, future income tax expense, and cash flows. Forecasting our estimated annual effective tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty, and there may be material differences between our forecasted and actual tax rates. Forecasts of our income tax position and effective tax rate are complex, subject to uncertainty and periodic updates because our income tax position for each year combines the effects of a mix of profits earned and losses incurred by us in various tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates, as well as changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the impact of various accounting rules and changes to these rules and tax laws, the results of examinations by various tax authorities, and the impact of any acquisition, business combination, disposition or other reorganization, or financing transaction. As a multinational corporation, we conduct our business in many countries and are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions. The taxation of our business is subject to the application of multiple and sometimes conflicting tax laws and regulations, as well as multinational tax conventions. T he European Union and countries within the European Union are contemplating changes to their respective tax laws based on the recent reports issued by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development 14 Table of Contents (OECD)/G20 Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) Project, which, if enacted, could materially impact our tax liability due to our organizational structure and significant operations within Europe. Our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic distribution of our worldwide earnings or losses resulting from our structure and operating model, the tax regulations and tax holidays in each geographic region, and the availability of tax credits and carry-forwards. The application of tax laws and regulations is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment, and uncertainty. Tax laws themselves are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation, and the evolution of regulations and court rulings. Consequently, taxing authorities may impose tax assessments or judgments against us that could materially impact our tax liability and/or our effective income tax rate. Economic conditions and financial market disruptions may adversely affect our business and results of operations . Adverse economic conditions or reduced information technology spending may adversely impact our business. General disruption of financial markets and a related general economic downturn could adversely affect our business and financial condition through a reduction in demand for our products by our customers. If a slowdown were severe enough, it could require further impairment testing and write-downs of goodwill and other intangible assets. Cost reduction actions may be necessary and might lead to restructuring charges. A tightening of financial credit could adversely affect our customers, suppliers, outsourced manufacturers, and channel partners (e.g., distributors and resellers) from obtaining adequate credit for the financing of significant purchases. Another economic downturn could also result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for our products and services; negatively impacting the ability to collect accounts receivable on a timely basis; result in additional reserves for uncollectible accounts receivable; and require additional reserves for inventory obsolescence. Higher volatility and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates for the U.S. dollar against currencies such as the euro, the British pound, the Chinese yuan , and the Brazilian real could negatively impact product sales, margins, and cash flows. A natural disaster may cause supply disruptions that could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Natural disasters may occur in the future, and the Company is not able to predict to what extent or duration any such disruptions will have on our ability to maintain ordinary business operations. The consequences of an unfortunate natural disaster may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We could be adversely impacted by the United Kingdoms referendum on withdrawal from the European Union. We maintain our European regional headquarters and a label converting facility in the U.K. and have significant operations and sales throughout Europe. Because the terms of the U.K.s withdrawal are uncertain, we are unable at this time to determine the impact on our operations and business in the U.K. and Europe. The U.K.s referendum has resulted, and is expected to continue to result, in market volatility, including fluctuations in the British Pound, that could adversely impact our operating costs in the U.K. Such market volatility could also cause customers to alter or delay buying decisions that would adversely impact our sales in the U.K. and throughout Europe. A significant portion of our business involves cross border transactions throughout the region. Future trade agreements between the U.K. and the European Union could adversely impact our operations in the region by increasing costs on or importation requirements on shipments between our distribution center in the Netherlands and customers in the U.K. or between our facility in the U.K. and customers in the European Union. We are exposed to risks under large, multi-year system and solutions and services contracts that may negatively impact our business. We enter into large, multi-year system and solutions and services contracts with our customers. This exposes us to risks, including among others: (i) technological risks, especially when the contracts involve new technology; (ii) financial risks, including the estimates inherent in projecting costs associated with large, long-term contracts and the related impact on operating results; and (iii) cyber security risk, especially in managed services contracts with customers that process personal data. Recovery of front loaded capital expenditures in long-term managed services contracts with customers is dependent on the continued viability of such customers. The insolvency of customers could result in a loss of anticipated future revenue attributable to that program or product, which could have an adverse impact on our profitability. We enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event we fail to properly estimate our costs. If our initial cost estimates are incorrect, we can lose money on these contracts. Because many of these contracts involve new technologies and applications and require the Company to engage subcontractors and can last multiple years, unforeseen events, such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in the price of raw materials, problems with our subcontractors or suppliers and other cost overruns, can result in the contract pricing becoming less favorable or even unprofitable to us and have an adverse impact on our financial results. In addition, a significant increase in inflation rates could have an adverse impact on the profitability of longer-term contracts. We utilize the services of subcontractors to perform under many of our contracts and the inability of our subcontractors to perform in a timely and compliant manner could negatively impact our performance obligations as the prime contractor. We engage subcontractors on many of our contracts and as we expand our global solutions and services business, our use of subcontractors has and will continue to increase. Our subcontractors may further subcontract performance and may supply third-party products and software. We may have disputes with our subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and 15 Table of Contents timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor or our subcontractors and the functionality, warranty and indemnities of products, software, and services supplied by our subcontractor. We are not always successful in passing along customer requirements to our subcontractors, and thus in some cases may be required to absorb contractual risks from our customers without corresponding back-to-back coverage from our subcontractor. Our subcontractors may not be able to acquire or maintain the quality of the materials, components, subsystems and services they supply, or secure preferred warranty and indemnity coverage from their suppliers which might result in greater product returns, service problems, warranty claims and costs and regulatory compliance issues and could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Over the last several years we have outsourced portions of certain business operations such as repair, distribution, engineering services and information technology services and may outsource additional business operations, which limits our control over these business operations and exposes us to additional risk as a result of the actions of our outsource partners. As we outsource more of our business operations, we are not able to directly control these activities. Our outsource partners may not prioritize our business over that of their other customers and they may not meet our desired level of service, cost reductions, or other metrics. In some cases, their actions may result in our being found to be in violation of laws or regulations like import or export regulations. As many of our outsource partners operate outside of the U.S., our outsourcing activity exposes us to information security vulnerabilities and increases our global risks. In addition, we are exposed to the financial viability of our outsource partners. Once a business activity is outsourced, we may be contractually prohibited from, or may not practically be able to, bring such activity back within the Company or move it to another outsource partner. The actions of our outsource partners could result in reputational damage to us and could negatively impact our financial results. Failure of our suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers, and representatives to use acceptable legal or ethical business practices could negatively impact our business. It is our policy to require suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers, and third-party sales representatives (TPSRs) to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules, and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices, environmental compliance, anti-corruption, and trademark and copyright licensing. However, we do not control their labor and other business practices. If one of our suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers, or TPSRs violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are regarded as unethical, the shipment of finished products to us could be interrupted, orders could be canceled, relationships could be terminated, and our reputation could be damaged. If one of our suppliers or subcontractors fails to procure necessary license rights to trademarks, copyrights, or patents, legal action could be taken against us that could impact the saleability of the Companys products and expose us to financial obligations to a third-party. Any of these events could have a negative impact on our sales and results of operations. We rely on third-party dealers, distributors, and resellers to sell many of our products. In addition to our own sales force, we offer our products through a variety of third-party dealers, distributors, and resellers. These third-parties may also market other products that compete with our products. Failure of one or more of our dealers, distributors, or resellers to effectively promote our products could affect our ability to bring products to market and have a negative impact on our results of operations. As the Company refines our recently implemented channel program, some of our third-party dealers, distributors or resellers may exit the program due to modifications to the program structure, thereby reducing our ability to bring products to market and have a negative impact on our results of operations. Some of these third-parties are smaller and more likely to be impacted by a significant decrease in available credit that could result from a weakness in the financial markets. If credit pressures or other financial difficulties result in insolvency for third-party dealers, distributors, or retailers and we are unable to successfully transition end-customers to purchase our products from other third-parties or from us directly, it may cause, and in some cases has caused, a negative impact on our financial results. Final assembly of certain of our products is performed by third-party electronics manufacturers. We may be dependent on these third-party electronics manufacturers as a sole-source of supply for the manufacture of such products. A failure by such manufacturers to provide manufacturing services to us as we require, or any disruption in such manufacturing services up to and including a catastrophic shut-down, may adversely affect our business results. Because we rely on these third-party electronics manufacturers to manufacture our products, we may incur increased business continuity risks. We are not able to exercise direct control over the assembly or related operations of certain of our products. If these third party manufacturers experience business difficulties or fail to meet our manufacturing needs, then we may be unable to satisfy customer product demands, lose sales, and be unable to maintain customer relationships. Longer production lead times may result in shortages of certain products and inadequate inventories during periods of unanticipated higher demand. Without such third parties continuing to manufacture our products, we may have no other means of final assembly of certain of our products until we are able to secure the manufacturing capability at another facility or develop an alternative manufacturing facility. This transition could be costly and time consuming. Although we carry business interruption insurance to cover lost sales and profits in an amount it considers adequate, in the event of supply disruption, this insurance does not cover all possible situations. In addition, the business interruption insurance 16 Table of Contents would not compensate us for the loss of opportunity and potential adverse impact, both short-term and long-term, on relations with our existing customers going forward. Our future operating results depend on our ability to purchase a sufficient amount of materials, parts, and components, as well as services and software to meet the demands of customers. We source some of our components from sole source suppliers. Any disruption to our suppliers or significant increase in the price of supplies could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Our ability to meet customers demands depends, in part, on our ability to obtain in a timely manner an adequate delivery of quality materials, parts, and components, as well as services and software from our suppliers. In addition, certain supplies are available only from a single source or limited sources and we may not be able to diversify sources in a timely manner. If demand for our products or services increases from our current expectations or if suppliers are unable to meet our demand for other reasons, including as a result of natural disasters or financial issues, we could experience an interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies that could have a negative impact on our business. We have experienced shortages in the past that have negatively impacted our results of operations and may experience such shortages in the future. Credit constraints at our suppliers could cause us to accelerate payment of accounts payable by us, impacting our cash flow. In addition, our current contracts with certain suppliers may be canceled or not extended by such suppliers and, therefore, not afford us with sufficient protection against a reduction or interruption in supplies. Moreover, in the event any of these suppliers breach their contracts with us, our legal remedies associated with such a breach may be insufficient to compensate us for any damages it may suffer. The unfavorable outcome of any pending or future litigation, arbitration, or administrative action could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. From time to time we are made a party to litigation, arbitration, or administrative actions. Our financial results and reputation could be negatively impacted by unfavorable outcomes to any pending or future litigation or administrative actions, including those related to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, or other anti-corruption laws. There can be no assurances as to the favorable outcome of any litigation or administrative proceedings. In addition, it can be very costly to defend litigation or administrative proceedings and these costs could negatively impact our financial results. It is important that we are able to obtain many different types of insurance, and if we are not able to obtain insurance or exhausts our coverage we may be forced to retain the risk. We have many types of insurance coverage and is also self-insured for some risks and obligations. While the cost and availability of most insurance is stable, there are still certain types and levels of insurance that remain difficult to obtain, such as professional liability insurance, which is expensive to obtain for the amount of coverage often requested by certain customers. As we grow our global solutions and services business, we are being asked to obtain higher amounts of professional liability insurance, which could result in higher costs to do business. Natural disasters and certain risks arising from securities claims, professional liability, and public liability are potential self-insured events that could negatively impact our financial results. In addition, while we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and we may be forced to bear substantial costs from an accident, incident, or claim. We are subject to a wide range of product regulatory and safety, consumer, worker safety, and environmental laws. Our operations and the products we manufacture and/or sell are subject to a wide range of product regulatory and safety, consumer, worker safety, and environmental laws and regulations. Compliance with such existing or future laws and regulations could subject us to future costs or liabilities, impact our production capabilities, constrict our ability to sell, expand or acquire facilities, restrict what products and services we can offer, and generally impact our financial performance. Some of these laws are environmental and relate to the use, disposal, remediation, emission and discharge of, and exposure to hazardous substances. These laws often impose liability and can require parties to fund remedial studies or actions regardless of fault. We continue to incur disposal costs and have ongoing remediation obligations. Environmental laws have tended to become more stringent over time and any new obligations under these laws could have a negative impact on our operations or financial performance. Laws focused on the energy efficiency of electronic products and accessories; recycling of both electronic products and packaging; reducing or eliminating certain hazardous substances in electronic products; and the transportation of batteries continue to expand significantly. Laws pertaining to accessibility features of electronic products, standardization of connectors and power supplies, the transportation of lithium-ion batteries, and other aspects are also proliferating. There are also demanding and rapidly changing laws around the globe related to issues such as product safety, radio interference, radio frequency radiation exposure, medical related functionality, and consumer and social mandates pertaining to use of wireless or electronic equipment. These laws, and changes to these laws, could have a substantial impact on whether we can offer certain products, solutions, and services, and on what capabilities and characteristics our products or services can or must include. 17 Table of Contents These laws impact our products and negatively affect our ability to manufacture and sell products competitively. We expect these trends to continue. In addition, we anticipate that it will see increased demand to meet voluntary criteria related to reduction or elimination of certain constituents from products, increasing energy efficiency, and providing additional accessibility. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to document and test our internal controls over financial reporting and to report on our assessment as to the effectiveness of these controls. Any negative reports concerning our internal controls could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. We may discover areas of our internal controls that need improvement, particularly with respect to areas of our business impacted by the integration of our business processes, systems, and facilities. We cannot be certain that any remedial measures we take will ensure appropriate implementation and maintenance of adequate internal controls over the financial reporting processes and reporting in the future. We may incur significant additional costs in order to ensure we adequately remediate any weaknesses identified in our internal control environment, which, in turn, would reduce our earnings. Implementing any remedial measures may be complicated by the limited timeframe in which to implement such measures, the possibility that implementation of such measures may require a substantial amount of work and time by our personnel, and the challenge of migrating to a new ERP while implementing such remedial measures. In addition, development of an integrated financial reporting system with the accompanying system of internal controls to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 may increase the time and costs necessary to complete the integration of Enterprise or cause us to miss our reporting obligations. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report regarding the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. Failure to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the SEC, or other regulatory authorities. In addition, failure to comply with our reporting obligations with the SEC may cause an event of default to occur under the Debt Agreements, or similar instruments governing any debt we or our subsidiaries incur in the future. We could be adversely impacted by changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters. Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our businesses, including, but not limited to, revenue recognition, asset impairment, impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, inventories, customer rebates and other customer consideration, tax matters, and litigation and other contingent liabilities are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates, or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition. New accounting guidance may also require systems and other changes that could increase our operating costs and/or change our financial statements. For example, implementing future accounting guidance related to revenue, accounting for leases and other areas could require us to make significant changes to our accounting systems, impact to existing Credit Agreements and could result in adverse changes to our financial statements. Risks Related to the Acquisition and Integration of Enterprise We may be unable to effectively integrate Enterprise into our existing business. The integration of Enterprise into our operations is a significant undertaking and requires significant attention from our management. The Acquisition, with an approximate enterprise value of $3.45 billion, is significantly larger than prior acquisitions we have completed and significantly increased the size of our operations, increased our number of employees and operating facilities and expanded our geographic scope. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate Enterprise, or if such integration is successfully accomplished, that such integration will not be costlier than currently contemplated. There can also be no assurance that we can successfully manage the combined business due to our greatly increased size and scope. If we cannot successfully integrate and manage Enterprise within a reasonable time following the Acquisition, we may not be able to realize the potential and anticipated benefits of the Acquisition, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and growth prospects. We may be unable to realize the expected growth opportunities and cost savings from the Acquisition. In connection with the integration of Enterprise into our existing operating structure, we seek to realize growth opportunities, along with cost savings. The anticipated cost savings are based upon assumptions about our ability to implement integration measures in a timely fashion and within certain cost parameters. Our ability to achieve the planned cost synergies relies upon a number of factors, some of which may be beyond our control. For example, we may be unable to eliminate duplicative costs in a timely fashion or at all. Our inability to realize anticipated cost savings, and revenue enhancements from the Acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and growth prospects. 18 Table of Contents We continue to rely on MSI to perform certain critical transition services and there can be no assurance that those services will be performed timely and effectively or that we can replace those services prior to the expiration of the transition services agreement or successfully develop our own operations going forward. Under the terms of the transition services agreement that we entered into with MSI in connection with the Acquisition, MSI provided and continues to provide us with services critical for the operation and continuity of our operation of Enterprise. We have transitioned some of these critical functions, and are in the process of transitioning other critical functions, which primarily include information technology systems. Until we transition all such functions, we will continue to rely on MSI for those services. There can be no assurances that these remaining services will be performed timely and effectively or that we will be able to successfully or timely transition remaining functions and assume responsibility over them. Significant disruption in these transition services, or unanticipated costs related to these services, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, if we are unable to transition such remaining services to ourselves in a timely fashion or without disruption to our operations, we could experience an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and cash flows, and results of operations. As part of the integration, we are moving Enterprise off of our legacy ERP systems and implementing an ERP system under a single instance with our legacy business. The implementation process is complex and involves a number of risks that may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are currently replacing our multiple legacy business systems, including moving Enterprise off of our legacy systems that are being operated under a transition services agreement with MSI, with a new company-wide, integrated enterprise resource planning (ERP) system to handle various business, operating and financial processes for us. The integrated system will streamline a variety of important functions, such as order entry, invoicing, accounts receivable, accounts payable, financial consolidation, logistics, and internal and external financial and management reporting matters. We moved our operations in Asia Pacific to the combined ERP in May 2016 and expect to move our operations in North America, Latin America and EMEA to the combined ERP before the end of fiscal year 2017. ERP implementations are complex and time-consuming projects that involve substantial expenditures on system hardware and software and implementation activities that often continue for several years. Such an integrated, wide-scale implementation is extremely complex and requires transformation of business and financial processes in order to reap the benefits of the ERP system. Significant efforts are needed for requirements identification, functional design, process documentation, data conversion, user training and post implementation support. Problems in any of these areas could result in operational issues including delayed shipments or production, missed sales, billing and accounting errors and other operational issues. System delays or malfunctioning could also disrupt our ability to timely and accurately process and report key components of the results of our consolidated operations, our financial position and cash flows, which could impact our ability to timely complete important business processes such as the evaluation of our internal controls and attestation activities pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. After the Company transitions Enterprise off of our legacy ERP system, data contained on that legacy ERP system may be difficult and costly to access. We have a substantial amount of goodwill and other intangible assets, which could, in the future, become impaired and result in material non-cash charges to our results of operations. As of December 31, 2016 , we had $2.9 billion of goodwill and other intangible assets, a significant increase since prior to the Acquisition of Enterprise. At least annually, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment in the carrying value as defined by U.S. GAAP, we will evaluate this goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment by first assessing qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying amount. Estimated fair values could change if, for example, there are changes in the business climate, unanticipated changes in the competitive environment, declines in the financial condition of a reporting unit, adverse legal or regulatory actions or developments, changes in capital structure, cost of debt, interest rates, capital expenditure levels, operating cash flows, or market capitalization. Because of the significance of our goodwill and intangible assets, any future impairment of these assets could require material non-cash charges to our results of operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles of $62 million was recorded during the third quarter related to the wireless LAN business divestiture. Risks Related to our Indebtedness In connection with the Acquisition, we incurred substantial debt obligations . Our total outstanding debt for borrowed money was approximately $3.25 billion on October 27, 2014. At December 31, 2016, the remaining principal amount of indebtedness was $ 2.7 billion , gross of unamortized discounts and debt issuance costs. In addition, subject to restrictions in agreements governing our existing and future indebtedness, we may incur additional indebtedness. Our substantial level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: We may experience difficulty in satisfying our obligations with respect to our existing indebtedness or future indebtedness; Our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired; 19 Table of Contents We plan to use a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on our indebtedness, which may reduce the funds available to ourselves for other purposes, such as acquisitions and capital expenditures; We may be at a competitive disadvantage with reduced flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changing conditions in the industry, including increased competition; and We may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in the business. We expect to fund our expenses and to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness from cash flow from operations. Our ability to meet our expenses and to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness when due depends on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions in the markets where we operate and pressure from competitors. Additionally, we have not previously undertaken substantial amounts of indebtedness. Historically, we operated our business without incurring significant indebtedness for borrowed money and has limited experience operating our business subject to the constraints imposed by debt agreements. Despite our indebtedness, we may need to incur substantially more indebtedness and take other actions that could further exacerbate the risk associated with our existing indebtedness . At December 31, 2016 , the remaining principal amount of indebtedness was $ 2.7 billion . In addition to the financing activities, we may need to incur substantially more indebtedness in the future, resulting in higher leverage. Subject to the limits contained in our Debt Agreements, we may incur additional indebtedness from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. To the extent we incur additional indebtedness, the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness will be exacerbated. Our use of derivative financial instruments to reduce interest rate risk may result in added volatility in our quarterly operating results . We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. However, we do utilize derivative financial instruments to reduce interest rate risk associated with our indebtedness. To manage variable interest rate risk, we entered into forward interest rate swap agreements, which will effectively convert a portion of our indebtedness into a fixed rate loan. Under generally accepted accounting principles, the fair values of the swap contracts, which will either be amounts receivable from or payable to counterparties, are reflected as either assets or liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We record our fair value change in our Consolidated Statements of Earnings, as a component of Other, net if not hedged. The associated impact on our quarterly operating results is directly related to changes in prevailing interest rates. If interest rates increase, we would have a non-cash gain on the swaps, and vice versa in the event of a decrease in interest rates. Consequently, these swap contracts introduce complexity to our operating results. Restrictive covenants in the Debt Agreements may limit our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to pursue our business strategies. The Debt Agreements contain, and instruments governing any future indebtedness may contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions, including restrictions on our ability to take actions that we believe may be in our interest. We expect these covenants will limit our ability to: incur additional indebtedness or guarantees; pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem our stock or prepay or redeem certain indebtedness; sell or dispose of assets and issue capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; incur liens or enter into sale-leaseback transactions; enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries ability to pay dividends; enter into transactions with affiliates; engage in new lines of business; consolidate, merge or enter into other fundamental changes; make loans, investments and/or acquisitions; and enter into amendments or modifications of certain material subordinated debt agreements or organizational documents. Additionally, the Term Loan entered into to fund a portion of the Acquisition requires us to maintain in certain circumstances compliance with a consolidated total secured net leverage ratio. Our ability to comply with this ratio may be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet this ratio. The restrictions could adversely affect our ability to: finance operations; make needed capital expenditures; make strategic acquisitions or investments or enter into alliances; withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general; engage in business activities, including future opportunities, that may be in our interest; and plan for or react to market conditions or otherwise execute our business strategies. 20 Table of Contents A breach of any of the covenants contained in the Debt Agreements (including an inability to comply with the financial maintenance covenants) that is not remedied within the applicable cure period, if any, would result in an event of default under the Debt Agreements. If, when required, we are unable to repay or refinance our indebtedness or amend the covenants contained in the Debt Agreements, or if a default otherwise occurs that is not cured or waived, the lenders or holders of our debt securities could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable or institute foreclosure proceedings against those assets that secure the borrowings. Should the outstanding obligations be accelerated and become due and payable because of any failure to comply with the applicable covenants in the future, we would be required to search for alternative measures to finance current and ongoing obligations of our business. There can be no assurance that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Any of these scenarios could adversely impact our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. A significant amount of cash will be required to service our indebtedness . Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund working capital needs, general corporate expenditures and planned capital expenditures depends on our ability to generate a significant amount of cash. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, business, legislative, regulatory, and other factors that are beyond our control. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flows from operations or if future borrowings are not available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before the maturity thereof, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, we may not be able to effect any of these actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our ability to restructure or refinance our indebtedness will depend on the condition of the capital and debt markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict business operations. The terms of anticipated or future debt instruments may limit or prevent us from taking any of these actions. In addition, any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and/or principal on outstanding indebtedness would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to access additional capital on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations, or to refinance or restructure our obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would have an adverse effect, which could be material, on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as on our ability to satisfy the obligations in respect of our indebtedness. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 2. Properties Our corporate headquarters are located in Lincolnshire, Illinois; a northern suburb of Chicago. We also operate manufacturing, production and warehousing, administrative, research, and sales facilities in other U.S. and international locations. As of December 31, 2016, we owned 3 lab and warehouse facilities located in: Holtsville, NY; Preston, UK; and Mississauga, Ontario, Canada. The Company operates 8 facilities for the purposes of manufacturing, production, and warehousing, 5 of which are located in the United States and 3 are located in other countries. As of December 31, 2016, the Company leased 115 office facilities, 33 of which were located in the United States and 82 were located in other countries. We generally consider the productive capacity of the plants to be adequate and sufficient for our requirements. The extent of utilization of each manufacturing facility varies throughout the year. Item 3. Legal Proceedings See Note 11 Contingencies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 21 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Stock Information: Price Range and Common Stock Our Class A common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol ZBRA. The following table shows the high and low trade prices for each fiscal quarter in 2016 and 2015, as reported by the NASDAQ Stock Market. 2016 High Low 2015 High Low First Quarter $ 70.30 $ 52.14 First Quarter $ 92.48 $ 74.40 Second Quarter 68.49 48.51 Second Quarter 119.47 88.41 Third Quarter 71.61 46.13 Third Quarter 117.00 71.95 Fourth Quarter 88.00 62.91 Fourth Quarter 83.02 63.92 Source: The NASDAQ Stock Market At February 20, 2017, the last reported price for the Class A common stock was $85.99 per share, and there were 140 registered stockholders of record for Zebras Class A common stock. In addition, we had approximately 25,868 stockholders who owned our stock in street name. Dividend Policy Since our initial public offering in 1991, we have not declared any cash dividends or distributions on our capital stock. We currently do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Treasury Shares We did not purchase shares of Zebra Class A common stock during 2016 as part of the purchase plan program. In November 2011, our Board authorized the purchase of up to an additional 3,000,000 shares under the purchase plan program and the maximum number of shares that may yet be purchased under the program is 665,475. The November 2011 authorization does not have an expiration date. Stock Performance Graph This graph compares the cumulative annual change since December 31, 2011 , of the total stockholder return of Zebra Technologies Corporation Class A common stock with the cumulative return on the following published indices: (i) the RDG Technology Composite; and (ii) the NASDAQ Composite Market Index, during the same period. The comparison assumes that $100 was invested in each of the Companys Class A common stock, the stocks comprising the RDG Technology Composite and the stocks comprising the NASDAQ Composite Market Index on December 31, 2011. The comparison assumes that all dividends were reinvested at the end of the month in which they were paid. 22 Table of Contents 23 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data FIVE YEAR SUMMARY OF SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA (In millions, except shares and per share amounts) Year Ended December 31, Net (Loss)/Income (1) 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Net sales $ 3,574 $ 3,650 $ 1,671 $ 1,038 $ 996 Cost of sales 1,932 2,006 893 535 505 Gross profit 1,642 1,644 778 503 491 Acquisition and integration costs 125 145 127 5 3 Exit and restructuring costs 19 40 6 6 1 Other operating expenses 1,418 1,422 556 332 323 Total operating expenses 1,562 1,607 689 343 327 Operating income 80 37 89 160 164 (Loss) income from continuing operations before income taxes (129 ) (2) (180 ) (2) 17 (2) 164 164 (Loss) income from continuing operations, net of tax (137 ) (158 ) 32 134 122 Income from discontinued operations, net of tax (3) 1 Net (loss) income $ (137 ) $ (158 ) $ 32 $ 134 $ 123 Basic earnings per share: (Loss) income from continuing operations $ (2.65 ) $ (3.10 ) $ 0.64 $ 2.65 $ 2.36 Income from discontinued operations (3) 0.02 Net (loss) income $ (2.65 ) $ (3.10 ) $ 0.64 $ 2.65 $ 2.38 Diluted earnings per share: (Loss) income from continuing operations $ (2.65 ) $ (3.10 ) $ 0.63 $ 2.63 $ 2.35 Income from discontinued operations (3) 0.02 Net (loss) income $ (2.65 ) $ (3.10 ) $ 0.63 $ 2.63 $ 2.37 Weighted average shares outstanding Basic 51,579,112 50,996,297 50,789,173 50,692,942 51,566,468 Diluted 51,579,112 50,996,297 51,379,698 51,063,189 51,843,051 December 31, Balance Sheet (1) 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Cash and cash equivalents, investments and marketable securities $ 156 $ 192 $ 418 $ 416 $ 394 Working capital (4) 273 439 719 635 616 Total assets 4,632 5,040 5,539 1,120 968 Long-term liabilities 2,891 3,252 3,346 15 14 Stockholders equity 792 893 1,040 959 857 24 Table of Contents (1) Includes the Enterprise business from its date of acquisition, October 27, 2014. (2) 2016 includes interest expense of $193 million , accelerated loan discount amortization of $3 million due to debt refinancing, and a minimal impact from forward swaps. See Note 9 Long-Term Debt for further information on debt refinancing amendments. 2015 includes interest expense of $197 million and forward swaps gain of $4 million. 2014 includes interest expense of $57 million and forward swaps loss of $5 million. (3) Income from discontinued operations is related to a reversal of amounts previously reserved, which were part of the finalization of the accounting for the sale of Navis, LLC and Proveo AG during 2011. (4) Calculated as current assets minus current liabilities. 25 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview The Company is a global leader respected for innovative EAI solutions in the automatic information and data capture solutions industry. We design, manufacture, and sell a broad range of products that capture and move data, including: mobile computers; barcode scanners and imagers; RFID readers; specialty printers for barcode labeling and personal identification; RTLS; related accessories and supplies, such as self-adhesive labels and other consumables; and utilities and application software. We also provide a full range of services, including maintenance, technical support, repair, and managed services, including cloud-based subscriptions. End-users of our products and services include those in the retail, transportation and logistics, manufacturing, healthcare, hospitality, warehouse and distribution, energy and utilities, and education industries around the world. Benefits of our solutions include improved efficiency and workflow management, increased productivity and asset utilization, real-time, actionable enterprise information, and better customer experiences. We provide our products and services globally through a direct sales force and extensive network of partners. We provide products and services in over 170 countries, with approximately 120 facilities and 6,500 employees worldwide. In October 2014, Zebra acquired Enterprise from MSI, excluding its iDEN, or Integrated Digital Enhanced Network Business, for $3.45 billion in cash. Zebra financed the Acquisition through a combination of cash on hand and borrowings of $3.25 billion (the Indebtedness), including the sale of 7.25% senior notes due 2022 with an aggregate principal amount of $1.05 billion and a new credit agreement with various lenders that provided a term loan of $2.20 billion due 2021. The new credit agreement also included a $250 million revolving credit facility. See Note 3 Business Combinations and Divestitures for additional information. On September 13, 2016, the Company entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement with Extreme Networks, Inc. to divest of its wireless LAN (WLAN) business (Divestiture Group). WLAN operating results are reported in the Enterprise segment through the closing date of the WLAN divestiture of October 28, 2016. See Note 3 Business Combinations and Divestitures for additional information. Segments The Companys operations consist of two reportable segments: Legacy Zebra and Enterprise. Legacy Zebra The Legacy Zebra segment is an industry leader in barcode printing and asset tracking technologies. Its major product lines include barcode and card printers, location solutions, supplies, and services. Industries served include retail, transportation and logistics, manufacturing, healthcare, and other end markets within the following regions: North America; Europe, Middle East, and Africa; Asia-Pacific; and Latin America. Enterprise The Enterprise segment is an industry leader in automatic information and data capture solutions. Its major product lines include mobile computing, data capture, RFID, and services. Industries served include retail, transportation and logistics, manufacturing, healthcare, and other end markets within the following regions: North America; Europe, Middle East, and Africa; Asia-Pacific; and Latin America. Geographic Information. For the year ended December 31, 2016, the Company recorded $ 3.6 billion of net sales in its consolidated statements of operations, of which approximately 48.7% were attributable to North America; approximately 31.8% were attributable to Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA); and other foreign locations accounted for the remaining 19.5% . Net sales attributable from each region are relatively consistent with the prior year period. 26 Table of Contents Results of Operations: Year Ended 2016 versus 2015 and Year Ended 2015 versus 2014 Consolidated Results of Operations (Amounts in millions, except percentages) Year Ended December 31, Percent Change 2016 vs 2015 Percent Change 2015 vs 2014 2016 2015 2014 (1) Net sales $ 3,574 $ 3,650 $ 1,671 (2.1 )% 118.3 % Gross profit 1,642 1,644 778 (0.1 )% 111.3 % Operating expenses 1,562 1,607 689 (2.8 )% 133.1 % Operating income $ 80 $ 37 $ 89 116.2 % (58.4 )% Gross margin 45.9 % 45.0 % 46.6 % Net sales by product category were as follows (amounts in millions, except percentages): Year Ended December 31, Percent Change 2016 vs 2015 Percent Change 2015 vs 2014 2016 2015 2014 (1) Hardware $ 2,778 $ 2,863 $ 1,234 (3.0 )% 132.1 % Supplies 278 268 265 3.7 % 1.2 % Service and Software 518 519 172 (0.2 )% 201.7 % Total Net sales $ 3,574 $ 3,650 $ 1,671 Net sales to customers by geographic region were as follows (in millions, except percentages): Year Ended December 31, Percent Change 2016 vs 2015 Percent Change 2015 vs 2014 2016 2015 2014 (1) Europe, Middle East, and Africa $ 1,138 $ 1,194 $ 583 (4.7 )% 104.8 % Latin America 214 219 135 (2.3 )% 62.7 % Asia-Pacific 483 463 216 4.3 % 114.3 % Total International 1,835 1,876 934 (2.2 )% 100.9 % North America 1,739 1,774 737 (2.0 )% 140.7 % Total Net sales $ 3,574 $ 3,650 $ 1,671 Operating expenses are summarized below (in millions, except percentages): Year Ended December 31, Percent Change 2016 vs 2015 Percent Change 2015 vs 2014 2016 2015 2014 (1) Selling and marketing $ 444 $ 494 $ 213 (10.1 )% 131.6 % Research and development 376 394 151 (4.6 )% 160.7 % General and administrative 307 283 138 8.5 % 104.8 % Amortization of intangible assets 229 251 54 (8.8 )% 364.0 % Acquisition and integration costs 125 145 127 (13.8 )% 14.4 % Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles 62 NMF % Exit and restructuring costs 19 40 6 (52.5 )% 565.9 % Total Operating expenses $ 1,562 $ 1,607 $ 689 (2.8 )% 133.2 % 27 Table of Contents The Companys non-operating income and expense items are summarized in the following tables (in millions, except percentages): Year Ended December 31, Percent Change 2016 vs 2015 Percent Change 2015 vs 2014 2016 2015 2014 (1) Foreign exchange loss $ (5 ) $ (23 ) $ (9 ) (78.3 )% 162.6 % Interest expense (193 ) (193 ) (62 ) % 211.3 % Other, net (11 ) (1 ) (1 ) 1,000.0 % % Total Other (expenses) income $ (209 ) $ (217 ) $ (72 ) (3.7 )% 201.6 % (1) The businesses included in our Enterprise segment were acquired as part of the Acquisition. The consolidated results for the year ended December 31, 2014 include only two months (November and December 2014) of the Enterprise segment. The increase in net sales, gross profit, operating expenses and operating income, for the year ended December 31, 2014 was primarily related to the Acquisition. 2016 compared to 2015 Net sales decreased by $76 million or 2.1% compared with the prior year period. The decline in net sales is due to lower hardware sales in North America, EMEA, and Latin America, including the unfavorable impact of foreign currency changes, partially offset by higher hardware sales in Asia-Pacific. The decline in hardware sales is largely attributable to lower sales of barcode printer, data capture, wireless LAN products, and location solutions. On a constant currency basis and excluding purchase accounting adjustments, overall net sales declined approximately 1% compared to the prior year period, reflecting growth of approximately 4% in Asia-Pacific, offset by declines of approximately 2%, 1%, and 3% in North America, EMEA, and Latin America, respectively. Gross margin as a percent of sales was 45.9% compared to the prior year period of 45.0% . This improvement in gross margin reflects an increase in the Enterprise segment gross margin primarily due to lower services and hardware product costs. Legacy Zebra segment gross margin decreased primarily due to lower sales demand and the impact of incentive programs, including the concessions to distributors of printer products imported into China, partially offset by product cost improvements. Operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, were $ 1.6 billion , or 43.7% and 44.0% of net sales, respectively. The reduction in operating expenses as a percentage of net sales reflects the Companys continued focus on improving operating efficiency and controlling expenses. Selling and marketing expenses were lower compared to the prior year due to the full-year impact of staff reductions implemented in 2015 and lower discretionary expenses and promotional spending. The decrease in research and development costs was primarily due to a reduction in headcount and other third-party resources, the impact from the divestiture of the wireless LAN business, and shifting of headcount to lower cost engineering locations. The increase in general and administrative costs was primarily due to higher IT related expenses, including increased support and maintenance costs for IT infrastructure and business systems as we exit transition services agreements with Motorola Solutions, and increased legal fees and litigation related expenses. The decrease in amortization of intangibles was due to impairment charges taken in the current year along with other intangible assets becoming fully amortized. Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles of $62 million was recorded during the third quarter related to the wireless LAN business divestiture. The Company has made significant progress on its integration activities associated with the Acquisition, including exiting many transition services agreements with Motorola Solutions. This has resulted in a decline in acquisition and integration costs compared to the prior year period. Exit and restructuring costs were lower due to a reduced level of restructuring activity as the Company progresses with its restructuring plan related to the Acquisition, partially offset by expenses associated with the Companys divestiture of its wireless LAN business. Operating income increased $ 43 million or 116.2% compared to the prior year. The increase was primarily due to the decline in operating expenses. The Company conducts business in multiple currencies throughout the world, thus has exposure to movements in foreign exchange rates with regard to non-functional denominated revenue, cash assets, and cash liabilities. As a result of these exposures, the Company recognized a foreign exchange loss of $5 million for 2016. Interest expense was $ 193 million for the year ended December 31, 2016, flat compared to the prior year. Early repayments of debt resulted in accelerated amortization costs while debt refinancing savings were offset by closing costs of the refinancing. 28 Table of Contents Other non-operating expenses increased $10 million to $11 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. This increase is driven by long-term investment impairments of $7 million and an increase in accelerated loan discount amortization of $3 million due to the debt refinancing. See Note 9 Long-Term Debt for further information on the debt refinancing amendments. In the period ending December 31, 2016, the Company recognized tax expense of $ 8 million compared to a tax benefit of $ 22 million for 2015. The Companys effective tax rates were (6.2)% and 12.2% as of December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively. The Companys effective tax rate was lower than the federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to deferred income taxed on the outbound transfer of U.S. assets, pre-tax losses in the United States, and the rate differential between U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. 2015 compared to 2014 Net sales growth of 118.3% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2015 as compared to the prior year was primarily as a result of the Acquisition of the Enterprise business and higher North America sales, offset partially by $149 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects, net of hedges. The Enterprise business contributed $1,888 million or 95.4% of the increase in total net sales, increased gross profit by $808 million or 93.4%, and increased recurring operating expenses by $830 million or 95.9%, and non-recurring operating expenses by $42 million or 81.3%. Included within the total recurring operating expenses was an increase of $197 million of amortization expense as a result of intangibles acquired. Within non-recurring operating expenses were increases of $18 million of integration and acquisition costs as a result of IT costs of transitioning and exiting the Motorola platforms and $34 million of exit and restructuring costs as a result of integrating acquired facilities and related employees. Included in the total Enterprise impacts of 2015 versus 2014 are the following purchase accounting adjustments: a $10 million reduction in revenue related to the valuation of service contracts acquired, a $25 million decrease to cost of sales related to a step up in value of inventory acquired, and a $167 million increase in depreciation and amortization expenses. Net sales, excluding the impact of the Acquisition of the Enterprise business, increased by $91 million or 7.7% in 2015 versus 2014. The unfavorable impact of foreign currency reduced sales by $70 million. This increase is primarily due to sales growth in the North America and Asia-Pacific regions, specifically higher volumes of barcode printers and location solutions. Latin America sales were lower driven by a weak macro-economic environment. Consolidated net sales, excluding the effect of the Enterprise business, grew 12.5%, on a constant currency basis. Gross margin as a percent of sales, excluding the effect of the Enterprise business, was 50.9% for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to 50.0% in the comparable year ended December 31, 2014. This increase in margins reflects the favorable impact of higher unit sales within the North America and Asia-Pacific regions and lower product costs for both hardware and supplies, offset partially by unfavorable foreign currency effects, net of hedges. Operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2015, excluding the effect of the Enterprise business, were $415 million compared to $370 million in the prior year. Included in the increase were exit and restructuring costs within Legacy Zebra of $10 million related to organizational redesign. As a percentage of sales, operating expenses, excluding the Enterprise business, were 32.3% for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to 31.0% for the year ended December 31, 2014 primarily due to additional investments made to support business growth in the sales, research and development, and administrative functions, and exit and restructuring costs. Operating income for the year ended December 31, 2015, excluding the effect of the Enterprise business, increased $12 million or 5.2% compared to the prior year. The increase is primarily due to higher sales and gross profit, partially offset by higher operating expenses and the unfavorable foreign currency effects, net of hedges. The Company recognized a foreign exchange loss of $23 million for 2015 as a result of changes in the value of non-US dollar assets and liabilities primarily related to the Enterprise business that were not hedged during the period. Interest expense was $194 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to $63 million for 2014 mainly reflecting the indebtedness incurred related to the Acquisition of $3.2 billion borrowed in October of 2014. There was also $4 million of forward interest rate swap gains in 2015 included in interest expense compared to a $5 million loss in 2014 primarily due to the changes in market interest rates. In 2015, the Company recognized a tax benefit of $22 million compared to a tax benefit of $15 million for 2014. The Companys effective tax rates were 12.2% and (95.0)% as of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively. The Companys effective tax rate was lower than the federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to pre-tax losses in the United States and corporate structure realignment initiatives in various non-US jurisdictions. 29 Table of Contents Since the date of the Acquisition, as part of its corporate initiatives of integrating the Enterprise business, the Company has been executing its integration plan for the Enterprise business (the Integration Plan). The Company anticipates completing the Integration Plan as soon as practicable and expects that the Integration Plan will allow the combined businesses to achieve further synergies and cost savings associated with the Acquisition. As part of the Integration Plan, the Company began realigning certain acquired assets of the Enterprise business with and into the Companys corporate structure and business model. Results of Operations by Segment The following commentary should be read in conjunction with the financial results of each operating business segment as detailed in Note 16 Segment Information and Geographic Data in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K. The segment results exclude purchase accounting adjustments, amortization of intangible assets, acquisition and integration costs, impairment of goodwill and intangibles, and exit and restructuring costs. Legacy Zebra Segment (amounts in millions, except percentages) Year Ended December 31, Percent Change 2016 vs 2015 Percent Change 2015 vs 2014 2016 2015 2014 Net sales $ 1,247 $ 1,286 $ 1,195 (3.0 )% 7.7 % Gross profit 620 654 598 (5.2 )% 9.4 % Operating expenses 380 396 360 (3.9 )% 10.0 % Operating income $ 240 $ 258 $ 238 (7.0 )% 8.4 % Gross margin 49.7 % 50.9 % 50.0 % 2016 compared to 2015 Net sales for the period ending December 31, 2016 within Legacy Zebra decreased $ 39 million or 3.0% compared to prior year period. The decline in net sales was primarily due to lower net sales of barcode printers and location solutions, and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency changes, most notably in EMEA which was partially offset by an increase in sales of supplies. The barcode printer sales decline was primarily due to lower sales in North America and EMEA. Legacy Zebra sales declined compared to the prior year period on a constant currency basis by approximately 1%. Gross margin as a percentage of sales was 49.7% compared to 50.9% for comparable prior year period. The decrease in gross margin included impacts from lower sales of barcode printers, the impact of incentive programs, including the concession to distributors of printer products imported into China, costs associated with the relocation of North American distribution operations, and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency changes. These factors were partially offset by manufacturing cost improvements in supplies and lower hardware product costs. Operating income declined 7.0% as a result of lower net sales and gross margin, partially offset by lower operating expenses. 2015 compared to 2014 Net sales for 2015 increased $91 million or 7.7% compared to 2014. Net sales growth compared to 2014 on a constant currency basis was $149 million or 12.5%. This reflects higher net sales for the North America and Asia-Pacific regions. Net sales in EMEA were essentially unchanged while Latin America net sales were lower. On a constant currency basis, net sales in EMEA increased 14% compared to 2014. The increase in net sales for the North America region was primarily due to higher volume of sales related to barcode printers and location solutions. The higher level of net sales for EMEA and Asia-Pacific regions reflected increased volumes of barcode printers. The decrease in net sales in the Latin America region was primarily driven by a weak macro-economic environment. Gross margin as a percentage of sales was 50.9% for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to 50.0% for 2014. This increase in margin reflects the favorable impact of higher unit sales and lower product costs for both hardware and supplies, offset partially by unfavorable foreign currency effects, net of hedges. Operating income for the year ended December 31, 2015, increased 8.4% as a result of higher sales and gross profit partially offset by increases in operating expenses and unfavorable foreign currency effects, net of hedges. Operating expenses increased compared to the prior year primarily to support business growth. 30 Table of Contents Enterprise Segment (amounts in millions, except percentages) Year Ended December 31, Percent Change 2016 vs 2015 Percent Change 2015 vs 2014 2016 2015 2014 (1) Net sales $ 2,337 $ 2,380 $ 482 (1.8 )% 393.6 % Gross profit 1,032 1,010 215 2.2 % 370.3 % Operating expenses 746 774 150 (3.6 )% 416.7 % Operating income $ 286 $ 236 $ 65 21.2 % 263.1 % Gross margin 44.2 % 42.4 % 44.5 % (1) The businesses included in our Enterprise segment were acquired as part of the Acquisition. The Enterprise segments results, including the increases in net sales, gross profit, operating expenses and operating income, for the year ended December 31, 2014 was primarily related to the Acquisition. Accordingly, the results for this segment for the year ended December 31, 2014 include only two months (November and December 2014). 2016 compared to 2015 Net sales for the period ending December 31, 2016 within Enterprise decreased $ 43 million or 1.8% compared to prior year period. The decline in net sales was primarily driven by lower sales of wireless LAN and data capture products and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency changes in EMEA, partially offset by higher sales of mobile computing products. The sales decline compared to the prior year period on a constant currency basis was approximately 1%. Gross profit margin for the year ended December 31, 2016 was 44.2% compared to 42.4% in the prior year period. The improvement in gross margin was due primarily to lower service and hardware product costs, including lower excess and obsolescence expense. The prior year costs also included higher product rebranding expenses. This improvement was partially offset by product mix and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency changes. Operating income increased 21.2% primarily as a result of improvement in gross margin and lower operating expenses, partially offset by lower sales. 2015 compared to 2014 On October 27, 2014, the Company acquired Enterprise, an industry leader in mobile computing and data capture technologies and services, therefore 2014 only includes results since the acquisition date and is not directly comparable to the full fiscal year 2015. For the year ended December 31, 2015, net sales for Enterprise were $2.4 billion compared to $482 million in 2014, which includes net sales only for the period following the Acquisition. Mobile computing, data capture, and repair services generated the majority of Enterprise net sales for the year in 2015 and 2014. The regions which accounted for the majority of 2015 and 2014 Enterprise net sales included North America and EMEA. Sales in the fourth quarter were $635 million, up 4.8% compared to the third quarter due to higher net sales in EMEA. Gross profit margin for the year ended December 31, 2015 was 42.4% compared to 44.5% in the prior year period. Gross margin of 44.5% in 2014 reflects only the period following the Acquisition on October 27, 2014. Gross margin in the fourth quarter was 42.4%, comparable to the third quarter of 2015, reflecting higher gross margin in services offset by unfavorable foreign currency effects. Enterprises operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2015 were $774 million and operating income was $236 million. Operating expenses in the fourth quarter were flat compared to third quarter; however, the fourth quarter was 30.8% of sales compared to 31.9% in the third quarter of 2015 due to the improved operating leverage. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Management prepared the consolidated financial statements of the Company under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These principles require the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments, and assumptions we used are reasonable based upon the information available at that time. Our estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts in our consolidated financial statements. See Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K. 31 Table of Contents Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K. Liquidity and Capital Resources The primary factors that influence our liquidity include, but are not limited to, the amount and timing of our revenues, cash collections from our customers, capital expenditures, repatriation of foreign cash and investments, and acquisitions of third-parties. Management believes that our existing capital resources and funds generated from operations are sufficient to meet anticipated capital requirements and service our indebtedness. The following table summarizes our cash flow activities for the years indicated (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Cash flow (used in) provided by: Operating activities $ 372 $ 110 $ 248 Investing activities (39 ) (148 ) (3,111 ) Financing activities (376 ) (149 ) 3,192 Effect of exchange rates on cash balances 7 (15 ) 2 Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents $ (36 ) $ (202 ) $ 331 The change in our cash and cash equivalents balance is reflective of the following: 2016 vs. 2015 Cash flows from operations increased $ 262 million during 2016 to $ 372 million . This improvement was driven by lower net losses of $ 21 million , which included significant non-cash drivers of a lower deferred income tax benefit of $98 million and asset impairment for goodwill, intangibles and other assets of $69 million, primarily related to the wireless LAN business divestiture. Additionally, the Company had improved working capital of $ 85 million during 2016. Working capital improvements consisted primarily of accounts payable increases due to the Company successfully renegotiating longer payment terms with vendors being partially offset by an increase in income tax cash outflows. Net cash used in investing activities during 2016 included capital expenditures of $ 77 million compared to $ 122 million in 2015. The decrease consisted primarily of a reduction in integration and real estate related capital expenditures. This was offset somewhat by the sale of the wireless LAN business resulting in net cash received of $39 million . Net cash used in financing activities during 2016 consisted primarily of early debt principal repayments of $382 million under the Term Loan compared to early debt principal repayments of $ 165 million in the comparable prior year period. Resulting from the debt refinancing amendments entered into during fiscal 2016, the Company recognized $102 million of proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt, offset by $102 million in payments of long-term debt within the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Additionally, proceeds received from the exercise of stock options and employee stock purchase plan purchases (ESPP) were $ 11 million this year compared to $ 17 million in 2015 reflecting decreased option exercises and stock purchase plan purchases. The taxes paid related to the net share settlement of equity awards were $ 8 million in 2016 compared to $ 13 million in 2015 reflecting decreased stock exercises. In connection with the Acquisition in October 2014, we incurred indebtedness totaling $3.25 billion. As of December 31, 2016, we had long-term debt, gross of unamortized discounts and debt issuance costs, totaling $ 2.7 billion . We did not have any borrowings against our revolving credit facility with $246 million available ($250 million less $4 million of outstanding letters of credit). See Note 9 Long-Term Debt for further details and under Financing activities below. 2015 vs. 2014 Cash flows from operations decreased $138 million during 2015 to $110 million. While an increase in net loss of $190 million netted against an increase in non-cash operating items of $161 million yielded a decrease in cash flow from operations of $29 million, the overall decrease in cash provided by operating activities is primarily attributable to changes in certain assets and liabilities of $109 million during 2015. These changes consisted primarily of a decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $252 million offset by a $72 million increase in accounts receivable and a $52 million increase in income taxes payable. 32 Table of Contents Net cash used in investing activities during 2015 included additional consideration of $51 million paid to MSI in relation to the opening cash balance and working capital adjustments. In addition, there were capital expenditures of $122 million in 2015 compared to $39 million in 2014. The increase in capital expenditures in 2015 as compared to 2014 consisted primarily of investments in IT infrastructure, software applications, facilities, engineering, development, test equipment, and production and tooling equipment. Reflecting the effect of the Acquisition on the Companys capital structure, net cash used for investing activities during 2014 included $3.4 billion paid to MSI and purchases of marketable securities of $651 million offset by $644 million and $336 million of proceeds from the sale and maturity of investments in marketable securities, respectively. Net cash used in financing activities during 2015 consisted primarily of principal repayments of $165 million under the Term Loan compared to proceeds of $3.2 billion from the issuance of long-term debt to fund the Acquisition during 2014. Additionally, proceeds received from the exercise of stock options and employee stock purchase plan purchases (ESPP) were $17 million this year compared to $26 million in 2014 reflecting decreased option exercises and ESPP purchases. The taxes paid related to the net share settlement of equity awards were $13 million in 2015 compared to $5 million in 2014 reflecting increased restricted stock exercises. The following table shows our level of indebtedness as of December 31, 2016 (in millions): Senior Notes $ 1,050 Term loan 1,653 Less: debt issuance costs (22 ) Less: unamortized discounts (33 ) Total outstanding debt $ 2,648 Private Offering On October 15, 2014, the Company completed a private offering of $1.05 billion in 7.25% Senior Notes due October 15, 2022. Interest on the Senior Notes is payable in cash on April 15 and October 15 of each year. The indenture covering the Senior Notes contains certain covenants limiting among other things the ability of the Company and its restricted subsidiaries, with certain exceptions as described in the indenture, to; (i) incur indebtedness or issue certain preferred stock; (ii) incur liens; (iii) pay dividends or make distributions in respect of capital stock; (iv) purchase or redeem capital stock; (v) make investments or certain other restricted payments; (vi) sell assets; (vii) issue or sell stock of restricted subsidiaries; (viii) enter into transactions with stockholders or affiliates; or (ix) effect a consolidation or merger. On December 31, 2016, the Company was in compliance with the covenants. Credit Facilities On October 27, 2014, the Company entered into a new credit agreement which provides for a term loan of $2.2 billion (Term Loan) and a revolving credit facility of $250 million (Revolving Credit Facility). On June 2, 2016, the Company entered into the first amendment to the credit agreement (the Refinancing Amendment 1). The Refinancing Amendment lowered the index rate spread for LIBOR loans from LIBOR + 400 bp to LIBOR + 325 bp. During the second quarter of 2016, the Company recorded a one-time $2.7 million expense, primarily related to costs incurred with third parties for arranger, legal and other services and the loss incurred on the extinguished debt. These expenses are reflected as non-operating expenses within the consolidated statement of operations. Additionally, the Company paid $4.9 million to the creditors in exchange for the modification and reported it as debt discount which is being amortizing over the life of the modified debt using the interest method. Borrowings under the modified Term Loan bear interest at a variable rate subject to a floor of 4.00%. On December 6, 2016, the Company entered into the second amendment to our existing credit agreement dated as of October 27, 2014 (the Refinancing Amendment 2). The Refinancing Amendment lowered the index rate spread for LIBOR loans from LIBOR + 325 bp to LIBOR + 250 bp. As a result of the December 6, 2016 refinancing transaction, the Company recorded a one-time $1.7 million expense, primarily related to costs incurred with third parties for arranger, legal and other services and the loss incurred on the modified debt. The Company had no costs due to creditors associated with fees for the modification. As of December 31, 2016, the Term Loan interest rate was 3.45%. Interest payments are payable quarterly. The Company has entered into interest rate swaps to manage interest rate risk on its long-term debt. See Note 8 Derivative Instruments for further details. The credit agreement requires the Company to prepay the Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facility, under certain circumstances or transactions defined in the credit agreement. Also, the Company may voluntarily prepay its obligations under the Term Loan at any time in whole or in part, without premium or penalty. The Company has made such optional principal prepayments of $382 million in 2016. Through February 2017, the Company made an additional optional principal prepayment 33 Table of Contents of $20 million. Unless satisfied by further optional prepayments, the Company is required to make a scheduled principal payment of $1.6 billion on October 27, 2021. The Revolving Credit Facility is available for working capital and other general corporate purposes including letters of credit. The amount (including letters of credit) shall not exceed $250 million. As of December 31, 2016, the Company had established letters of credit totaling $4 million, which reduced funds available for other borrowings under the agreement to $246 million. The Revolving Credit Facility will mature and the commitments thereunder will terminate on October 27, 2019. Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility bear interest at a variable rate plus an applicable margin. The applicable margin for borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility ranges from 2.25% to 2.75% depending on the Companys consolidated total secured net leverage ratio, which is evaluated on a quarterly basis. Interest payments are payable quarterly. As of December 31, 2016, the Company did not have any borrowings outstanding against the Revolving Credit Facility. The Revolving Credit Facility contains certain covenants limiting among other things, the ability of the Company and its restricted subsidiaries, with certain exceptions as described in the credit agreement, to: (i) incur indebtedness, make guarantees or issue certain equity securities; (ii) pay dividends on its capital stock or redeem, repurchase or retire its capital stock; (iii) make certain investments, loans and acquisitions; (iv) sell certain assets or issue capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; (v) create liens or engage in sale-leaseback transactions; (vi) merge, consolidate or transfer or dispose of substantially all of their assets; (vii) engage in certain transactions with affiliates; (viii) alter the business it conducts; (ix) amend, prepay, redeem or purchase subordinated debt; and (x) enter into agreements limiting subsidiary dividends and distributions. The Revolving Credit Facility also requires the Company to comply with a financial covenant consisting of a quarterly maximum consolidated Total Secured Net Leverage Ratio, (as defined in the credit agreement). This test is only required to be performed at the end of the fiscal quarter and when 20% of the commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility have been drawn and remain outstanding. The Term Loan and obligations under the Revolving Credit Facility are collateralized by a security interest in substantially all of the Companys assets as defined in the security agreement and guaranteed by its direct and indirect wholly-owned existing and future domestic restricted subsidiaries, subject to certain exceptions. Certain domestic subsidiaries of the Company (the Guarantor Subsidiaries) guarantee the Notes, the Term Loan and the Revolving Credit Facility on a senior basis: For the year ended December 31, 2016, the non-Guarantor Subsidiaries would have (a) accounted for 45% of our total revenue and (b) held 24% or $1 billion of our total assets and approximately 12% or $0.4 billion of our total liabilities including trade payables but excluding intercompany liabilities. On December 31, 2016, the Company was in compliance with all covenants. Historically, significant portions of our cash inflows were generated by our operations. We currently expect this trend to continue throughout 2017. We believe that our existing cash and investments, borrowings available under our Revolving Credit Facility, together with cash flows expected from operations will be sufficient to meet expected operating, capital expenditure and debt obligation requirements for the next 12 months. As of December 31, 2016, the Companys cash position of $ 156 million included foreign cash and investments of $98 million. Management believes that existing capital resources and funds generated from operations are sufficient to finance anticipated capital requirements. Contractual Obligations Zebras contractual obligations as of December 31, 2016 were (in millions): 34 Table of Contents Payments due by period Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years Operating lease obligations $ 140 $ 30 $ 46 $ 26 $ 38 Deferred compensation liability 11 11 Long-term debt principal payments 2,703 1,653 1,050 Interest payments 752 135 270 270 77 Interest on interest rate swaps 45 11 22 12 Purchase obligations 318 318 Total $ 3,969 $ 494 $ 338 $ 1,961 $ 1,176 Purchase obligations are for purchases made in the normal course of business to meet operational requirements, primarily raw materials and finished goods. Uncertain tax position liabilities of $42 million have been excluded from the above table as we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authority. The Company anticipates that it is reasonably possible that $5 million of unrecognized tax benefits may reverse in 2017, due to settlements with the tax authorities. The Company is currently undergoing audits of the 2013 through 2015 US federal income tax returns. The Company is engaged in an inquiry from the UK HM Revenue and Customs for the years 2012 and 2014. The tax years 2011 through 2016 remain open to examination by multiple foreign and U.S. state taxing jurisdictions. Due to uncertainties in any tax audit outcome, the Companys estimates of the ultimate settlement of uncertain tax positions may change and the actual tax benefits may differ significantly from the estimates. The Company continues to review these positions. 35 Table of Contents