Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview Zebra Technologies Corporation and its subsidiaries (Zebra or Company) is a global leader respected for innovative Enterprise Asset Intelligence (EAI) solutions in the automatic identification and data capture solutions industry. We design, manufacture, and sell a broad range of products that capture and move data, including: mobile computers; barcode scanners and imagers; radio frequency identification device (RFID) readers; specialty printers for barcode labeling and personal identification; real-time location systems; related accessories and supplies, such as self-adhesive labels and other consumables; and software utilities and applications. We also provide a full range of services, including maintenance, technical support, and repair, managed and professional services, including cloud-based subscriptions. End-users of our products and services include those in the retail and e-commerce, transportation and logistics, manufacturing, healthcare, hospitality, warehouse and distribution, energy and utilities, government and education enterprises around the world. Our customers have traditionally benefited from proven solutions that increase productivity and improve efficiency and asset utilization. The Company is poised to drive and capitalize on the evolution of the data capture industry into the broader EAI industry, based on important technology trends like the Internet of Things (IoT), ubiquitous mobility, automation and cloud computing. EAI solutions offer additional benefits to our customers including real-time, data-driven insights that improve operational visibility and drive workflow optimization. The Companys operations consist of two reportable segments: Asset Intelligence & Tracking (AIT) and Enterprise Visibility & Mobility (EVM). The AIT segment is an industry leader in barcode printing and asset tracking technologies. Its major product lines include barcode and card printers, supplies, services, location solutions, and retail solutions. Industries served include retail and e-commerce, transportation and logistics, manufacturing, healthcare, and other end markets within the following regions: North America; Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA); Asia-Pacific; and Latin America. The EVM segment is an industry leader in automatic information and data capture solutions. Its major product lines include mobile computing, data capture, RFID, and services. Industries served include retail and e-commerce, transportation and logistics, manufacturing, healthcare, and other end markets within the following regions: North America; EMEA; Asia-Pacific; and Latin America. Recent Developments Coronavirus Outbreak In December 2019, a strain of the coronavirus surfaced in Wuhan, China. During the latter part of the first quarter of 2020, the virus spread rapidly across nearly every region of the world and was declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization in March 2020. In response, there have been a broad number of governmental and commercial impacts, including business slowdowns or shutdowns and significant travel restrictions. These events have resulted in significant declines in both global economic activity and financial market valuations. Many of our supply chain partners in China, who temporarily suspended or modified their business operations beginning in January 2020, have since largely resumed operations. The spread of the virus has resulted in broad global business disruption, which impacted both our supply chain activities and customer demand. We serve a diverse mix of customers. Some of our customers have experienced significant declines or suspensions to their operations, whereas others have experienced increases in their business volume. The federal, state, and local governments as well as foreign governments have imposed several protocols and regulations restricting the physical movement of individuals in an effort to limit the spread of the coronavirus. We have implemented a number of measures in an effort to protect our employees health and well-being, including having office workers work remotely, suspending employee travel, and withdrawing from certain industry events. As a result of concerns over the pandemic, we have experienced higher than normal employee absentee rates for employees who are unable to work from home. Distribution centers and repair centers have remained open, at varying capacity levels, to ensure continued support to our customers, many of whom provide essential goods and services to communities. During the first quarter of 2020, Net sales were negatively impacted by the effects of the pandemic. We experienced supply chain disruptions including reduced access to products manufactured in China, restrictions on travel/transportation of goods 20 Table of Contents and the temporary closure of a key distribution center supplying the Americas. In addition, we experienced declines in customer demand primarily in our Asia-Pacific region (principally within China). During the first quarter, we considered the potential impacts of the coronavirus in qualitative impairment assessments of our long-lived assets, including goodwill and intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and right-of-use lease assets. We concluded that it is not more likely than not that any of our long-lived assets are impaired. Our analysis considered, among other factors: the nature of our products and services as well as our position within our industry; our highly variable cost structure; and the assumption that the impact of the virus will be temporary, and the Company will continue generating positive operating cash flows over the long-term. We also considered the adequacy of our capital resources, inclusive of available borrowing capacity on debt and other financing facilities; the results of our most recent quantitative goodwill impairment assessment, as disclosed in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019; and that our market capitalization as of the end of the first quarter still far exceeded total net assets. Finally, while we may experience an increase in working capital levels, we do not anticipate a material impact to the realizability of current assets, such as accounts receivable or inventories, at this time. The situation related to the coronavirus continues to be complex and rapidly evolving. There may be external developments, such as restrictions imposed by government authorities or guidance issued by public health authorities, that are beyond our control and may impact our operating plans. Parts of our business are experiencing operational disruption and customer demand impacts. We cannot reasonably estimate the duration of the pandemic or fully ascertain its impact to our 2020 operating results or cash flows. We currently expect that full year net sales, net income and cash flow will be lower than 2019 and we will take certain cost reduction actions to mitigate the impact to profitability and cash flow. Product Sourcing Diversification Initiative The Company commenced efforts in 2019 to diversify its product sourcing footprint to include sourcing products from Taiwan, Vietnam, and Malaysia, thereby reducing its reliance on Chinese-based manufacturing and the impacts of related customs duties (tariffs) on U.S imports from China. In conjunction with this initiative, the Company has incurred total one-time costs of $10 million , including $5 million during the first quarter of 2020, which are primarily reflected within Operating expenses on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company anticipates incurring additional one-time operating costs of up to $15 million , as well incremental equipment purchases of approximately $10 million , by the middle of fiscal year 2020. The operational disruption due to the coronavirus has lengthened our initial expectations, although we still expect to substantially complete these actions by the middle of fiscal year 2020. We expect these actions, along with certain U.S. pricing actions and based on improved economic and operating conditions, to substantially mitigate the ongoing financial impacts of Chinese tariffs. Restructuring Programs In the fourth quarter of 2019, the Company committed to certain organizational changes designed to generate operational efficiencies (collectively referred to as the 2019 Productivity Plan). The organizational design changes under the 2019 Productivity Plan will principally occur within the North America and EMEA regions, relate primarily to employee severance and related benefits, and are expected to be substantially completed in fiscal 2020. Exit and restructuring charges for the 2019 Productivity Plan were $4 million during the quarter ended March 28, 2020, and are $12 million cumulatively through the quarter ended March 28, 2020. Estimated remaining costs to be incurred in fiscal 2020 under the 2019 Productivity Plan are expected to be up to $6 million . See Note 6 , Exit and Restructuring Costs in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Results of Operations Consolidated Results of Operations (in millions, except percentages) The following tables present key statistics for the Companys operations for the three ended March 28, 2020 and March 30, 2019 , respectively: 21 Table of Contents Three Months Ended March 28, 2020 March 30, 2019 $ Change % Change Net sales $ 1,052 $ 1,066 $ (14 ) (1.3 )% Gross profit 473 501 (28 ) (5.6 )% Gross margin 45.0 % 47.0 % (200) bps Operating expenses 322 342 (20 ) (5.8 )% Operating income $ 151 $ 159 $ (8 ) (5.0 )% Net sales to customers by geographic region were as follows ( in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 28, 2020 March 30, 2019 $ Change % Change North America $ 519 $ 510 $ 9 1.8 % EMEA 388 376 12 3.2 % Asia-Pacific 97 125 (28 ) (22.4 )% Latin America 48 55 (7 ) (12.7 )% Total net sales $ 1,052 $ 1,066 $ (14 ) (1.3 )% Operating expenses are summarized below (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 28, 2020 March 30, 2019 As a % of Net sales 2020 2019 Selling and marketing $ 122 $ 122 11.6 % 11.4 % Research and development 105 111 10.0 % 10.4 % General and administrative 74 76 7.0 % 7.1 % Amortization of intangible assets 16 28 NM NM Acquisition and integration costs 1 4 NM NM Exit and restructuring costs 4 1 NM NM Total operating expenses $ 322 $ 342 30.6 % 32.1 % Consolidated Organic Net sales growth: Three Months Ended March 28, 2020 Reported GAAP Consolidated Net sales growth (1.3 )% Adjustments: Impact of foreign currency translation (1) 1.4 % Impact of acquisitions (2) (0.9 )% Consolidated Organic Net sales growth (0.8 )% Consolidated Organic Net sales growth is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Measures section at the end of this item. (1) Operating results reported in U.S. Dollars are affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Foreign currency translation impact represents the difference in results that are attributable to fluctuations in the currency exchange rates used to convert the results for businesses where the functional currency is not the U.S. 22 Table of Contents Dollar. This impact is calculated by translating the current period results at the currency exchange rates used in the comparable prior year period, inclusive of the Companys foreign currency hedging program. (2) For purposes of computing Organic Net sales growth, amounts directly attributable to business acquisitions are excluded for twelve months following their respective acquisition dates. First quarter 2020 compared to first quarter 2019 Net sales decreased $14 million or 1.3% compared with the prior year, reflecting declines in both of our Asia-Pacific and Latin America regions, partially offset by growth in our EMEA and North America regions. Excluding the effects of acquisitions and unfavorable foreign currency changes, the decrease in Consolidated Organic Net sales was 0.8% , primarily due to lower sales of mobile computing and data capture products, which were partially offset by higher sales of printing products and support services. As discussed above, global supply chain disruption and customer demand declines resulting from the coronavirus pandemic negatively impacted Net sales. The supply chain disruption impacts were most pronounced in our North American mobile computing business, while customer demand declines primarily impacted our Asia-Pacific region (principally within China). Gross margin decreased to 45.0% for the current quarter compared to 47.0% for the prior year. Gross margins were lower in both AIT and EVM reflecting the negative impacts of Chinese import tariffs, elevated freight costs associated with supply chain disruptions, and unfavorable business mix on tangible product sales. These declines were partially offset by productivity gains within our service and software offerings. Operating expenses for the quarter ended March 28, 2020 and March 30, 2019 , were $322 million and $342 million , or 30.6% and 32.1% of Net sales, respectively. As a percentage of Net sales, operating costs continue to trend favorably. The current year Operating expenses include lower intangible asset amortization expense as certain assets became fully amortized in late 2019, lower incentive-based compensation, and lower discretionary spending, partially offset by costs associated with the diversification of the Companys product sourcing footprint and the inclusion of operating expenses associated with business acquisitions. Operating income decreased 5.0% to $151 million for the current quarter compared to $159 million for the prior year. The decrease was due to lower Net sales and Gross profit, partially offset by the benefits of lower Operating expenses. Total Other expenses, net was $48 million for the current quarter compared to $28 million for the prior year. The current year interest expense benefited from lower outstanding debt levels, which was more than offset by a $35 million loss on interest rate swaps compared to an $8 million loss in the prior year. The Companys effective tax rates for the three months ended March 28, 2020 and March 30, 2019 were 13.6% and 12.2% , respectively. The increase in the effective tax rate compared to the prior year was primarily due to lower discrete tax benefits. Results of Operations by Segment The following commentary should be read in conjunction with the financial results of each operating business segment as detailed in Note 15 , Segment Information & Geographic Data in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. To the extent applicable, segment results exclude purchase accounting adjustments, amortization of intangible assets, acquisition and integration costs, impairment of goodwill and other intangibles, exit and restructuring costs, and product sourcing diversification costs. Asset Intelligence & Tracking Segment (AIT) (in millions, except percentages) 23 Table of Contents Three Months Ended March 28, 2020 March 30, 2019 $ Change % Change Net sales $ 371 $ 357 $ 14 3.9 % Gross profit 181 184 (3 ) (1.6 )% Gross margin 48.8 % 51.5 % (270) bps Operating expenses 92 92 % Operating income $ 89 $ 92 $ (3 ) (3.3 )% AIT Organic Net sales growth: Three Months Ended March 28, 2020 AIT Reported GAAP Net sales growth 3.9 % Adjustments: Impact of foreign currency translation (1) 1.2 % Impact of acquisition (2) (1.9 )% AIT Organic Net sales growth 3.2 % AIT Organic Net sales growth is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Measures section at the end of this item. (1) Operating results reported in U.S. Dollars are affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Foreign currency translation impact represents the difference in results that are attributable to fluctuations in the currency exchange rates used to convert the results for businesses where the functional currency is not the U.S. Dollar. This impact is calculated by translating the current period results at the currency exchange rates used in the comparable prior year period, inclusive of the Companys foreign currency hedging program. (2) For purposes of computing AIT Organic Net sales growth, amounts directly attributable to the acquisition of Temptime Corporation (Temptime) are excluded for twelve months following the February 21, 2019 acquisition date. First quarter 2020 compared to first quarter 2019 Net sales for AIT increased $14 million or 3.9% compared to the prior year, including the impacts of the Temptime acquisition and unfavorable currency changes. AIT Organic Net sales growth of 3.2% was primarily due to increases in printing products in the North America and EMEA regions. Gross margin decreased to 48.8% in the current period compared to 51.5% in the prior year, primarily due to the unfavorable impacts of Chinese import tariffs and elevated freight costs associated with supply chain disruptions. Operating income for the current quarter decreased 3.3% primarily due to lower Gross profit despite an increase in Net sales. Enterprise Visibility & Mobility Segment (EVM) (in millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended March 28, 2020 March 30, 2019 $ Change % Change Net sales $ 681 $ 709 $ (28 ) (3.9 )% Gross profit 293 318 (25 ) (7.9 )% Gross margin 43.0 % 44.9 % (190) bps Operating expenses 205 217 (12 ) (5.5 )% Operating income $ 88 $ 101 $ (13 ) (12.9 )% 24 Table of Contents EVM Organic Net sales growth: Three Months Ended March 28, 2020 EVM Reported GAAP Net sales growth (3.9 )% Adjustments: Impact of foreign currency translation (1) 1.5 % Impact of acquisitions (2) (0.5 )% EVM Organic Net sales growth (2.9 )% EVM Organic Net sales growth is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Measures section at the end of this item. (1) Operating results reported in U.S. Dollars are affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Foreign currency translation impact represents the difference in results that are attributable to fluctuations in the currency exchange rates used to convert the results for businesses where the functional currency is not the U.S. Dollar. This impact is calculated by translating the current period results at the currency exchange rates used in the comparable prior year period, inclusive of the Companys foreign currency hedging program. (2) For purposes of computing EVM Organic Net sales growth, amounts directly attributable to the acquisitions of Profitect, Inc. and Cortexica Vision Systems Limited are excluded for twelve months following their respective acquisition dates of May 31, 2019 and November 5, 2019. First quarter 2020 compared to first quarter 2019 Net sales for EVM decreased $28 million or 3.9% compared to prior year, including unfavorable foreign currency changes and the benefit of acquisitions. EVM Organic Net Sales decline of 2.9% was primarily due to lower sales of mobile computing products associated with coronavirus-induced supply chain disruption and customer demand declines, as well as lower sales of data capture products, which were partially offset by growth in support services. Gross margin decreased to 43.0% in the current period compared to 44.9% in the prior year, primarily due to unfavorable business mix and Chinese import tariffs, as well as elevated freight costs associated with supply chain disruptions. Operating income for the current quarter decreased 12.9% primarily due to lower Net sales and Gross profit, which were partially offset by the benefits of lower Operating expenses. New Accounting Pronouncements On January 1, 2020, the Company adopted Accounting Standards Update 2016-13, Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326) - Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments , which did not have a significant impact to the Companys consolidated financial statements. See Note 2 , Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information related to the Companys adoption of this new accounting pronouncement. Liquidity and Capital Resources The primary factors that influence our liquidity include the amount and timing of our revenues, cash collections from our customers, cash payments to our suppliers, capital expenditures, repatriation of foreign cash and investments, acquisitions, and share repurchases. While the effects of the coronavirus pandemic are expected to have a negative impact on operating cash flows, total year operating cash flows are still expected to remain positive based on managements current business plans and operational expectations. Management believes that our existing capital resources, inclusive of available borrowing capacity on debt and other financing facilities and funds generated from operations, are sufficient to meet anticipated capital requirements and service our indebtedness. The following table summarizes our cash flow activities for the periods indicated (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended Cash flows provided by (used in) from: March 28, 2020 March 30, 2019 $ Change % Change Operating activities $ 108 $ 42 $ 66 157.1 % Investing activities (15 ) (184 ) 169 NM Financing activities (98 ) 161 (259 ) NM Effect of exchange rates on cash (1 ) (2 ) 1 NM Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents $ (6 ) $ 17 $ (23 ) NM The change in our cash and cash equivalents balance during the three months ended March 28, 2020 compared to the prior year period is reflective of the following: 25 Table of Contents Cash flow provided by operating activities increased by $66 million compared to the prior year period. The increase was primarily due to the favorable timing of collections on accounts receivables, partially offset by lower net income. The decrease in net cash used in investing activities was primarily due to the Companys acquisition of Temptime during the first quarter of 2019. The increase in net cash used in financing activities during the current period was primarily due to $200 million of common stock repurchases in the current year, unfavorable timing of unremitted cash collections from servicing of factored receivables, and lower proceeds from borrowings as compared to the prior year. Company Debt The following table shows the carrying value of the Companys debt (in millions): March 28, 2020 December 31, 2019 Term Loan A $ 917 $ 917 Revolving Credit Facility 258 103 Receivables Financing Facilities 230 266 Total debt $ 1,405 $ 1,286 Less: Debt issuance costs (5 ) (6 ) Less: Unamortized discounts (3 ) (3 ) Less: Current portion of debt (230 ) (197 ) Total long-term debt $ 1,167 $ 1,080 Credit Facilities The Companys debt includes borrowings under Term Loan A and a multi-currency Revolving Credit Facility, both maturing in August 2024. Borrowings under the facilities bear interest at a variable rate plus an applicable margin, for which the Company has entered into interest rate swap contracts to manage interest rate risk exposure. All borrowings under the credit facilities as of March 28, 2020 were denominated in U.S. Dollars, except for 92 million in Euro-denominated borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility. The average interest rates as of March 28, 2020 for Term Loan A and the Revolving Credit Facility were 2.27% and 1.83% , respectively. Interest is paid for each instrument on a monthly basis. The Company is required to prepay certain amounts in the event of certain circumstances or transactions. Also, the Company may make prepayments against Term Loan A, in whole or in part, without premium or penalty. See Note 9 , Long-Term Debt in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to the Companys credit facilities. Receivables Financing Facilities The Company also has two Receivables Financing Facilities with financial institutions carrying total borrowing limits of up to $280 million . As collateral, the Company pledges perfected first-priority security interests in its U.S. domestically originated accounts receivable. The Company has accounted for transactions under its Receivables Financing Facilities as secured borrowings. As of March 28, 2020 , $507 million of receivables were pledged as collateral, of which $230 million was borrowed against. The average interest rate associated with these borrowings as of March 28, 2020 was 1.85% . Interest is paid on these borrowings on a monthly basis. The first Receivables Financing Facility, which was originally entered into in December 2017 and was amended in May 2019, allows for borrowings of up to $180 million and will mature on March 29, 2021 . The second Receivable Financing Facility, which was entered into in May 2019, allows for borrowings of up to $100 million and will mature on May 18, 2020 . Both the Revolving Credit Facility and Receivables Financing Facilities include terms and conditions that limit the incurrence of additional borrowings and require that certain financial ratios be maintained at designated levels. See Note 9 , Long-Term Debt in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to the Companys Receivables Financing Facilities. Receivables Factoring In addition to the Companys borrowing arrangements described above, the Company has entered into Receivables Factoring arrangements. Under the Receivables Factoring arrangements, the Company sells certain receivables originated from the EMEA region to banks in exchange for cash, without maintaining a beneficial interest in the receivables sold. At any time, the 26 Table of Contents banks purchase of eligible receivables is subject to a maximum of uncollected receivables. Transactions under the Receivables Factoring arrangements are accounted for as sales under Accounting Standards Codification Topic 860, Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets with related cash flows reflected in Net cash provided by operating activities on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. The Companys Receivable Factoring arrangements allow for the factoring of up to $125 million of uncollected receivables originated. As of March 28, 2020 and December 31, 2019 there were a total of $80 million and $60 million , respectively, of uncollected receivables that had been sold and removed from the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets. See Note 14 , Accounts Receivable Factoring in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. Share Repurchases On July 30, 2019, the Company announced that its Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program for up to an aggregate amount of $1 billion of its outstanding shares of common stock. The share repurchase program supersedes the Companys prior share repurchase program, which was authorized in November 2011, and does not have a stated expiration date. The level of the Companys repurchases depends on a number of factors, including its financial condition, capital requirements, cash flows, results of operations, future business prospects and other factors its management may deem relevant. The timing, volume and nature of repurchases are subject to market conditions, applicable securities laws and other factors and may be amended, suspended or discontinued at any time. Repurchases may be effected from time to time through open market purchases, including pursuant to a pre-set trading plan meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5-1(c) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. During the three months ended March 28, 2020 , the Company repurchased 948,740 shares of common stock for $200 million under this program, reducing the remaining amount of share repurchases authorized under the plan to $753 million . Significant Customers The Net sales to significant customers as a percentage of the Companys total Net sales, by segment, were as follows: Three Months Ended March 28, 2020 March 30, 2019 AIT EVM Total AIT EVM Total Customer A 5.9 % 12.5 % 18.4 % 5.3 % 12.3 % 17.6 % Customer B 6.7 % 10.6 % 17.3 % 5.1 % 9.8 % 14.9 % Customer C 6.5 % 13.1 % 19.6 % 6.7 % 8.0 % 14.7 % These customers accounted for 18.8% , 11.6% , and 21.7% of outstanding accounts receivable, respectively, as of March 28, 2020 . No other customer accounted for more than 10% of total Net sales during these periods, or more than 10% of total outstanding accounts receivables as of March 28, 2020 . All three of the above customers are distributors of the Companys products and not end users. Safe Harbor Forward-looking statements contained in this filing are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are highly dependent upon a variety of important factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. When used in this document and documents referenced, the words anticipate, believe, intend, estimate, will, and expect and similar expressions as they relate to the Company or its management are intended to identify such forward-looking statements but are not the exclusive means of identifying these statements. The forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the Companys financial outlook for the full year of 2020 . These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions, and are subject to the risks and uncertainties inherent in the Companys industry, market conditions, general domestic and international economic conditions, and other factors. These factors include: Market acceptance of the Companys products and solution offerings and competitors offerings and the potential effects of technological changes, The effect of global market conditions, including North America; EMEA; Latin America; and Asia-Pacific regions in which we do business, The impact of foreign exchange rates due to the large percentage of our sales and operations being outside the U.S., 27 Table of Contents Our ability to control manufacturing and operating costs, Risks related to the manufacturing of the Companys products and conducting business operations in non-U.S. countries, including the risk of depending on key suppliers who are also in non-U.S. countries, The Companys ability to purchase sufficient materials, parts, and components to meet customer demand, particularly in light of global economic conditions, The availability of credit and the volatility of capital markets, which may affect our suppliers, customers, and ourselves, Success of integrating acquisitions, Interest rate and financial market conditions, Access to cash and cash equivalents held outside the U.S., The effect of natural disasters, man-made disasters, public health issues (including pandemics), and cybersecurity incidents on our business, The impact of changes in foreign and domestic governmental policies, laws, or regulations, The outcome of litigation in which the Company may be involved, particularly litigation or claims related to infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, and The outcome of any future tax matters or tax law changes. We encourage readers of this report to review Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors in this report for further discussion of issues that could affect the Companys future results. We undertake no obligation, other than as may be required by law, to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, changed circumstances, or any other reason after the date of this report. Non-GAAP Measures The Company has provided reconciliations of the supplemental non-GAAP financial measures, as defined under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, presented herein to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. These supplemental non-GAAP financial measures Consolidated Organic Net sales growth, AIT Organic Net sales growth, and EVM Organic Net sales growth are presented because our management evaluates our financial results both including and excluding the effects of business acquisitions and foreign currency translation, as applicable. Management believes that the supplemental non-GAAP financial measures presented provide additional perspective and insights when analyzing the core operating performance of our business from period to period and trends in our historical operating results. These supplemental non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered superior to, as a substitute for, or as an alternative to, and should be considered in conjunction with the GAAP financial measures presented.