Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, because they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and growth prospects. These risks are not the only risks we face. Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial. No priority or significance is intended by, nor should be attached to, the order in which the risk factors appear. General Business and Industry Risks The Company is vulnerable to the potential difficulties associated with the increase in the complexity of our business . We have grown rapidly over the last several years through acquisition and worldwide growth. This growth has caused increased complexities in the business. We believe our future success depends in part on our ability to manage our growth and increased complexities of our business. The following factors could present difficulties to us: Managing our distribution channel partners; Managing our contract manufacturing and supply chain; Manufacturing an increased number of products; Developing and managing custom solutions offerings; Managing parties to whom we have outsourced portions of our business operations; Managing administrative and operational burdens; Managing stakeholder interests including customer, investor and employee social responsibility matters; Maintaining and improving information technology infrastructure to support growth; Managing the integration of acquisitions; Managing logistical problems common to complex, expansive operations; Managing our international operations; and Attracting, developing and retaining individuals with the requisite technical expertise to develop new technologies and introduce new products and solutions. Inability to consummate future acquisitions at appropriate prices could negatively impact our growth rate and stock price. Our ability to expand revenues, earnings, and cash flow depends in part upon our ability to identify and successfully acquire and integrate businesses at appropriate prices and to realize anticipated synergies. Acquisitions can be difficult to identify and consummate due to competition among prospective buyers and the need to satisfy applicable closing conditions and obtain antitrust and other regulatory approval on acceptable terms. The Company could encounter difficulties in any acquisition it undertakes, including unanticipated integration problems and business disruption. Acquisitions could also dilute stockholder value and adversely affect operating results. We may acquire or make investments in other businesses, technologies, services, products, or solutions. An acquisition may present business issues which are new to us. The process of integrating any acquired business, technology, service, or product into our operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Integration of an acquired company also may consume considerable management time and attention, which could otherwise be available for ongoing operations and the further development of our existing business. These and other factors may result in benefits of an acquisition not being fully realized. Acquisitions also may involve a number of risks, including: Difficulties and uncertainties in retaining the customers or other business relationships from the acquired entities; The loss of key employees of acquired entities; The ability of acquired entities to fulfill their customers obligations; The inheritance of known, and the discovery of unknown, issues or liabilities; Pre-closing and post-closing acquisition-related earnings charges could adversely impact operating results and cash flows in any given period, and the impact may be substantially different from period to period; The failure of acquired entities to meet or exceed expected operating results or cash flows could result in impairment of goodwill or intangible assets acquired; The ability to implement internal controls and accounting systems necessary to be compliant with requirements applicable to public companies subject to SEC reporting, which could result in misstated financial reports; and Future acquisitions could result in changes such as potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, and goodwill impairment charges. 13 Table of Contents The Company may not be able to continue to develop products or solutions to address user needs effectively in an industry characterized by ongoing change. To be successful, we must adapt to rapidly changing technological and application needs by continually improving our products and solutions, as well as introducing new products, solutions, and services, to address user demands. The Companys industry is characterized by: Evolving industry standards; Frequent new product, solution, and service introductions; Evolving distribution channels; Increasing demand for customized product and software solutions; Changing customer demands; and Changing security protocols. Future success will depend on our ability to effectively and economically adapt in this evolving environment. We could incur substantial costs if we must modify our business to adapt to these changes, and may even be unable to adapt to these changes. The Company participates in a competitive industry, which may become more competitive. Competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technology and changes in customer requirements. We face significant competition in developing and selling our products and solutions. To remain competitive, we believe we must continue to effectively and economically provide: Technologically advanced systems that satisfy user demands; Superior customer service; High levels of quality and reliability; and Dependable and efficient distribution networks. We cannot assure we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or technologies. Increased competition in mobile computing products, data capture products, radio frequency identification devices (RFID), printers, supplies, or software-based solutions may result in price reductions, lower gross profit margins, and loss of market share, and could require increased spending on research and development, sales and marketing, and customer support. Some competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships with suppliers or companies that produce complementary products and solutions, which may create additional pressures on our competitive position in the marketplace. Operational Risks The Company has substantial operations and sells a significant portion of our products, solutions and services outside of the U.S. and purchases important components, including final products, from suppliers located outside the U.S. Shipments to non-U.S. customers are expected to continue to account for a material portion of Net sales. We also expect to continue the use of third-party contract manufacturing services with non-U.S. production and assembly operations for our products. Risks associated with operations, sales, and purchases outside the United States include: Fluctuating foreign currency rates could restrict sales, increase costs of purchasing, and affect collection of receivables outside of the U.S.; Volatility in foreign credit markets may affect the financial well-being of our customers and suppliers; Violations of anti-corruption laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, could result in large fines and penalties; Adverse changes in, or uncertainty of, local business laws or practices, including the following: Imposition of burdensome tariffs, quotas, taxes, trade barriers, or capital flow restrictions; Restrictions on the export or import of technology may reduce or eliminate the ability to sell in, or purchase from, certain markets; Political and economic instability may reduce demand for our products or put our non-U.S. assets at risk; Limited intellectual property protection in certain countries may limit recourse against infringement on our products or may cause us to refrain from selling in certain geographic territories; Staffing may be difficult including higher than anticipated turnover; A government-controlled exchange rate and limitations on the convertibility of currencies, including the Chinese Yuan; Transportation delays and customs related delays may affect production and distribution of our products; Geopolitical uncertainty or turmoil could negatively affect our operations or those of our customers or suppliers; 14 Table of Contents Effectively managing and overseeing operations that are distant and remote from corporate headquarters; and Integration and enforcement of laws varies significantly among jurisdictions and may change over time Third parties may allege that the Company or our suppliers infringe upon their intellectual property rights. Periodically, third parties claim that we or our suppliers infringe upon their intellectual property rights. As we continue to expand our business and incorporate new technologies into our products and solutions, these types of claims may increase. Any of these claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and divert the attention of key personnel. To the extent a violation of a third partys patent or other intellectual property right is established, we may be prevented from operating our business as planned and we may be required to pay costly judgments or settlements, enter into costly licensing arrangements or use a non-infringing method to accomplish our business objectives, any of which could have a negative impact on our operating margins. The inability to protect intellectual property could harm our reputation, and our competitive position may be materially damaged. Our intellectual property is valuable and provides us with certain competitive advantages. We use copyrights, patents, trademarks, trade secrets, and contracts to protect these proprietary rights. Despite these precautions, third parties may be able to copy or reproduce aspects of our intellectual property and our products or, without authorization, to misappropriate and use information we regard as trade secrets. Additionally, the intellectual property rights we obtain may not be sufficient to provide us with a competitive advantage and may be successfully challenged, invalidated, circumvented, or infringed. In any infringement litigation that the Company may undertake to protect our intellectual property, any award of monetary damages may be unlikely or very difficult to obtain, and any such award we may receive may not be commercially valuable. Furthermore, efforts to enforce or protect our proprietary rights may be ineffective and could result in the invalidation or narrowing of the scope of our intellectual property and may cause us to incur substantial litigation costs. Because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of the Companys confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. Some aspects of our business and services also rely on technologies, software, and content developed by or licensed from third parties, and we may not be able to maintain our relationships with such third parties or enter into similar relationships in the future on reasonable terms or at all. We currently use third-party and/or open source operating systems and associated application ecosystems in certain of our products and solutions. Such parties ceasing continued development of the operating systems or restricting our access to such operating systems could adversely impact our business and financial results. We are dependent on third-parties continued development of operating systems, software application ecosystem infrastructures, and such third-parties approval of our implementations of their operating systems and associated applications. If such parties cease to continue development or support of such operating systems or restrict our access to such operating systems, we would be required to change our strategy for such devices. Our financial results could be negatively impacted by a resulting shift away from the operating systems we currently use and the associated applications ecosystem could be costly and difficult. A strategy shift could increase the burden of development on the Company and potentially create a gap in our portfolio for a period of time, which could competitively disadvantage us. Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt business operations. We rely on information technology systems throughout the Company to keep financial records, process orders, manage inventory, coordinate shipments to distributors and customers, maintain confidential and proprietary information, and other technical activities, and operate other critical functions such as internet connectivity, network communications, and email. Like many companies, we continually strive to meet industry information security standards relevant to our business. We periodically perform vulnerability assessments, remediate vulnerabilities, review log/access, perform system maintenance, manage network perimeter protection, implement and manage disaster recovery testing, and provide periodic educational sessions to our employees to foster awareness of schemes to access sensitive information. Despite our implementation of a variety of security measures, there is no assurance that such actions will be sufficient to prevent a cybersecurity incident. A cybersecurity incident could include an attempt to gain unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or causing operational disruption. Phishing and other types of attempts to obtain unauthorized information or access are often sophisticated and difficult to detect or defeat. A cybersecurity incident, including deliberate attacks and unintentional events, may lead to a material disruption of our core business systems, the loss or corruption of confidential business information, and/or the disclosure of personal data that in each case could result in an adverse business impact as well as possible damage to our brand. This could also lead to a public disclosure or theft of private intellectual property and a possible loss of customer confidence. While we have experienced and expect to continue to experience these types of threats and incidents, there have been no material incidents incurred to-date at the Company. If our core business operations, or that of one of our third-party service providers, were to be breached, this could affect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of our systems and data. Any failure on the part of us or our third-party service providers to maintain the security of data we are required to protect, including 15 Table of Contents via the penetration of our network security and the misappropriation of confidential and proprietary information, could result in business disruption, damage to our reputation, financial obligations to third parties, fines, penalties, regulatory proceedings, and private litigation with potentially large costs, and also result in deterioration in our suppliers, distributors, and customers confidence in us and other competitive disadvantages, and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. While we continue to perform security due diligence, there is always the possibility of a significant breach. Our products and solutions that are deployed in customer environments also have the possibility of being breached, which could result in damage to a customers confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the customers data and systems. It is possible that such a breach could result in delays in, or loss of market acceptance of, our products, solutions or services; diversion of our resources; injury to our reputation; increased service and warranty expenses; and payment of damages. To date, we have had no material incidents related to the security on our products or solutions. Although we maintain insurance related to cybersecurity risks, there can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will cover the particular cyber incident at issue or that such coverage will be sufficient. We may incur liabilities as a result of product failures due to actual or apparent design or manufacturing defects. We may be subject to product liability claims, which could include claims for property or economic damages or personal injury, in the event damages arise from our products as a result of actual or apparent design or manufacturing defects. Such design or manufacturing defects may occur not only in our own designed products, but also in components provided by third-party suppliers. We generally have insurance protection against property damage and personal injury liabilities and seek to limit such risk through product design, manufacturing quality control processes, product testing and contractual indemnification from suppliers. However, due to the growing size of the Companys installed product base and growing number of applications in which our products can be used, an actual or alleged design or manufacturing defect could result in product recalls, customer service costs or legal costs that could have material adverse effects on our financial results. Defects or errors in the Companys software products could harm our reputation, result in significant cost to us, and impair our ability to market such products. Our software may contain undetected errors, defects, or bugs. Although we have not suffered significant harm from any errors, defects, or bugs to date, we may discover significant errors, defects, or bugs in the future that we may not be able to correct or correct in a timely manner. Any future errors, defects, or bugs found in our software products and related services may result in delays in, or loss of market acceptance of, our products, solutions or services; diversion of resources; injury to reputation; increased service and warranty expenses; and payment of damages. We depend on the ongoing services of our senior management and the ability to attract and retain key personnel. The future success of the Company is substantially dependent on the continued services and contributions of senior management and other key personnel. The ability to attract, retain, and motivate highly skilled employees is important to our long-term success. Competition for skill sets in certain functions within our industry is intense and we may be unable to retain key employees or attract, assimilate, or retain other highly qualified employees in the future. Any disruption in the services of senior management or our ability to attract and retain key personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. A natural disaster, widespread public health issue, civil unrest, or man-made disaster may cause supply disruptions that could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Natural disasters or widespread public health issues, including pandemics, may occur in the future and the Company is not able to predict to what extent or duration any such disruptions will have on our ability to maintain ordinary business operations. The Companys operations and facilities are subject to catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, terrorism, or other natural or man-made disasters. If any of our facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue, and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. Following an interruption to our business, the Company could require substantial recovery time, experience significant expenditures to resume operations, and lose significant sales. If such a disruption were to occur, we could breach agreements, our reputation could be harmed, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. The consequences of a natural disaster or widespread public health issue may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic have and may continue to adversely affect our business, financial results, and results of operations. The coronavirus (COVID-19) has spread rapidly worldwide, resulting in a broad number of governmental and commercial efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19 globally, such as travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter in place orders, and shutdowns. The COVID-19 pandemic has been, and continues to be, complex and rapidly evolving, and has adversely impacted our business, primarily related to lower customer demand and higher fulfillment costs. The duration and extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, operations and financial results depends on factors that cannot be accurately predicted at this time, such as the severity and transmission rate of COVID-19, the extent and effectiveness of containment actions, the extent to which vaccines and/or other medical treatments are developed and made available to the 16 Table of Contents public, and the impact of these and other factors on our employees, customers, industry partners, suppliers and third party dealers, distributors, and resellers. The federal, state, and local governments as well as foreign governments, to varying degrees, have imposed, and continue to impose, several protocols and regulations restricting the physical movement or other activities of individuals in an effort to limit the spread of COVID-19. We have implemented a number of measures in an effort to protect the health and well-being of our employees, customers and suppliers, including having the majority of office workers work remotely, limiting employee travel, and withdrawing from industry events. The transition to working remotely for most of our office employees may impact our business operations, customer relationships, pose additional data security risks as well as impact our ability to attract and retain talent. The extent and duration of ongoing workplace restrictions and limitations, particularly in sites with significant headcount, could adversely impact our operations and our ability to execute on strategic imperatives for our business. As governments ease their restrictions and we allow our employees to come back to work in our offices in a controlled approach, we have modified our business practices, including implementing social distancing protocols, office capacity restrictions, health screening, provision of personal protective equipment, tracking and tracing protocols, and extensively and frequently disinfecting our workspaces. However, there is no guarantee that such protocols will be successful in preventing the spread of COVID-19 amongst our employees. In late 2020, certain vaccines were authorized by major regulatory bodies to help fight the infection of COVID-19, and certain other vaccines are in the late stages of development to provide such treatment. At this time, the availability of authorized vaccines is highly limited, and the time required to make these vaccines available to all members of the public remains uncertain. Further, we have experienced higher than normal employee absentee rates for employees who are unable to work from home, and even as employees return to our offices, we may be prevented from conducting business activities at full capacity for an indefinite period of time. The potential negative effects to our operations, including reductions in production levels, research and development activities, and increased costs resulting from our efforts to mitigate the impact of COVID-19, may adversely affect our ability to deliver our products, solutions and services. In addition, the continued spread of COVID-19 has led to disruption and volatility in the worldwide credit and financial markets, which could limit our ability to obtain external financing and result in a higher rate of losses on our accounts receivables due to credit defaults, adversely affecting our liquidity. While the COVID-19 pandemic has not materially impacted our liquidity and capital resources to date, the duration and severity of any further economic or market impact of the pandemic remains uncertain and there can be no assurance that it will not have an adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources, including our ability to access capital markets, in the future. If COVID-19 becomes more prevalent in the locations where our customers, suppliers, or we conduct business, we may experience more pronounced disruptions in our operations. If we are not able to respond to and manage the impact of such events effectively, our business and results of operations in future periods may be adversely affected. Moreover, the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic may exacerbate other pre-existing risks, such as global economic conditions, political, regulatory, social, financial, operational and cybersecurity as well as similar risks relating to our suppliers and customers, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Zebra could be adversely impacted by the United Kingdoms withdrawal from the European Union. Z ebra maintains its European regional headquarters and a label converting facility in the U.K. and has significant operations and sales throughout Europe, including its regional distribution center located in Heerenveen, Netherlands. Following the U.K. formally withdrawing from the E.U. on January 31, 2020, the U.K. and E.U. entered into a transition period that ended on December 31, 2020. The E.U.-U.K. Trade and Cooperation Agreement was entered into on December 24, 2020 and details the future relationship between the U.K. and E.U., and has resolved much uncertainty. Nevertheless, effective January 1, 2021, customs borders are in place between Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Great Britain and the E.U., which could adversely impact Zebras operations and financial performance due to the increase in importation requirements that may lead to disrupted or delayed shipments in the region. Such disrupted or delayed shipments may also result in shortages of products and components or loss of customer confidence, which could affect Zebras financial performance. We are exposed to risks under large, multi-year system and solutions and services contracts that may negatively impact our business. We enter into large, multi-year system and solutions and services contracts with our customers that expose us to risks, including among others: (i) technological risks, especially when contracts involve new technology; (ii) financial risks, including the accuracy of estimates inherent in projecting costs associated with large, long-term contracts and the related impact on operating results; and (iii) cybersecurity risks, especially in solutions or managed services contracts with customers that process personal data. Recovery of front-loaded costs incurred on long-term managed services and software-based solutions contracts with customers is dependent on the continued viability of such customers. The insolvency of customers could result in a loss of anticipated future revenue attributable to that program or product, which could have an adverse impact on our profitability. We enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event we fail to properly estimate our costs. If our initial cost estimates are incorrect, we can lose money on these contracts. Because many of these contracts involve new 17 Table of Contents technologies and applications and require the Company to engage subcontractors and can last multiple years, unforeseen events, such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in the price of raw materials, problems with our subcontractors or suppliers, and other cost overruns, can result in the contract pricing becoming less favorable or even unprofitable to us and have an adverse impact on our financial results. In addition, a significant increase in inflation rates could have an adverse impact on the profitability of longer-term contracts. We utilize the services of subcontractors to perform under many of our contracts, and the inability of our subcontractors to perform in a timely and compliant manner could negatively impact our performance obligations as the prime contractor. We engage subcontractors on many of our contracts and our use of subcontractors has and may continue to increase as we expand our global solutions and services business. Our subcontractors may further subcontract performance and may supply third-party products and software. We may have disputes with our subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by a subcontractor and the functionality, warranty and indemnities of products, software, and services supplied by a subcontractor. We are not always successful in passing along customer requirements to our subcontractors, and thus in some cases may be required to absorb contractual risks from our customers without corresponding back-to-back coverage from our subcontractors. Our subcontractors may not be able to acquire or maintain the quality of the materials, components, subsystems, and services they supply, or secure preferred warranty and indemnity coverage from their suppliers, which might result in greater product returns, service problems, warranty claims and costs, and regulatory compliance issues and could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have outsourced portions of certain business operations such as repair, distribution, engineering services, and information technology services and may outsource additional business operations, which limits our control over these business operations and exposes us to additional risk as a result of the actions of our outsource partners. We are not able to directly control certain business operations that we outsource. Our outsource partners may not prioritize our business over that of their other customers and they may not meet our desired level of service, cost reductions, or other metrics. In some cases, our outsource partners actions may result in our being found to be in violation of laws or regulations, such as import or export regulations. As many of our outsource partners operate outside of the U.S., our outsourcing activity exposes us to information security vulnerabilities and increases our global risks. In addition, we are exposed to the financial viability of our outsource partners. Once a business activity is outsourced, we may be contractually prohibited from, or may not practically be able to, bring such activity back within the Company or move it to another outsource partner. The actions of our outsource partners could result in reputational damage to us and could negatively impact our financial results. Additionally, transitioning activities between new or existing outsource partners or across different geographies as well as insourcing activities could result in additional cost, time and management attention in order to effectively manage the transition, which could negatively impact our financial results. Failure of our suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers, and representatives to use acceptable legal or ethical business practices could negatively impact our business. It is our policy to require suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers, and third-party sales representatives (TPSRs) to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules, and regulations, including those regarding working conditions, employment practices, environmental compliance, anti-corruption, and trademark and copyright licensing. However, we do not control their labor and other business practices. If one of our suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers, or TPSRs violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are regarded as unethical, the shipment of finished products to us could be interrupted, orders could be canceled, relationships could be terminated, and our reputation could be damaged. If one of our suppliers or subcontractors fails to procure necessary license rights to trademarks, copyrights, or patents, legal action could be taken against us that could impact the salability of the Companys products and solutions, and expose us to financial obligations to a third-party. Any of these events could have a negative impact on our sales and results of operations. We rely on third-party dealers, distributors, and resellers to sell many of our products and solutions, and their failure to effectively bring our products and solutions to market may negatively affect our results of operation and financial results. In addition to our own sales force, we offer our products and solutions through a variety of third-party dealers, distributors, and resellers who may also market other products and solutions that compete with ours. Failure of one or more of our third-party dealers, distributors, or resellers to effectively promote our products and solutions could affect our ability to bring products and solutions to market and have a negative impact on our results of operations. Any changes to our channel program may cause some of our third-party dealers, distributors, or resellers to exit the program due to modifications to the program structure, which may reduce our ability to bring products and solutions to market and could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Some of these third-parties are smaller and more likely to be impacted by a significant decrease in available credit that could result from a weakness in the financial markets. If credit pressures or other financial difficulties result in insolvency for third-party dealers, distributors, or resellers and we are unable to successfully transition end-customers to purchase our products and solutions from other third-parties or from us directly, it may cause, and in some cases, has caused, a negative impact on our financial results. 18 Table of Contents Final assembly of certain of our products is performed by third-party electronics manufacturers. We may be dependent on these third-party electronics manufacturers as a sole-source of supply for the manufacture of such products. A failure by such manufacturers to provide manufacturing services to us as we require, or any disruption in such manufacturing services up to and including a catastrophic shut-down, may adversely affect our business results. Because we rely on these third-party electronics manufacturers to manufacture our products, we may incur increased business continuity risks. We are not able to exercise direct control over the assembly or related operations of certain of our products. If these third-party manufacturers experience business difficulties or fail to meet our manufacturing needs, then we may be unable to satisfy customer product demands, lose sales, and be unable to maintain customer relationships. Longer production lead times may result in shortages of certain products and inadequate inventories during periods of unanticipated higher demand. Without such third parties continuing to manufacture our products, we may have no other means of final assembly of certain of our products until we are able to secure the manufacturing capability at another facility or develop an alternative manufacturing facility. This transition could be costly and time consuming. From time to time we may diversify our product sourcing footprint, similar to the actions we took with our efforts to reduce our reliance on Chinese-based manufacturing, which may result in additional costs. Our future operating results depend on our ability to purchase a sufficient amount of materials, parts, and components, as well as services and software to meet the demands of customers. We source some of our components from sole source suppliers. Any disruption to our suppliers or significant increase in the price of supplies could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Our ability to meet customers demands depends, in part, on our ability to obtain in a timely manner an adequate delivery of quality materials, parts, and components, as well as services and software from our suppliers. In addition, certain supplies are available only from a single source or limited sources and we may not be able to diversify sources in a timely manner. If demand for our products, solutions or services increases from our current expectations or if suppliers are unable or unwilling to meet our demand for other reasons, including as a result of natural disasters, public health issues, severe weather conditions, or financial issues, we could experience an interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies that could have a negative impact on our business. We have experienced shortages in the past that have negatively impacted our results of operations and may experience such shortages in the future. Credit constraints at our suppliers could cause us to accelerate payment of accounts payable by us, impacting our cash flow. In addition, our current contracts with certain suppliers may be canceled or not extended by such suppliers and, therefore, not afford us with sufficient protection against a reduction or interruption in supplies. Moreover, in the event any of these suppliers breach their contracts with us, our legal remedies associated with such a breach may be insufficient to compensate us for any damages it may suffer. Financial and Market Risks The impact of changes in customs duties and trade policies in the United States and corresponding actions by other countries in which the Company does business could adversely affect our financial performance. The Company currently imports a significant percentage of our products into the U.S., and an increase in customs duties with respect to these imports could negatively impact the Companys financial performance. During 2020, the Company successfully completed efforts to diversify its product sourcing footprint in order to reduce its reliance on Chinese-based manufacturing and mitigate the impacts of related customs duties. Taxing authority challenges may lead to tax payments exceeding current reserves. We are subject to, and may become subject to, ongoing tax examinations in various jurisdictions. As a result, we may record incremental tax expense based on expected outcomes of such matters. In addition, we may adjust previously reported tax reserves based on expected results of these examinations. Such adjustments could result in an increase or decrease to the Companys effective tax rate and cash flows. Future changes in tax law in various jurisdictions around the world and income tax holidays could have a material impact on our effective tax rate, foreign rate differential, future income tax expense, and cash flows. Forecasting our estimated annual effective tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty, and there may be material differences between our forecasted and actual tax rates. Forecasts of our income tax position and effective tax rate are complex, subject to uncertainty and periodic updates because our income tax position for each year combines the effects of a mix of profits earned and losses incurred by us in various tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates, as well as changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the impact of various accounting rules and changes to these rules, the results of examinations by various tax authorities, and the impact of any acquisition, business combination, disposition or other reorganization, or financing transaction. As a multinational corporation, we conduct our business in many countries and are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions. The taxation of our business is subject to the application of multiple, and sometimes conflicting, tax laws and regulations, as well as multinational tax conventions. Many countries have recently adopted, or are considering the adoption of, revisions to their respective tax laws based on the on-going reports issued by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and 19 Table of Contents Development (OECD)/G20 Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) Project, which could materially impact our tax liability due to our organizational structure and significant operations outside of the U.S. Our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic distribution of our worldwide earnings or losses resulting from our structure and operating model, the tax regulations and tax holidays in each geographic region, and the availability of tax credits and carry-forwards. The application of tax laws and regulations is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment, and uncertainty. Tax laws themselves are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation, and the evolution of regulations and court rulings. Consequently, taxing authorities may impose tax assessments or judgments against us that could materially impact our tax liability and/or our effective income tax rate. Economic conditions and financial market disruptions may adversely affect our business and results of operations . Adverse economic conditions or reduced information technology spending may negatively impact our business. General disruption of financial markets and a related general economic downturn could adversely affect our business and financial condition through a reduction in demand for our products, solutions or services by our customers. If a slowdown were severe enough, it could require further impairment testing and write-downs of goodwill and other intangible assets. Cost reduction actions may be necessary and might lead to restructuring charges. A tightening of financial credit could adversely affect our customers, suppliers, outsourced manufacturers, and channel partners (e.g., distributors and resellers) from obtaining adequate credit for the financing of significant purchases. An economic downturn could also result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for our products, solutions and services; negatively impacting the ability to collect accounts receivable on a timely basis; result in additional reserves for uncollectible accounts receivable; and require additional reserves for inventory obsolescence. Higher volatility and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates for the U.S. Dollar against currencies such as the Euro, British Pound Sterling, Czech Koruna, Brazilian Real, and Chinese Yuan could negatively impact product sales, margins, and cash flows. It is important that we are able to obtain many different types of insurance, and if we are not able to obtain insurance or exhaust our coverage, we may be forced to retain the risk. We have many types of insurance coverage and are also self-insured for some risks and obligations. Our third-party insurance coverage varies from time to time in both type and amount depending on availability, cost and our decisions with respect to risk retention. Economic conditions and uncertainties in global markets may adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain third-party insurance. In addition, our third-party insurance policies are subject to deductibles, policy limits, and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis. Further, certain types of coverages may be difficult or expensive to obtain. We self-insure against certain business risks and expenses where we believe we can adequately self-insure against the anticipated exposure and risk or where insurance is either not deemed cost-effective or is not available. If the amount of our third-party insurance coverage is not available or adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, or to the extent we have elected to self-insure, we may be forced to bear substantial costs from an accident, incident, or claim. Losses not covered by insurance could be substantial and unpredictable and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our business. As of December 31, 2020, we had $1.3 billion of outstanding debt, gross of unamortized discounts and debt issuance costs. Our indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: We may experience difficulty in satisfying our obligations with respect to our existing indebtedness or future indebtedness; Our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or general corporate purposes may be impaired; We may be at a competitive disadvantage with reduced flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changing conditions in the industry, including increased competition; and We may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in the business. We expect to fund our expenses and to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness from cash flow from operations. Our ability to meet our expenses and to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness when due depends on our future performance and ability to collect cash from our customers, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions in the markets where we operate and pressure from competitors. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flows from operations or if future borrowings are not available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before the maturity thereof, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, we may not be able to effect any of these actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our ability to restructure or refinance our indebtedness will depend on the condition of the capital and debt markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, 20 Table of Contents which could further restrict business operations. The terms of anticipated or future debt instruments may limit or prevent us from taking any of these actions. In addition, any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and/or principal on outstanding indebtedness would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to access additional capital on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations, or to refinance or restructure our obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would have an adverse effect, which could be material, on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as on our ability to satisfy the obligations in respect of our indebtedness. Our use of derivative financial instruments to reduce interest rate risk may result in added volatility in our operating results . We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. However, we do utilize derivative financial instruments to reduce interest rate risk associated with our indebtedness. To manage variable interest rate risk, we entered into forward interest rate swap agreements, which will effectively convert a portion of our indebtedness into a fixed rate loan. Under generally accepted accounting principles, changes in the fair values of the swap contracts are reflected in our Consolidated Statements of Operations as a component of Other, net if not hedged. The associated impact on our quarterly operating results is directly related to changes in prevailing interest rates. If interest rates increase, we would have a non-cash gain on the swaps, and vice versa in the event of a decrease in interest rates. Consequently, these swaps introduce additional volatility to our operating results. Legal and Regulatory Risks We could be adversely impacted by changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters. Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our businesses, including, but not limited to, revenue recognition, asset impairment, business acquisition purchase price allocations, impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, inventories, tax matters, and litigation and other contingent liabilities are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates, or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition. New accounting guidance may also require systems and other changes that could increase our operating costs and/or change our financial statements. Laws and regulations relating to the handling of personal data may result in increased costs, legal claims, or fines against the Company. As part of our operations, the Company collects, uses, stores, and transfers personal data of third parties, employees and limited customer data in and across various jurisdictions. Laws and regulations relating to the handling of such personal data may result in increased costs, legal claims, or fines against the Company. Existing laws and emerging regulations may be inconsistent across jurisdictions and are subject to evolving and differing (sometimes conflicting) interpretations. Government officials, regulators and privacy advocates are increasingly scrutinizing how companies collect, process, use, store, share and transmit personal data, which may result in new interpretations of existing laws that impact our business. Compliance with these laws may require us to, among other things, make changes in services, business practices, or internal systems that may result in increased costs, lower revenue, reduced efficiency, or greater difficulty in competing with foreign-based firms. Further, there is no assurance that we will be able to meet additional requirements that may be imposed on the transfer of personal data without incurring expenses. We may experience reluctance or refusal by customers to purchase or continue to use our services due to concerns regarding their data protection obligations. Our actual or perceived failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or other obligations to which we may be subject, or to protect personal data from unauthorized access, use, or other processing, may subject the Company to enforcement actions and regulatory investigations, claims, legal proceedings or other actions, reputational harm and loss of goodwill, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial performance, and business. The unfavorable outcome of any pending or future litigation, arbitration, or administrative action could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. From time to time we are a party to litigation, arbitration, or administrative actions. Our financial results and reputation could be negatively impacted by unfavorable outcomes to any pending or future litigation or administrative actions, including those related to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, or other anti-corruption laws. There can be no assurances as to the favorable outcome of any litigation or administrative proceedings. In addition, it can be very costly to defend litigation or administrative proceedings and these costs could negatively impact our financial results. We are subject to a wide range of product regulatory and safety, consumer, worker safety, and environmental laws. Our operations and the products we manufacture and/or sell are subject to a wide range of product regulatory and safety, consumer, worker safety, and environmental laws and regulations. Compliance with such existing or future laws and regulations could subject us to future costs or liabilities, impact our production capabilities, constrict our ability to sell, expand or acquire facilities, restrict what products, solutions and services we can offer, and generally impact our financial performance. Some of 21 Table of Contents these laws are environmental and relate to the use, disposal, remediation, emission and discharge of, and exposure to hazardous substances. These laws often impose liability and can require parties to fund remedial studies or actions regardless of fault. We continue to incur disposal costs and have ongoing remediation obligations. Environmental laws have tended to become more stringent over time and any new obligations under these laws could have a negative impact on our operations or financial performance. Laws focused on the energy efficiency of electronic products and accessories; recycling of both electronic products and packaging; reducing or eliminating certain hazardous substances in electronic products; and the transportation of batteries continue to expand significantly. Laws pertaining to accessibility features of electronic products, standardization of connectors and power supplies, the transportation of lithium-ion batteries, and other aspects are also proliferating. There are also demanding and rapidly changing laws around the globe related to issues such as product safety, radio interference, radio frequency radiation exposure, medical related functionality, and consumer and social mandates pertaining to use of wireless or electronic equipment. These laws, and changes to these laws, could have a substantial impact on whether we can offer certain products, solutions, and services, and on what capabilities and characteristics our products, solutions or services can or must include. These laws impact our products and negatively affect our ability to manufacture and sell products competitively. We expect these trends to continue. In addition, we anticipate that we will see increased demand to meet voluntary criteria related to reduction or elimination of certain constituents from products, increasing energy efficiency, and providing additional accessibility. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties Our corporate headquarters are located in Lincolnshire, Illinois; a northern suburb of Chicago. We also operate manufacturing, production and warehousing, administrative, research, and sales facilities in other U.S. and international locations. As of December 31, 2020, the Company owned three laboratory and warehouse facilities located in the U.S., U.K., and Canada. As of December 31, 2020, the Company had a total of 125 leased facilities with locations spread globally; 35 of which are located in the U.S. and 90 of which are located in other countries. See Note 13, Leases in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to the Companys lease arrangements. We generally consider the productive capacity of our facilities to be adequate and sufficient for our requirements. The extent of utilization of each manufacturing facility varies throughout the year. Item 3. Legal Proceedings See Note 14, Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 22 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Stock Information Our Class A Common Stock is traded on the NASDAQ Stock Market, LLC under the symbol ZBRA. As of February 4, 2021, the last reported price for the Companys Class A Common Stock was $407.34 per share, and there were 103 registered stockholders of record for Zebras Class A Common Stock. The number of beneficial owners is substantially greater than the number of stockholders of record, because a large portion of our Class A common stock is transacted through banks and brokers. Dividend Policy Since our initial public offering in 1991, we have not declared any cash dividends or distributions on our capital stock. We currently do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Treasury Shares The following table sets forth information with respect to repurchases of the Companys common stock for the three months ended December 31, 2020. Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs (1) Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (in millions) (1) September 27, 2020 - October 24, 2020 $ $ 753 October 25, 2020 - November 21, 2020 753 November 22, 2020 - December 31, 2020 753 Total $ $ 753 (1) On July 30, 2019, the Company announced that its Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program for up to an aggregate amount of $1 billion of its outstanding shares of common stock. Repurchases may be effected from time to time through open market purchases, including pursuant to a pre-set trading plan meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5-1(c) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. During the fourth quarter of 2020, the Company did not make any share repurchases under the program, which does not have a stated expiration date. 23 Table of Contents Stock Performance Graph The following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return, calculated on a dividend-reinvested basis, in Zebra Technologies Corporation Class A Common Stock, the S&P 500 Index, S&P 500 Information Technology Index, RDG Technology Composite, and the NASDAQ Composite Market Index for the five years ended December 31, 2020. As a result of our joining the S&P 500, we have added the S&P 500 Index and S&P 500 Information Technology Index for 2020 in accordance with Regulation S-K and because we believe these are more relevant indexes. In future years, we will not use the RDG Technology Composite or the NASDAQ Composite Market Index. The comparison assumes that $100 was invested in each of the Companys Class A Common Stock, the S&P 500 Index, S&P 500 Information Technology Index, RDG Technology Composite and the NASDAQ Composite Market Index as of the market close on December 31, 2015. Note that historic stock price performance is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. Value at each year-end of $100 initial investment made on December 31, 2015 12/15 12/16 12/17 12/18 12/19 12/20 Zebra Technologies Corporation $ 100.00 $ 123.13 $ 149.03 $ 228.61 $ 366.75 $ 551.80 NASDAQ Composite $ 100.00 $ 108.87 $ 141.13 $ 137.12 $ 187.44 $ 271.64 S&P 500 $ 100.00 $ 111.96 $ 136.40 $ 130.42 $ 171.49 $ 203.04 RDG Technology Composite $ 100.00 $ 114.21 $ 156.95 $ 157.68 $ 231.96 $ 340.33 S&P 500 Information Technology $ 100.00 $ 113.85 $ 158.06 $ 157.60 $ 236.86 $ 340.83 24 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data FIVE YEAR SUMMARY OF SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA (In millions, except shares and per share amounts) Year Ended December 31, Consolidated Statements of Operations (1) 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 Net sales $ 4,448 $ 4,485 $ 4,218 $ 3,722 $ 3,574 Gross profit 2,003 2,100 1,981 1,710 1,642 Net income (loss) $ 504 $ 544 $ 421 $ 17 $ (137) Basic earnings (loss) per share $ 9.43 $ 10.08 $ 7.86 $ 0.33 $ (2.65) Diluted earnings (loss) per share $ 9.35 $ 9.97 $ 7.76 $ 0.32 $ (2.65) Weighted average shares outstanding: Basic 53,441,375 53,991,249 53,591,655 53,021,761 51,579,112 Diluted 53,913,245 54,594,417 54,299,812 53,688,832 51,579,112 December 31, Consolidated Balance Sheets (1) (2) 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 Cash and cash equivalents $ 168 $ 30 $ 44 $ 62 $ 156 Total Assets 5,375 4,711 4,339 4,275 4,632 Long-term liabilities 1,380 1,468 1,703 2,441 2,891 Total Stockholders Equity 2,144 1,839 1,335 834 792 (1) Includes the Reflexis, Cortexica, Profitect, Temptime and Xplore businesses, effective upon their respective dates of acquisition, which were as follows: Reflexis on September 1, 2020, Cortexica on November 5, 2019, Profitect on May 31, 2019, Temptime on February 21, 2019 and Xplore on August 14, 2018. See Note 5, Business Acquisitions in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to these acquisitions. (2) Effective January 1, 2019, the Company adopted Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 842, Leases (ASC 842), which resulted in the recognition of right-of-use lease assets and lease liabilities for operating leases with terms greater than one year. The Company adopted ASC 842 under the modified retrospective approach, and therefore financial statements prior to 2019 were not affected by this standard. See Note 13, Leases in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the Companys leasing activities. 25 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This section generally discusses fiscal 2020 and 2019 items and year-over-year comparisons between 2020 and 2019. Discussions of 2018 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2019 and 2018 are not included herein. Refer to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019 for this discussion. Overview Zebra Technologies Corporation and its subsidiaries (Zebra or the Company) is a global leader respected for innovative Enterprise Asset Intelligence (EAI) solutions in the automatic identification and data capture solutions industry. We design, manufacture, and sell a broad range of products and solutions, including cloud-based subscriptions, that capture and move data, including: mobile computers; barcode scanners and imagers; radio frequency identification device (RFID) readers; specialty printers for barcode labeling and personal identification; real-time location systems (RTLS); related accessories and supplies, such as self-adhesive labels and other consumables; and software applications. We also provide a full range of services, including maintenance, technical support, and repair, managed and professional services. End-users of our products, solutions and services include those in the retail and e-commerce, transportation and logistics, manufacturing, healthcare, hospitality, warehouse and distribution, energy and utilities, government, education, and banking enterprises around the world. We provide products, solutions, and services in approximately 180 countries, with 128 facilities and approximately 8,800 employees worldwide. Our customers have traditionally benefited from proven solutions that increase productivity and improve asset efficiency and utilization. The Company is poised to drive, and capitalize on, the evolution of the data capture industry into the broader EAI industry, based on important technology trends like the Internet of Things (IoT), ubiquitous mobility, automation and cloud computing. EAI solutions offer additional benefits to our customers including real-time, data-driven insights that improve operational visibility and drive workflow optimization. The Companys operations consist of two reportable segments: Asset Intelligence & Tracking (AIT) and Enterprise Visibility & Mobility (EVM). The AIT segment is an industry leader in barcode printing and asset tracking technologies. Its major product lines include barcode and card printers, supplies, services, location solutions, and retail solutions. Industries served include retail and e-commerce, transportation and logistics, manufacturing, healthcare, and other end markets within the following regions: North America; Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA); Asia-Pacific; and Latin America. The EVM segment is an industry leader in automatic information and data capture solutions. Its major product lines include mobile computing, data capture, RFID, services, and workflow optimization solutions. Industries served include retail and e-commerce, transportation and logistics, manufacturing, healthcare, and other end markets within the following regions: North America; EMEA; Asia-Pacific; and Latin America. Beginning in the first quarter of 2021, we will move the retail solutions product line from our AIT segment into our EVM segment contemporaneous with a change in our organizational structure and management of the business. We will begin reporting our results reflecting this change in the first quarter of 2021 and will present historical periods on a comparable basis. The impact of this change does not have an impact to the Consolidated Financial Statements and is immaterial to our current and historical reportable segment results. Recent Developments COVID-19 Outbreak In 2020, the coronavirus (COVID-19) spread rapidly worldwide, resulting in a broad number of governmental and commercial efforts to contain it, such as travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter in place orders, and shutdowns. These events have resulted in significant declines in global economic activity and significant volatility in financial market valuations, the duration and extent of which continues to be highly uncertain. The Companys 2020 Net sales and profitability were negatively impacted by the direct and indirect effects of the pandemic which were most pronounced in the second quarter. We serve a diverse mix of customers. Some of our customers have experienced significant declines or suspensions to their operations, whereas others have experienced increases in their business volume. While many of our supply chain partners in China temporarily suspended or modified their business operations in early 2020 as a consequence of COVID-19, we have 26 Table of Contents substantially mitigated the impact of these disruptions by taking exceptional actions, including alternative modes of product delivery and fulfillment, as well as providing protective equipment and hazard pay premiums for our front-line employees. The federal, state, and local governments as well as foreign governments, to varying degrees, have imposed, and continue to impose, several protocols and regulations restricting the physical movement or other activities of individuals in an effort to limit the spread of COVID-19. We have implemented a number of measures in an effort to protect our employees health and well-being, including having the majority of office workers work remotely, limiting employee travel, and withdrawing from in-person industry events. In addition, as governments continue to ease their restrictions and we continue to allow our employees to come back to work in our offices in a controlled approach, we have modified our business practices, including implementing social distancing protocols, office capacity restrictions, health screening, provision of personal protective equipment, tracking and tracing protocols, and extensively and frequently disinfecting our workspaces. Throughout the pandemic, distribution centers and repair centers have remained open at varying capacity levels to ensure continued support to our customers, many of whom provide essential goods and services to communities. During the past year, we considered the potential impacts of the global pandemic in qualitative impairment assessments of our long-lived assets, including goodwill and intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and right-of-use lease assets. We concluded that it is not more likely than not that any of our long-lived assets are impaired. Our analysis considered, among other factors: the nature of our products, solutions, and services as well as our position within our industry; our highly variable cost structure; the assumption that the negative impacts from COVID-19 will be temporary; and that the Company will continue generating strong positive operating cash flows over the long-term. We have also considered the adequacy of our capital resources, inclusive of available borrowing capacity and other financing facilities; the results of our most recent quantitative goodwill impairment assessment, which was last completed in the fourth quarter of 2020 and further discussed in Note 6, Goodwill and Other Intangibles in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements; and that our market capitalization has continued to far exceed total net assets. Finally, while we may experience a temporary increase in working capital levels, we do not anticipate a material impact to the realizability of current assets, such as accounts receivable or inventories, at this time. The situation related to the pandemic continues to be complex and rapidly evolving. In late 2020, certain vaccines were authorized by major regulatory bodies to help fight the infection of COVID-19, and certain other vaccines are in the late stages of development to provide such treatment. At this time, however, the availability of authorized vaccines is highly limited, and the time required to make these vaccines available to all members of the public remains uncertain. If COVID-19 persists or worsens before a safe and effective vaccine or other treatment is made widely available, there may be further external developments, such as restrictions imposed by government authorities or guidance issued by public health authorities, that are beyond our control and may impact our operating plans. Parts of our business have experienced, and may continue to experience, operational disruption and customer demand impacts. Since the onset of the pandemic, we have taken certain cost reduction actions to mitigate the impact to profitability and cash flow. We cannot reasonably estimate the duration of the pandemic or fully ascertain its long-term impact to our business. Acquisitions Reflexis On September 1, 2020, the Company acquired Reflexis Systems, Inc. (Reflexis), a provider of task and workforce management, execution, and communication solutions for customers in the retail, food service, hospitality, and banking industries. Through this acquisition, the Company intends to enhance its solution offerings to customers in these industries by combining Reflexis platform with its existing software solutions and product offerings, further empowering front line workers to execute the next best action using real time data. The operating results of Reflexis are included within the EVM segment. The Companys total purchase consideration was $548 million, net of cash acquired. The Company incurred approximately $21 million of acquisition-related costs, which primarily consisted of payments to settle certain existing Reflexis share-based compensation awards, as well as third-party transaction and advisory fees, that are included within Acquisition and integration costs on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Additionally, in exchange for the cancellation of unvested Reflexis stock options, the Company granted replacement share-based compensation awards to certain Reflexis employees in the form of Zebra incentive stock options with a fair value of approximately $9 million. The stock options will be expensed over the weighted average future service period, which was 1.7 27 Table of Contents years as of the acquisition date. See Note 15, Share-Based Compensation in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of these replacement awards. The acquisition of Reflexis was funded, in part, by the issuance of a new term loan (the 2020 Term Loan) in the amount of $200 million. The acquisition of Reflexis was otherwise funded using the Companys cash on hand and borrowing under the Companys existing Revolving Credit Facility. See additional details related to the Companys debt arrangements in Note 10, Long-Term Debt in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . Cortexica On November 5, 2019, the Company acquired Cortexica Vision Systems Limited (Cortexica), for $7 million in cash. Cortexica is a provider of computer vision based artificial intelligence solutions primarily serving the retail industry. Additionally, we incurred approximately $2 million of acquisition-related costs in 2019, which primarily included third-party transaction and advisory fees, that are reflected within Acquisition and integration costs on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The operating results of Cortexica are included within the EVM segment. Profitect On May 31, 2019, the Company acquired Profitect, Inc. (Profitect), a provider of prescriptive analytics primarily serving the retail industry. The Companys total purchase consideration was $79 million, which consisted of $75 million in cash, net of cash acquired, and the fair value of the Companys existing minority ownership interest in Profitect of $4 million, as remeasured upon acquisition. Included within Other, net on the Consolidated Statements of Operations in 2019 is a $4 million gain resulting from the remeasurement of the Companys previously held ownership interest in Profitect. Additionally, we incurred $13 million of acquisition-related costs in 2019, which primarily consisted of payments to settle certain Profitect employee stock option awards, as well as, third-party transaction and advisory fees, that are included within Acquisition and integration costs on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The operating results of Profitect are included within the EVM segment. Temptime On February 21, 2019, the Company acquired Temptime Corporation (Temptime), a developer and manufacturer of temperature-monitoring labels and devices. In connection with this acquisition, the Company paid $180 million in cash, net of cash acquired. Additionally, we incurred $3 million of acquisition-related costs in 2019, which primarily included third-party transaction and advisory fees, that are included within Acquisition and integration costs on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The operating results of Temptime are included within the AIT segment. Product Sourcing Diversification Initiative The Company commenced efforts in 2019 to diversify its product sourcing footprint to include sourcing products from Taiwan, Vietnam, and Malaysia, thereby reducing its reliance on Chinese-based manufacturing and the impacts of related customs duties (tariffs) on U.S imports from China. In conjunction with this initiative, the Company incurred total one-time costs of $23 million, including $18 million and $5 million during the years ended December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively, which are primarily reflected within Operating expenses on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company also made $8 million of incremental equipment purchases during the year ended December 31, 2020. The Company has completed this initiative and has begun sourcing products from these alternative locations. As of the end of 2020, these actions, along with certain U.S. pricing actions, have substantially mitigated the ongoing financial impacts of Chinese import tariffs. Restructuring Programs In the fourth quarter of 2019, the Company committed to certain organizational changes designed to generate operational efficiencies (collectively referred to as the 2019 Productivity Plan). The organizational design changes under the 2019 Productivity Plan, which principally occurred within the North America and EMEA regions. The 2019 Productivity Plan was completed in the fourth quarter of 2020. Exit and restructuring charges, primarily related to employee severance and benefits, for the 2019 Productivity Plan were $11 million and $8 million during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. See Note 9, Exit and Restructuring Costs in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information related to the 2019 Productivity Plan. 28 Table of Contents Results of Operations: Year Ended 2020 versus 2019 and Year Ended 2019 versus 2018 Consolidated Results of Operations (amounts in millions, except percentages) Year Ended December 31, Percent Change 2020 vs 2019 Percent Change 2019 vs 2018 2020 2019 2018 Net sales: Tangible products $ 3,813 $ 3,907 $ 3,685 (2.4) % 6.0 % Services and software 635 578 533 9.9 % 8.4 % Total Net sales 4,448 4,485 4,218 (0.8) % 6.3 % Gross profit 2,003 2,100 1,981 (4.6) % 6.0 % Gross margin 45.0 % 46.8 % 47.0 % (180) bps (20) bps Operating expenses 1,352 1,408 1,371 (4.0) % 2.7 % Operating income $ 651 $ 692 $ 610 (5.9) % 13.4 % Net sales to customers by geographic region were as follows (amounts in millions, except percentages): Year Ended December 31, Percent Change 2020 vs 2019 Percent Change 2019 vs 2018 2020 2019 2018 North America $ 2,319 $ 2,261 $ 2,041 2.6 % 10.8 % EMEA 1,495 1,462 1,409 2.3 % 3.8 % Asia-Pacific 439 518 520 (15.3) % (0.4) % Latin America 195 244 248 (20.1) % (1.6) % Total Net sales $ 4,448 $ 4,485 $ 4,218 (0.8) % 6.3 % Operating expenses are summarized below (amounts in millions, except percentages): Year Ended December 31, As a Percentage of Net sales 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 Selling and marketing $ 483 $ 503 $ 483 10.9 % 11.2 % 11.5 % Research and development 453 447 444 10.2 % 10.0 % 10.5 % General and administrative 304 323 328 6.8 % 7.2 % 7.8 % Amortization of intangible assets 78 103 97 NM NM NM Acquisition and integration costs 23 22 8 NM NM NM Exit and restructuring costs 11 10 11 NM NM NM Total Operating expenses $ 1,352 $ 1,408 $ 1,371 30.4 % 31.4 % 32.5 % Consolidated Organic Net sales growth: Year Ended December 31, 2020 2019 Reported GAAP Consolidated Net sales growth (0.8) % 6.3 % Adjustments: Impact of foreign currency translations (1) 0.6 % 1.1 % Impact of acquisitions (2) (0.7) % (1.9) % Consolidated Organic Net sales growth (3) (0.9) % 5.5 % (1) Operating results reported in U.S. Dollars are affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Foreign currency translation impact represents the difference in results that are attributable to fluctuations in the currency exchange rates used to convert the results for businesses where the functional currency is not the U.S. Dollar. This impact is calculated by translating the current period results at the currency exchange rates used in the comparable prior year period, inclusive of the Companys foreign currency hedging program. 29 Table of Contents (2) For purposes of computing Organic Net sales growth, amounts directly attributable to business acquisitions are excluded for twelve months following their respective acquisition dates. (3) Consolidated Organic Net sales growth is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Measures section at the end of this item. 2020 compared to 2019 Total Net sales decreased $37 million or 0.8% compared with the prior year primarily due to customer demand declines resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic which had an overall negative effect on both of our segments and broadly across all regions. The negative effect of the pandemic was most pronounced within our AIT segment, particularly in the second quarter of 2020. AIT sales declines were partially offset by growth in our EVM segment, reflecting higher Services and software revenues, due in part from recent business acquisitions, as well as increased product purchases, particularly in the transportation and logistics and retail end markets, in response to the need to digitize and automate workflows in an increasingly on-demand economy. Excluding the effects of acquisitions and unfavorable currency changes, the decrease in Consolidated Organic Net sales was 0.9%. Gross margin decreased to 45.0% for the current year compared to 46.8% in the prior year. Gross margins were lower in both the AIT and EVM segments, reflecting unfavorable business mix, including larger deal size, and premium freight costs. These declines were partially offset by productivity gains within our services offerings and a partial recovery of 2019 Chinese import tariffs in the fourth quarter of 2020. Operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 were $1,352 million and $1,408 million, or 30.4% and 31.4% of Net sales, respectively. As a percentage of Net sales, operating costs continue to trend favorably. The decrease in Operating expenses over the prior year was primarily due to lower discretionary spending, employee incentive-based compensation, and intangible asset amortization expense. These reductions were partially offset by the inclusion of operating expenses associated with acquired businesses and costs associated with the diversification of the Companys product sourcing footprint. Operating income was $651 million for the current year compared to $692 million for the prior year. The decrease was primarily due to lower Net sales and Gross profit, partially offset by the benefit of lower Operating expenses. Net income decreased 7.4% compared to the prior year due to lower operating income and higher income tax expense, which were partially offset by a decrease in Other expenses, net, detailed as follows: The Companys effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019 were 10.0% and 9.0%, respectively. The Companys effective tax rate was higher in the current year as compared to the prior year, primarily due to higher benefits of uncertain tax positions in the prior year, partially offset by higher income in foreign jurisdictions with lower tax rates in the current year. Other expenses, net was $91 million for the current year, compared to $94 million for the prior year. The increase in interest rate swap and foreign exchange losses in the current year were more than offset by the favorable impacts of lower interest rates and average outstanding debt levels. Additionally, the prior year included $7 million of debt refinancing costs. Diluted earnings per share decreased to $9.35 as compared to $9.97 in the prior year primarily due to lower operating income and a higher effective income tax rate, which were partially offset by the benefit of lower weighted average shares outstanding. Results of Operations by Segment The following commentary should be read in conjunction with the financial results of each operating business segment as detailed in Note 20, Segment Information & Geographic Data in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. To the extent applicable, segment results exclude purchase accounting adjustments, amortization of intangible assets, acquisition and integration costs, impairment of goodwill and other intangibles, exit and restructuring costs, and product sourcing diversification costs. 30 Table of Contents Asset Intelligence & Tracking Segment (AIT) (amounts in millions, except percentages) Year Ended December 31, Percent Change 2020 vs 2019 Percent Change 2019 vs 2018 2020 2019 2018 Net sales: Tangible products $ 1,298 $ 1,347 $ 1,298 (3.6) % 3.8 % Services and software 128 132 125 (3.0) % 5.6 % Total Net sales 1,426 1,479 1,423 (3.6) % 3.9 % Gross profit 674 736 710 (8.4) % 3.7 % Gross margin 47.3 % 49.8 % 49.9 % (250) bps (10) bps Operating expenses 352 381 385 (7.6) % (1.0) % Operating income $ 322 $ 355 $ 325 (9.3) % 9.2 % AIT Organic Net sales growth: December 31, 2020 2019 AIT Reported GAAP Net sales growth (3.6) % 3.9 % Adjustments: Impact of foreign currency translations (1) 0.4 % 1.0 % Impact of acquisition (2) (0.5) % (2.7) % AIT Organic Net sales growth (3) (3.7) % 2.2 % (1) Operating results reported in U.S. Dollars are affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Foreign currency translation impact represents the difference in results that are attributable to fluctuations in the currency exchange rates used to convert the results for businesses where the functional currency is not the U.S. Dollar. This impact is calculated by translating the current period results at the currency exchange rates used in the comparable prior year period, inclusive of the Companys foreign currency hedging program. (2) For purposes of computing AIT Organic Net sales growth, amounts directly attributable to the Temptime acquisition are excluded for twelve months following its acquisition date. (3) AIT Organic Net sales growth is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Measures section at the end of this item. 2020 compared to 2019 Total Net sales for AIT decreased $53 million or 3.6% compared to the prior year primarily due to lower sales of printing products and supplies across most regions associated with COVID-19 induced customer demand declines, the impact of which was most pronounced in the second quarter of 2020, and unfavorable foreign currency changes. These declines were partially offset by growth associated with our Temptime acquisition. Excluding the impacts of the Temptime acquisition and foreign currency changes, AIT Organic Net Sales decline was 3.7%. Gross margin decreased to 47.3% in the current year compared to 49.8% for the prior year primarily due to unfavorable product mix, lower sales volumes, and premium freight costs, which were partially offset by recoveries of certain 2019 Chinese import tariffs in the fourth quarter of 2020. Operating income decreased 9.3% in the current year compared to the prior year. The decrease was due to lower Net sales and Gross profit, partially offset by the benefit of lower Operating expenses. 31 Table of Contents Enterprise Visibility & Mobility Segment (EVM) (amounts in millions, except percentages) Year Ended December 31, Percent Change 2020 vs 2019 Percent Change 2019 vs 2018 2020 2019 2018 Net sales: Tangible products $ 2,515 $ 2,560 $ 2,387 (1.8) % 7.2 % Services and software 514 446 408 15.2 % 9.3 % Total Net sales 3,029 3,006 2,795 0.8 % 7.5 % Gross profit 1,342 1,371 1,274 (2.1) % 7.6 % Gross margin 44.3 % 45.6 % 45.6 % (130) bps 0 bps Operating expenses 876 888 870 (1.4) % 2.1 % Operating income $ 466 $ 483 $ 404 (3.5) % 19.6 % EVM Organic Net sales growth: December 31, 2020 2019 EVM Reported GAAP Net sales growth 0.8 % 7.5 % Adjustments: Impact of foreign currency translations (1) 0.7 % 1.1 % Impact of acquisitions (2) (1.0) % (1.4) % EVM Organic Net sales growth (3) 0.5 % 7.2 % (1) Operating results reported in U.S. Dollars are affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Foreign currency translation impact represents the difference in results that are attributable to fluctuations in the currency exchange rates used to convert the results for businesses where the functional currency is not the U.S. Dollar. This impact is calculated by translating the current period results at the currency exchange rates used in the comparable prior year period, inclusive of the Companys foreign currency hedging program. (2) For purposes of computing Organic Net sales growth, amounts directly attributable to the Xplore Technologies Corporation (Xplore), Profitect, Cortexica and Reflexis acquisitions are excluded for twelve months following their respective acquisition dates. (3) EVM Organic Net sales growth is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Measures section at the end of this item. 2020 compared to 2019 Total Net sales for EVM increased $23 million or 0.8% compared to the prior year primarily due to higher sales of support services, mobile computing products, and our recent acquisitions. These increases were partially offset by lower sales of data capture products in most regions associated with continued COVID-19 induced customer demand declines, the impact of which was most pronounced in the second quarter of 2020, and unfavorable currency changes. Excluding the impacts of acquisitions and foreign currency changes, EVM Organic Net Sales growth was 0.5%. Gross margin decreased to 44.3% in the current year compared to 45.6% in the prior year, primarily due to unfavorable business mix, including larger deal size, and premium freight costs. These declines were partially offset by productivity gains within our support service offerings, recoveries of certain 2019 Chinese import tariffs in the fourth quarter of 2020, and the contributions from our higher margin acquisitions. Operating income for the current year decreased 3.5% due to lower Gross profit despite higher Net sales, partially offset by the benefit of lower Operating expenses. 32 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources The primary factors that influence our liquidity include the amount and timing of our revenues, cash collections from our customers, cash payments to our suppliers, capital expenditures, repatriation of foreign cash, acquisitions, and share repurchases. Management believes that our existing capital resources, inclusive of available borrowing capacity on debt and other financing facilities and funds generated from operations, are sufficient to meet anticipated capital requirements and service our indebtedness. The following table summarizes our cash flow activities for the years indicated (in millions): Year Ended December 31, $ Change 2020 vs 2019 $ Change 2019 vs 2018 2020 2019 2018 Cash flow provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 962 $ 685 $ 785 $ 277 $ (100) Investing activities (641) (335) (137) (306) (198) Financing activities (157) (365) (661) 208 296 Effect of exchange rates on cash balances (2) 1 (5) (3) 6 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents, including restricted cash $ 162 $ (14) $ (18) $ 176 $ 4 2020 vs. 2019 The change in our cash and cash equivalents balance during the current year is reflective of the following: The increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to the favorable timing of collections from customers, favorable timing of vendor payments, as well as lower cash payments for employee incentive compensation, income taxes and interest. These benefits were partially offset by higher inventory levels. Net cash used in investing activities included the Companys acquisition of Reflexis in the current year, which consisted of $548 million cash paid, net of cash acquired, as well as $32 million in cash paid for additional long-term investments. The prior years cash used in investing activities included cash paid for the acquisitions of Temptime, Profitect and Cortexica totaling $262 million, as well as $22 million in cash paid for long-term investments. Net cash used in financing activities during the current year included common stock repurchases of $200 million, net debt repayments of $40 million and net payments related to share-based compensation plans of $25 million, partially offset by the favorable timing of unremitted cash collections from the servicing of factored receivables of $109 million. Net cash used in financing activities during the prior year included to net debt repayments of $312 million, net payments related to share-based compensation plans of $32 million and common stock repurchases of $47 million. Company Debt The following table shows the carrying value of the Companys debt (in millions): December 31, 2020 2019 Term Loan A $ 917 $ 917 2020 Term Loan 100 Revolving Credit Facility 103 Receivables Financing Facilities 235 266 Total debt $ 1,252 $ 1,286 Less: Debt issuance costs (5) (6) Less: Unamortized discounts (2) (3) Less: Current portion of debt (364) (197) Total long-term debt $ 881 $ 1,080 Term Loan A The principal on Term Loan A is due in quarterly installments, with the next quarterly installment due in June 2021 and the majority due upon the August 9, 2024 maturity date. The Company may make prepayments, in whole or in part, without premium or penalty, and would be required to prepay certain outstanding amounts in the event of certain circumstances or transactions. As of December 31, 2020, the Term Loan A interest rate was 1.41%. Interest payments are made monthly and are subject to variable rates plus an applicable margin. 33 Table of Contents 2020 Term Loan In September 2020, the Company entered into a new $200 million term loan (2020 Term Loan), with the proceeds used to partly fund the acquisition of Reflexis. The Company repaid $100 million of principal during the fourth quarter of 2020, with the remaining principal due upon the August 31, 2021 maturity date. The Company may make additional prepayments, in whole or in part, without premium or penalty, and would be required to prepay certain outstanding amounts in the event of certain circumstances or transactions. As of December 31, 2020, the 2020 Term Loan interest rate was 2.25%. Interest payments are made monthly and are subject to a variable rate plus an applicable margin. Costs associated with issuing the 2020 Term Loan were approximately $1 million, which were capitalized and are being amortized over the term of the loan. Revolving Credit Facility The Revolving Credit Facility is available for working capital and other general business purposes, including letters of credit. As of December 31, 2020, the Company had letters of credit totaling $5 million, which reduced funds available for borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility from $1 billion to $995 million. No borrowings were outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility as of December 31, 2020. Upon borrowing, interest payments are made monthly and are subject to variable rates plus an applicable margin. The Revolving Credit Facility matures on August 9, 2024. Receivables Financing Facilities The Company has two Receivables Financing Facilities with financial institutions that have a combined total borrowing limit of up to $280 million. As collateral, the Company pledges perfected first-priority security interests in its U.S. domestically originated accounts receivable. The Company has accounted for transactions under its Receivables Financing Facilities as secured borrowings. The Companys first Receivables Financing Facility, which was originally entered into in December 2017 and was amended in May 2019, allows for borrowings of up to $180 million and will mature on March 29, 2021. The Companys second Receivable Financing Facility, which was entered into in May 2019 and was amended in May 2020, allows for borrowings of up to $100 million and will mature on May 17, 2021. As of December 31, 2020, the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets included $441 million of receivables that were pledged under the two Receivables Financing Facilities. As of December 31, 2020, $235 million had been borrowed, all of which was classified as current. Borrowings under the Receivables Financing Facilities bear interest at a variable rate plus an applicable margin. As of December 31, 2020, the Receivables Financing Facilities had an average interest rate of 1.04%. Interest is paid on these borrowings on a monthly basis. Uncommitted Short-Term Credit Facility The Company also entered into an uncommitted short-term credit facility (Uncommitted Facility) in August 2020. The Uncommitted Facility matures on August 26, 2021 and allows for borrowings of up to $20 million. Each borrowing must be repaid within 90 days, or earlier if the facility matures beforehand, and bears interest at a variable rate plus an applicable margin. Along with the Companys Revolving Credit Facility, the Uncommitted Facility is available for working capital and other general business purposes. As of December 31, 2020, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under the Uncommitted Facility. See Note 12, Long-Term Debt in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. Receivables Factoring The Company has multiple Receivables Factoring arrangements, pursuant to which certain receivables are sold to banks without recourse in exchange for cash. Transactions under the Receivables Factoring arrangements are accounted for as sales under Accounting Standards Codifications 860, Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets , with the sold receivables removed from the Companys balance sheet. Under these Receivables Factoring arrangements, the Company does not maintain any beneficial interest in the receivables sold. The banks purchase of eligible receivables is subject to a maximum amount of uncollected receivables. The Company services the receivables on behalf of the banks, but otherwise maintains no significant continuing involvement with respect to the receivables. Sale proceeds that are representative of the fair value of factored receivables, less a factoring fee, are reflected in Net cash provided by operating activities on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, while sale proceeds in excess of the fair value of factored receivables are reflected in Net cash used in financing activities on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. In 2020, the Company entered into a new Receivables Factoring arrangement with a bank, which allows for the factoring of up to 150 million of uncollected receivables originated from the EMEA and Asia-Pacific regions. This arrangement expands upon the Companys existing Receivables Factoring arrangements, which allow for the factoring of up to $125 million of uncollected receivables originated from the EMEA region. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019 there were a total of $70 million and $60 million, respectively, of uncollected receivables that had been sold and removed from the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets. 34 Table of Contents As servicer of sold receivables, the Company had $142 million and $33 million of obligations that were not yet remitted to banks as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. These obligations are included within Accrued liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, with changes in such obligations reflected within Net cash used in financing activities on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. See Note 19, Accounts Receivable Factoring in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. Share Repurchases On July 30, 2019, the Company announced that its Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program for up to an aggregate amount of $1 billion of its outstanding shares of common stock. The share repurchase program does not have a stated expiration date. The level of the Companys repurchases depends on a number of factors, including its financial condition, capital requirements, cash flows, results of operations, future business prospects and other factors its management may deem relevant. The timing, volume, and nature of repurchases are subject to market conditions, applicable securities laws and other factors and may be amended, suspended or discontinued at any time. Repurchases may be effected from time to time through open market purchases, including pursuant to a pre-set trading plan meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5-1(c) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. During the year ended December 31, 2020 the Company repurchased 948,740 shares of common stock for $200 million. During the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company repurchased 237,886 shares of common stock for $47 million. As of December 31, 2020, approximately $753 million of common stock remained authorized for repurchase under the program. Cash and Cash Equivalents Included in the Companys Cash and cash equivalents are amounts held by foreign subsidiaries. The Company had $37 million and $26 million of foreign cash and cash equivalents included in the Companys total cash positions of $168 million and $30 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Contractual Obligations Zebras contractual obligations as of December 31, 2020 were as follows (in millions): Payments due by period Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years Operating lease obligations (1) $ 186 $ 38 $ 62 $ 42 $ 44 Deferred compensation liability (2) 30 1 2 2 25 Debt principal payments 1,252 364 138 750 Interest payments (3) 105 34 54 17 Purchase obligations (4) 416 416 Total $ 1,989 $ 853 $ 256 $ 811 $ 69 (1) Includes leases of manufacturing facilities, distribution centers, sales and administrative offices, equipment and vehicles that are classified as operating leases. The contractual obligations above include future minimum payments, including payments for those periods where renewal options are reasonably certain to be exercised. (2) Includes payments related to obligations under our deferred compensation plan. The deferred compensation plan allows certain members of management and other highly-compensated employees to defer receipt of a portion of their compensation. The amount in More than 5 Years includes the obligations under the deferred compensation plan to be paid to participants who have not terminated employment, since we cannot estimate the timings of those terminations and withdrawals. (3) Includes payments related to interest on the Companys debt, as well as related settlements of interest rate swap agreements. These payments are estimated based on applicable interest rates and margins along with the balance of outstanding debt as of December 31, 2020. Future interest payments may increase or decrease based upon fluctuations in market rates and/or the Companys borrowing levels. (4) Purchase obligations are for purchases made in the normal course of business to meet operational requirements, primarily raw materials and finished goods. Purchase obligations included in the table above are based on quarterly forecasted component and manufacturing requirements and typically provide for fulfillment within agreed upon lead-times and/or commercially standard lead-times for products. The Company does not have contractual obligations related to take-or-pay arrangements. 35 Table of Contents Uncertain tax positions of $8 million have been excluded from the table above because we cannot reliably estimate the period of cash settlement, if any, with the respective taxing authorities. See Note 16, Income Taxes in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Management prepared the consolidated financial statements of the Company under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. The application of these principles requires the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions which affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements. We believe that our estimates, judgments, and assumptions are reasonable based upon available information. Our more significant estimates and assumptions include those related to the recognition and measurement of income tax assets and liabilities, development of fair value estimates when measuring the identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations, development of reporting unit fair values as part of our annual goodwill impairment testing, and measurement of variable consideration and allocation of transaction price to performance obligations in revenue transactions. See Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of these items as well as other accounting policies. New Accounting Pronouncements On January 1, 2020, the Company adopted Accounting Standards Update 2016-13, Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326) - Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments , which did not have a significant impact to the Companys consolidated financial statements. See Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information related to the Companys adoption of this new accounting pronouncement. Non-GAAP Measures The Company has provided reconciliations of the supplemental non-GAAP financial measures, as defined under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, presented herein to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. These supplemental non-GAAP financial measures Consolidated Organic Net sales growth, AIT Organic Net sales growth, and EVM Organic Net sales growth are presented because our management evaluates our financial results both including and excluding the effects of business acquisitions and foreign currency translation, as applicable. Management believes that the supplemental non-GAAP financial measures presented provide additional perspective and insights when analyzing the core operating performance of our business from period to period and trends in our historical operating results. These supplemental non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered superior to, as a substitute for, or as an alternative to, and should be considered in conjunction with the GAAP financial measures presented. 36 Table of Contents