Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Risk Factors and Business, contains forward-looking statements based on our managements beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and generally may be identified by terms such as believe, may, will, estimate, continue, anticipate, intend, could, would, project, plan, expect or the negative or plural of these words or similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including those risks, uncertainties and assumptions described in Part I, Item 1A (Risk Factors) of this report. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for our management to predict all risks, nor can we assess the effect of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this report may not occur and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. You should not rely on forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee that the future results, levels of activity, performance or events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur. Moreover, except as required by law, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking statements, and we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason after the date of this report to conform these statements to actual results or to changes in our expectations. 4 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Mission Our mission is to build the worlds largest, most trusted and vibrant real estate marketplace. Overview Zillow Group, Inc. operates the leading real estate and home-related information marketplaces on mobile and the Web, with a complementary portfolio of brands and products to help people find vital information about homes and connect with local professionals. Zillow Groups brands focus on all stages of the home lifecycle: renting, buying, selling, financing and home improvement. The Zillow Group portfolio of consumer brands includes real estate and rental marketplaces Zillow, Trulia, StreetEasy and HotPads. In addition, Zillow Group provides advertising services to tens of thousands of real estate agents and rental and mortgage professionals, helping maximize business opportunities and connect to millions of consumers. We also own and operate a number of brands that offer technology solutions to real estate, rental and mortgage professionals, including DotLoop, Mortech, Diverse Solutions and Retsly. Zillow was incorporated as a Washington corporation in December 2004, and we launched the initial version of our website, Zillow.com, in February 2006. Zillow Group was incorporated as a Washington corporation in July 2014 in connection with our acquisition of Trulia. Upon the closing of the Trulia acquisition in February 2015, each of Zillow and Trulia became wholly owned subsidiaries of Zillow Group. Our living database of more than 110 million U.S. homeshomes for sale, homes for rent and homes not currently on the marketattracts an active and vibrant community of users. Individuals and businesses that use Zillow Groups mobile applications and websites have updated information on more than 60 million homes and added more than 370 million home photos, creating exclusive home profiles not available anywhere else. These profiles include detailed information about homes, including property facts, listing information and purchase and sale data. We provide this information to our users where, when and how they want it, through our industry-leading mobile applications that enable consumers to access our information when they are curbside, viewing homes, and through our websites. Using complex, proprietary automated valuation models, we provide current home value estimates, or Zestimates, and current rental price estimates, or Rent Zestimates, on more than 100 million U.S. homes. Consumers increasingly are turning to the Internet and mobile devices for real estate information. For the three months ended December 31, 2015, 123.7 million average monthly unique users visited Zillow Groups mobile applications and websites, representing year-over-year growth of 61%. For additional information regarding key growth drivers, see Key Growth Drivers in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. More than 65% of Zillows traffic now comes from a mobile device; on weekends its more than 70%. We operate the most popular suite of mobile real estate applications across all major mobile platforms. For example, on our flagship Zillow brand, during December 2015, more than 440 million homes were viewed on Zillow on a mobile device, or 165 homes per second. We monetize our marketplace business on mobile in the same way we do on our web platform. Real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals are a critical part of home-related marketplaces. We have created a trusted and transparent marketplace where consumers can search and read reviews on local real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals and contact those professionals on their own terms. Our home-related marketplaces benefit from network effects. As more consumers come to our mobile applications and websites to use our products and services, more real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals contribute content to distinguish themselves, thereby making our marketplaces more useful and attracting additional consumers. 5 Table of Contents Our revenue has grown significantly since our initial website launch in 2006. For the year ended December 31, 2015, we generated revenue of $644.7 million, as compared to $325.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, an increase of 98%. We generate revenue from the sale of advertising services and our suite of tools to businesses and professionals primarily associated with the real estate, rental and mortgage industries. These professionals include local real estate and rental professionals, mortgage professionals and brand advertisers. Our two revenue categories are marketplace revenue and display revenue. Marketplace revenue for the year ended December 31, 2015 consisted of real estate, mortgages, and Market Leader revenue. Real estate revenue primarily includes revenue from the sale of advertising services and a suite of tools to real estate professionals, as well as revenue generated by Zillow Group Rentals, which includes our rentals marketplace and suite of tools for rental professionals. Mortgages revenue primarily includes advertising sold to mortgage lenders and other mortgage professionals, as well as revenue generated by Mortech, which provides subscription-based mortgage software solutions, including a product and pricing engine and lead management platform. Market Leader revenue primarily includes revenue from the sale of a comprehensive premium software-as-a-service based marketing product typically sold to real estate professionals as a bundle of products under a fixed fee subscription. Market Leader revenue is included in our results of operations from February 17, 2015 through the date of divestiture of September 30, 2015. Display revenue primarily consists of graphical mobile and web advertising sold on a cost per thousand impressions (CPM) or cost-per-click (CPC) basis to advertisers promoting their brands on our mobile applications and websites and our partner websites. Impressions are delivered when a sold advertisement appears on pages viewed by users of our mobile applications and websites. Acquisition of Trulia, Inc. Effective February 17, 2015, pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of July 28, 2014 (the Merger Agreement) by and among Zillow, Inc. (Zillow), Zillow Group, and Trulia, Inc. (Trulia), Zillow Group acquired Trulia, and Zillow and Trulia became wholly owned subsidiaries of Zillow Group. Upon completion of the acquisition, each outstanding share of Class A common stock of Zillow was converted into the right to receive one share of fully paid and nonassessable Class A common stock of Zillow Group, each outstanding share of Class B common stock of Zillow was converted into the right to receive one share of fully paid and nonassessable Class B common stock of Zillow Group, and each outstanding share of Trulia common stock was converted into the right to receive 0.444 of a share of fully paid and nonassessable Class A Common Stock of Zillow Group. The total purchase price of Trulia was approximately $2.0 billion. We have included Trulias results of operations prospectively after February 17, 2015, the date of acquisition. For additional information regarding the transaction with Trulia, see Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements. On February 17, 2015, in connection with the acquisition, Zillow Group undertook a restructuring plan that resulted in a total workforce reduction of nearly 350 employees, primarily to eliminate overlapping positions in the sales and marketing functions related to Trulias workforce at its Bellevue, Denver, New York and San Francisco locations. The restructuring plan is a result of the integration of Trulias business and operations with and into Zillow Groups business. Employees directly affected by the restructuring plan were provided with severance payments, stock vesting acceleration and outplacement assistance. For additional information regarding the restructuring, see Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements. 6 Table of Contents Industry Dynamics The Importance of Homes Homes are the center of peoples lives, the focus of some of their most important decisions and often their most valuable assets. In addition to whether to buy, sell or rent, consumers make many other important home-related decisions throughout their lifetimes, including decisions relating to refinancing or home equity loans, home maintenance and home improvement. Residential real estate is one of the largest sectors of the U.S. economy and supports millions of professionals that provide services related to home purchases and sales, rentals, home financings, and home maintenance and improvement. Large Market Opportunities Based on external and internal assessments, we believe our current addressable markets include the following: Purchase and Sale Sales of approximately 5.3 million existing and 490 thousand new homes in the United States in 2015 had an aggregate transaction value of approximately $1.6 trillion, according to data published in 2015 by the U.S. Census Bureau and in 2016 by the National Association of REALTORS . There are approximately 1.9 million licensed real estate professionals in the United States, according to data published in 2012, 2013 and 2014 by the Association of Real Estate License Law Officials. In an effort to acquire new client relationships and sell homes, U.S. real estate agents and brokers spent an estimated $8.9 billion on residential advertising in 2015, according to a forecast from Borrell Associates released in 2016. In addition, U.S. real estate developers spent an estimated $1.7 billion on residential advertising in 2015, also according to a forecast from Borrell Associates released in 2016. In the United States, there are 205 million people residing in owner-occupied housing, according to data published by the U.S. Census Bureau in November 2015. Approximately 29% of movers in 2015, or 10.5 million people, were homeowners, according to the U.S. Census Bureau migration data published in November 2015. Rentals In the third quarter of 2015, there were approximately 46.0 million rental housing units in the United States, with a national vacancy rate of 7.3%, according to data published by the U.S. Census Bureau in October 2015. According to data published by the U.S. Census Bureau from the American Housing Survey and the Current Population Survey/Housing Vacancy Survey, approximately: 9.0% of rental units (4.1 million) are located in buildings with 50 or more units; 8.5% of rental units (3.9 million) are located in buildings with 20 to 49 units; 12.0% of rental units (5.5 million) are located in buildings with 10 to 19 units; 12.6% of rental units (5.8 million) are located in buildings with 5 to 9 units; 19.1% of rental units (8.8 million) are located in small multi-family structures of 2-4 units; 38.8% of rental units (17.8 million) are 1-unit structures. According to a forecast from Borrell Associates released in 2016, U.S. rental property managers spent an estimated $3.5 billion on advertising in 2015, which excludes lease concessions. In the United States, there are 107.6 million people residing in rental housing units, according to data published by the U.S. Census Bureau in 2015. Approximately 71% of movers in 2015, or 25.9 million people, were renters, according to the U.S. Census Bureau migration data published in November 2015. Home Financing According to a forecast from the Mortgage Bankers Association published in January 2016, approximately $1.5 trillion in U.S. residential mortgage originations occurred in 2015. U.S. residential mortgage providers spent approximately $4.4 billion in 2015 marketing their services and loan products to mortgage borrowers, according to a forecast from Borrell Associates released in 2016. 7 Table of Contents Home Maintenance and Improvement Spending on home improvements and repairs totaled $298 billion in 2013, according to the Joint Center for Housing Studies of Harvard University in a January 2015 report. As noted in the report, 82% of home improvement and repair spending was on owner-occupied homes, with the remainder on rental units. Spending on advertising by the home improvement industry was approximately $10.9 billion in 2014, according to data presented in industry research reports from IBISWorld Inc. released in 2014. Highly Fragmented, Local and Complex Market The market for residential real estate transactions and home-related services is highly fragmented, local and complex. Each home has unique characteristics, including location, value, size, style, age and condition. Each consumer approaches home-related transactions with a personal set of objectives, priorities and values. Real estate agents generally operate in local markets as independent contractors with different experiences and skills. These conditions create challenges for consumers and real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals alike. Consumers are challenged to find information about homes and to find real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals who fit their individual needs. Real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals are challenged to efficiently advertise their services and identify new clients, and to measure the effectiveness of their marketing efforts. Absence of Consumer Orientation Historically, consumers had minimal access to comprehensive and objective residential real estate data, even though many home-related decisions are extraordinarily information-intensive. While real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals had some data, consumers did not have free, independent and easy access to data. Even when accessible, the data were difficult to interpret and analyze. Increasing Role of Mobile Technologies and the Internet Consumers are increasingly turning to mobile devices and the Internet to access real estate information. With the widespread adoption of mobile and location-based technologies, consumers increasingly expect home-related information to be available on their mobile devices where, when and how they want it. More than 65% of Zillows traffic now comes from a mobile device; on weekends its more than 70%. We believe that the technological platform shift from desktop computers to mobile devices benefits technology leaders like Zillow Group that are quick to innovate. Competitive Advantages We believe we have the following competitive advantages: Powerful Brand and Scale. We have established a powerful brand identity that includes a portfolio of the largest and most vibrant brands, and we have built a large user community. The majority of our traffic comes direct, not dependent on search engines, with demonstrated consumer intent to visit Zillow Groups brands. During the three months ended December 31, 2015, our traffic grew to 123.7 million average monthly unique users, an increase of 61% compared to the three months ended December 31, 2014. For additional information regarding key growth drivers, see Key Growth Drivers in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Inimitable Database of Homes. Our living database of homes is the result of years of substantial investment, sophisticated economic and statistical analysis, complex data aggregation and millions of user contributions. Our dynamic and comprehensive living database includes detailed information on more than 110 million U.S. homes, and includes homes for sale, for rent and recently sold, as well as properties not currently on the market. This database is central to the value we provide to consumers and real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals. It contains extensive 8 Table of Contents information that users can search, through an easy-to-use interface, to identify, analyze and compare homes. Our database is relevant to a broad range of users, including buyers, sellers, renters, homeowners, real estate agents and other real estate professionals. It includes information such as: Property facts: Zestimate and its corresponding value range, number of bedrooms, number of bathrooms, square footage, lot size, assessed tax value and property type such as single-family, condominium, apartment, multifamily, manufactured home or land. Listing information: price, price history and reductions, dollars per square foot, days on the market, listing type (such as for sale by agent, for sale by owner, pre-market inventory, which includes foreclosure, pre-foreclosure, Coming Soon and Make Me Move listings, new construction and rental homes), open houses, property photos and estimated monthly mortgage payment. Purchase and sale data: prior sales information and recent sales nearby. We synthesize data from hundreds of automated feeds, representing information from tens of thousands of public and private sources. Applying extensive computer analytics to the data, we transform it into information that is accessible, understandable and useful. We refer to the database as living because the information is continually updated by the combination of our proprietary algorithms, synthesis of third-party data from hundreds of sources, and through improvements by us and, importantly, by our community of users. User-generated content from owners, agents and others enriches our database with photos and additional property information. Individuals and businesses that use Zillows mobile applications and websites have updated information on more than 60 million homes in our database and added more than 370 million home photos, creating exclusive home profiles not available anywhere else. Our inimitable database enables us to create content, products and services not available anywhere else, and attracts an active, vibrant community of users. As of December 31, 2015, we had published more than 1.8 million reviews, including more than 1.5 million reviews of local real estate agents and more than 210,000 reviews of mortgage professionals submitted by our users on Zillow. In addition, our users had submitted more than one million questions and answers in our discussion forum, Zillow Advice. Zillow Advice and Trulia Voices allow consumers to ask questions of real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals and other consumers and quickly learn more about homes and real estate topics of interest. In particular, many of our dedicated active contributors devote substantial time sharing their expertise about Zillow and the real estate market on Zillow Advice and Trulia Voices. Real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals who participate in Zillow Advice and Trulia Voices play a key role in helping to educate consumers, and benefit from exposure to consumers and resulting referrals. Zestimates and Rent Zestimates. We have developed industry-leading automated home valuation models that use advanced statistical methods and complex, proprietary algorithms. We use these models to provide current home value estimates, or Zestimates, and current rental price estimates, or Rent Zestimates, on more than 100 million U.S. homes. Based on our Zestimates, we produce Zillow Home Value Indexes at the neighborhood, zip code, city, metropolitan statistical area, county and national levels. Our Zillow Home Value Indexes have been cited by government entities such as the Federal Reserve Bank and the Congressional Oversight Panel, university studies and respected national publications. For historical comparisons, we provide up to 15 years of Zestimate history on each home and valuable information about property and real estate market trends. Our Zestimates, Rent Zestimates and Zillow Home Value Indexes allow consumers to evaluate homes and neighborhoods, and to easily evaluate historical trends, as they contemplate critical home-related decisions. Mobile Leadership and Monetization. Shopping for a home is a far more meaningful consumer experience when it occurs curbside, untethered and on location, so we have developed and operate the most popular suite of mobile real estate applications across all major platforms. For example, on our 9 Table of Contents flagship Zillow brand, during December 2015, more than 440 million homes, or 165 homes per second, were viewed on Zillow on a mobile device. More than 65% of Zillows traffic now comes from a mobile device; on weekends its more than 70%. Zillow Groups suite of mobile applications includes 47 distinct real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement applications that enable people to access and analyze information where, when and how they want it. We monetize our marketplace business on our mobile platform in the same way we do on our web platform. Independent Market Positions and Consumer Focus. Zillow Group has been built independent of any real estate industry group. We maintain an unwavering commitment to giving consumers free access to as much useful information as possible. We provide unbiased information, products and services, empowering consumers to make informed decisions about homes and the residential real estate market. We believe our independence enables us to create compelling products and services with broad consumer appeal. Multiple Robust Home-Related Marketplaces. We have created trusted and transparent marketplaces in real estate, rentals, mortgages and home improvement where consumers can identify and connect with local professionals that are best suited to meet their needs. Our living database of homes provides a foundation on which we can build new consumer and professional marketplaces in other home-related categories. Technology Solutions for Professionals. We offer a suite of marketing and technology solutions to help real estate, rental and mortgage professionals grow their businesses and personal brands, including agent-only features on our mobile real estate applications. Consumer-Oriented Mortgage Marketplace. Unlike other sources of mortgage rate quotes, consumers can anonymously submit mortgage loan information requests and receive an unlimited number of personalized mortgage quotes directly from hundreds of consumer-rated lenders. Consumers can then choose to contact those lenders at their discretion. Because we operate this marketplace as part of our real estate home shopping experience, we can efficiently attract motivated users to the marketplace and prioritize the consumers experience. For the year ended December 31, 2015, there were approximately 46.8 million mortgage loan information requests submitted by consumers. Personalized Experience. We present consumers and real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals with many opportunities to personalize their Zillow Group experience, leading to more informed home shopping and financing decisions. Users can save favorite homes on Zillow Groups mobile applications and websites and receive monthly email updates on changes in those homes values, listing status, price changes and other data. Users also can customize saved searches for any neighborhood or zip code and receive daily email updates on new homes listed for sale, for rent, or price changes for existing listed homes. Once a favorite home or search parameters are saved on Zillow Groups mobile applications and websites, a consumer or professional may access these personalized options every time they visit Zillow Group through a mobile device or on our websites, personalizing a Zillow Group experience unique to them. Proven Management Team . We believe the broad experience and depth of our management team are distinct competitive advantages in the complex and evolving industry in which we compete. The Zillow Group management team has an extensive history building successful consumer Internet companies. In particular, we believe that the shared experience of our executives, many who held similar positions together at Expedia, Inc., provides our management team with unique cohesion and insight. Growth Strategies Our growth strategies are: Focus on Consumers. Maintain our unwavering focus on consumers and leverage our industry independence to enhance existing products and services and develop new offerings with broad consumer appeal. 10 Table of Contents Enhance Our Living Database. Enhance the information in our database of homes, and use it as the foundation for new analyses, insights and tools to inform consumers throughout the home ownership lifecycle. Leverage Our Mobile Leadership. Innovate and expand our offerings for mobile devices, continue to optimize for mobile web and launch more applications to extend our brand and products across additional mobile platforms. Deepen and Strengthen and Expand Our Marketplaces. Deepen and strengthen our marketplaces by creating new opportunities for high-quality consumer-initiated connections with real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals when consumers want their services. Our living database of homes provides a foundation on which we can build new consumer and professional marketplaces in other home-related categories. Efficiently Increase Brand Awareness. Expand targeted advertising programs, public relations, social media and content distribution to efficiently increase brand awareness. Expand Our Platform. Expand our platform beyond advertising services for real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals by developing additional marketing and business technology solutions to help those professionals manage and grow their businesses and personal brands. Optimize Growth Opportunities for Premier Agents. Optimize growth opportunities for Premier Agents participating in our marketplaces through development of a broad variety of marketing and business technology solutions and other enhanced services. Leverage Our Sales Force. Leverage our sales forces expertise with new advertising and technology offerings. Pursue Strategic Opportunities. Pursue strategic opportunities, including commercial relationships and acquisitions, to strengthen our market position, enhance our capabilities and accelerate our growth. For example, our February 2015 acquisition of Trulia aligns with our growth strategies, including focusing on consumers and deepening, strengthening, and expanding our marketplaces. With the addition of Trulia, Zillow Group offers more real estate tools and services that empower consumers and drive more business for real estate professionals. Advertising Products and Services We provide advertising products and services for real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals that enable them to create and promote useful content for consumers. Marketplace Advertising Premier Agent Program Zillow Groups Premier Agent program offers a suite of marketing and business technology solutions to help real estate agents grow their businesses and personal brands. The Premier Agent program allows agents to select products and services that they can tailor to meet their business and advertising needs. The program has three tiers of participation including Premier Platinum, our flagship product, as well as Premier Gold and Premier Silver, to meet different marketing and business needs of a broad range of agents. All tiers of Premier Agents receive access to a dashboard portal on our website that provides individualized program performance analytics, as well as our personalized website service, and our free customer relationship management, or CRM, tool that captures detailed information about each contact made with a Premier Agent through our mobile and web platforms. Our Premier Gold product also includes featured listings whereby the agents listings will appear at the top of search results on our mobile and web platforms. Our Premier Platinum product includes the dashboard portal on our website, our personalized website service, our CRM tool, featured listings, and inclusion on our buyers agent list, whereby the agent appears as 11 Table of Contents the agent to contact for listings in the purchased zip code. Our multi-tiered Premier Agent advertising program, along with our DotLoop collaboration platform, Diverse Solutions agent website services, our CRM tools, and our rentals syndication tool, extend our platform beyond just marketing services for real estate agents to a platform that also includes other types of trade services and tools. Trulia Real Estate Products Our Trulia real estate products are primarily sold on a fixed fee subscription basis, and include Trulia Local Ads, Trulia Mobile Ads, Trulia Pro with featured listings and Trulia Seller Ads. Prior to the August 2015 integration of certain of Zillows and Trulias advertising products, Trulia Local Ads and Trulia Mobile Ads enabled real estate professionals to promote themselves on Trulias search results pages and property details pages for a local market area. Real estate professionals purchased subscriptions to these products based upon their specified market share for a city or zip code, at a fixed monthly price, for periods ranging from one month to one year, with pricing depending on demand, location, and the percentage of market share purchased. Following the August 2015 agent advertising product integration, Trulia Local Ads and Trulia Mobile Ads products are no longer sold by Zillow Group. Trulias featured listings product allows real estate professionals to receive prominent placement of their listings in Trulias search results. Real estate professionals sign up for new subscriptions to this product at a fixed monthly price for periods that generally range from six months to 12 months. Trulia Seller Ads enable real estate professionals to generate leads from consumers interested in selling their homes. Mortgages In our mortgages marketplace, consumers request free, personalized quotes in response to their submission of limited anonymous data, such as specific loan amount, zip code, purchase price or estimated home value, and credit score. For the year ended December 31, 2015, there were approximately 46.8 million mortgage loan information requests submitted by consumers. Consumers decide if and when to contact the mortgage professionals who provide quotes. User-generated ratings and reviews of mortgage professionals are provided as a powerful tool to help consumers shop for their loans. Our custom mortgage quote service is operated by our wholly owned subsidiary, Zillow Group Mortgages, Inc., a licensed mortgage broker, pursuant to a support services agreement. Zillow Group Rentals Zillow Group continues to develop its rental marketplace on mobile and Web. Zillow Group Rentals is a marketplace for consumers and suite of tools for rental professionals, and is the largest rental network on the Web. Zillow Group Rentals includes listing distribution across Zillow, Trulia and HotPads, reaching millions of rental shoppers each month. Zillow Rent Connect advertisers gain access to the leading technology platform that connects rental properties with consumer contacts. Display Advertising Our display advertising primarily consists of graphical mobile and web advertising sold on a CPM basis. We offer customers display advertising opportunities on our mobile applications through display ads that are optimized for the mobile experience, on our home page, and on individual web pages, through graphical displays and text links. Information Products and Services We provide consumers with information products and services to enable them to make intelligent decisions about homes. 12 Table of Contents Zestimates and Rent Zestimates Our Zestimate and Rent Zestimate valuations are computed using complex, proprietary algorithms we have developed and refined through years of statistical analysis and technological development. A Zestimate is our estimated current market value of a home. We generate Zestimates using a variety of information, including: Physical attributes: location, lot size, square footage, number of bedrooms and bathrooms and many other details. Tax assessments: property tax information, actual property taxes paid, exceptions to tax assessments and other information provided in the tax assessors records. Prior and current transactions: actual sale prices over time of the home itself and comparable recent sales of nearby homes. We use proprietary automated valuation models that apply advanced algorithms to analyze our data to identify relationships within a specific geographic area between home-related data and actual sales prices. Home characteristics, such as square footage, location or the number of bathrooms, are given different weights according to their influence on home sale prices in each specific geographic area over a specific period of time, resulting in a set of valuation rules, or models, that are applied to generate each homes Zestimate. To improve the accuracy of our Zestimates, our algorithms automatically remove or reconcile data that would otherwise inappropriately skew the valuation rules. In addition, our algorithms will automatically generate a new set of valuation rules based on the constantly changing universe of data included in our database. This allows us to provide timely home value information on a massive scale, updated three times a week. We publicly disclose the accuracy of our Zestimates to further empower consumers in assessing a homes value. The accuracy may be impacted by a variety of factors, including the amount of data about homes we have for a particular geographic area. A Rent Zestimate is our estimated current monthly rental price of a home, computed using similar automated valuation models we have designed to address the unique attributes of a rental home. We estimate rental prices on more than 100 million homes, including apartments, single-family homes, condominiums and townhomes. Zillow Digs Zillow Digs is the hub for home improvement and design on Zillow. Consumers can browse millions of design ideas for every room, budget and style. Product and paint tags identify the elements in the space, giving consumers the information to recreate the look of the room in their own space. Each product tag provides retailer information, pricing and the link to purchase the item. Additionally, Zillow Digs Estimates give consumers the estimated cost of thousands of real bathrooms and kitchens in Zillow Digs ever-increasing portfolio of photos and are computed using Zillows proprietary algorithm, which includes real-world data from local contractors such as size, materials, finish level, and regional labor and material rates. 13 Table of Contents Rich, Searchable Home-Related Data and Analysis We provide consumers and real estate professionals with a rich set of home-related information. Through our mobile applications and websites, users can access detailed information about homes, including: Value Information Zestimate Prior sale prices Rent Zestimate Historical Zestimate values For sale price Historical Rent Zestimate values Estimated mortgage payment Zillow Home Value Index Rental price Zillow Home Value Index Forecasts Make Me Move price Tax-assessed value Easy links to county assessor records Property taxes paid Regional 12 month home value forecast Price per square foot Regional foreclosure statistics Home Details Bedrooms Number of stories Bathrooms Number of units in building Square footage Finished basement Lot size Cooling system Year built Heating system Property type Heat source County Fireplace Parcel number Exterior material Legal description Parking type Construction quality Garage size Neighborhood Information School district School ratings Elementary school Walkability Middle school Transit access High school Crime data For Sale Listing Details Price Price reductions Listing agent information Days on Zillow or Trulia Listing brokerage information MLS number Link to listing source Foreclosure stage and type Property type and property features Home overview description Open house dates and times Neighborhood name and description Virtual tour Coming Soon on market date Rental Listing Details Building name and number of stories Property manager Rent amount and lease terms Parking availability Application and deposit fees Utilities and amenities Historical rental listings Consumers and real estate professionals can update property information by, for example, adding home photos and personalized information regarding the neighborhood or school district, creating exclusive home profiles not available anywhere else. Our map-based user interface enables our users to search, navigate and zoom to areas of interest and find and compare home information quickly and efficiently from a variety of different perspectives across homes, neighborhoods, cities, counties and other geographical regions. Our consumer search experience supports complex search queries and filters across our data set of homes, allowing consumers to customize their searches and gain actionable insights. 14 Table of Contents Our team of economists and statisticians generates unbiased local and national real estate data and analysis on 908 metropolitan areas and approximately 11,200 individual neighborhoods that we provide to consumers and real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals at no cost. This gives our users access to local market trends and data, such as home price cuts, list to sale price ratio and foreclosure data that was historically not easily obtained, if available at all. Users can compare these metrics across neighborhoods and different time periods using our real-time charting and filtering. For Sale and Rental Listings We provide comprehensive for sale and rental listings through relationships with real estate brokerages, real estate listings aggregators, multiple listing services, apartment management companies, home builders and other third parties. In addition, we provide consumers with access to exclusive home listings, such as our Make Me Move listings, which are a homeowners posted price at which they would be willing to move. We also show listings that may not be available on other sources, including for sale by owner, pre-market inventory, including our Coming Soon listings, and rental listings. Real estate agents and landlords may feature and gain more exposure for their listings through our advertising products. Historically, a substantial portion of the listings displayed on our mobile applications and websites was provided to us by a single real estate listing aggregator pursuant to platform services agreements. These listings provided revenue-generating opportunities as impressions were delivered through our mobile applications and websites. Pursuant to agreements with the real estate listing aggregator, the platform services agreements expired on April 7, 2015. Through various data acquisition efforts, including the January 2015 launch of the Zillow Data Dashboard, a new listing management and reporting platform that allows Multiple Listing Services, or MLSs, and brokers to provide listings directly to Zillow Group, we have made significant progress in replacing the listings previously provided under the platform services agreements. Since January 2015, nearly 400 MLSs have signed agreements to send listings directly to Zillow and Trulia. Marketplace of Real Estate Agents We present consumers with ratings and contact information for the listing agent and local buyers agents alongside home profiles and listings for homes to assist them in evaluating and selecting the real estate agent best suited for them. We enhance this offering by providing an online professional directory for consumers to search and contact real estate professionals that they might wish to engage. Our directory includes rich profiles of real estate professionals, including more than 1.8 million ratings and reviews provided by our users, allowing consumers to evaluate these agents based on a number of criteria, including neighborhood specialization, number of listings and number of contributions to Zillow Advice and Trulia Voices. Marketplace of Mortgage Professionals In our mortgages marketplace, consumers can anonymously request free, personalized mortgage quotes from consumer-rated and -reviewed mortgage professionals. Consumers can then choose to contact those mortgage professionals at their discretion. For the year ended December 31, 2015, there were approximately 46.8 million mortgage loan information requests submitted by consumers. As of December 31, 2015, we had published more than 210,000 reviews of mortgage professionals submitted by our users. Home-Related Advice and Discussions Consumers have many questions and often seek advice during various stages of their home-ownership lifecycle. The Zillow Advice section of our Zillow.com website and Trulia Voices section of our Trulia.com website capture questions and discussion topics from our users, both consumers and real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals. This allows our consumers to ask questions of other consumers and real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals and quickly learn more about relevant topics. Our 15 Table of Contents users have submitted more than one million questions and answers to Zillow Advice as of December 31, 2015. Zillow Advice and Trulia Voices also provide real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals with an opportunity to help educate consumers and demonstrate their local expertise. These discussions and content are also indexed and searchable by geography and other custom parameters, allowing users to quickly find the information they seek. Email updates are used to provide ongoing monitoring and delivery of posts related to topics of interest. Mobile Access We operate the most popular suite of mobile real estate applications across all major mobile platforms. Our mobile real estate applications provide consumers and real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals with location-based access to many of our products and services, including Zestimates, Rent Zestimates, for sale and rental listings and extensive home-related data. Through our mobile applications, for example, a consumer standing curbside at a home for sale can learn about the homes for-sale price, Zestimate, number of bedrooms, square footage and past sales, as well as similar information about surrounding homes. The consumer can call a real estate professional through our mobile applications to get more information or schedule a showing. For example, on our flagship Zillow brand, during December 2015, more than 440 million homes were viewed on Zillow on a mobile device, which equates to 165 homes per second. Marketing We believe Zillow Group has considerable opportunity to increase brand awareness and grow traffic through product development, targeted advertising programs and strategic partnerships. As such, we selectively advertise to consumers and professionals in various online and offline channels that have tested well for us and pursue strategic partnerships that drive traffic and brand awareness for Zillow Group. At Zillow Group, marketing begins with product development, which then becomes amplified by effective brand advertising and marketing communications. We create immersive consumer products that people want to use frequently, talk about and share. The engaging nature of our products enables us to execute compelling advertising campaigns integrated with our robust and viral communications program, which together comprise the primary drivers of our brand awareness and traffic acquisition efforts. For example, for our flagship Zillow brand, we launched our consumer brand with communications at the core of our marketing strategy. Next, after years of vigorous field testing, we began large-scale national advertising in early 2013 on television and across other complementary channels, which has continued through the year ended December 31, 2015. In part as a result of these advertising efforts, our traffic has grown to 123.7 million average monthly unique users for the three months ended December 31, 2015, an increase of 61% compared to the three months ended December 31, 2014. The majority of our traffic and brand awareness comes direct, not dependent on search engines, with demonstrated consumer intent to visit the Zillow Group brands. The communications team for our flagship Zillow brand includes former print and broadcast journalists who have established Zillow Group as an authoritative source for information on a broad range of home and real estate-related subjects. A typical week includes commentary from our real estate experts across dozens of national print and broadcast media outlets, guest opinion pieces or blog posts by our chief economist, and wide-ranging national and local media coverage of Zillow Group products, listings, data and consumer tips. We also produce considerable home and real estate-related content on Zillow Blog and Trulias Blog that is syndicated across dozens of prominent media sites. Zillow Blog and Trulias Blog content ranges from real estate market trends, to home financing tips, to celebrity real estate listings. We focus substantial public relations effort around the marketing of our Zillow Real Estate Market Reports, which are in-depth reports produced by our economics and analytics bureau for 794 U.S. markets. Data is released on a monthly and quarterly basis, and the data is widely used by government entities such as the Federal Reserve and Congressional Oversight Panel, as well as regularly featured in respected media outlets such as the 16 Table of Contents Wall Street Journal , New York Times , Bloomberg , Reuters and across numerous national network and cable news shows including CNBC, CNN, Fox News and Bloomberg. We believe the considerable effort we have spent on public relations and social media has allowed us to build large and credible brands. Our living database of homes creates significant opportunities for home-ownership lifecycle marketing. A typical person will at various times in life be a renter, buyer, homeowner, remodeler, mortgage refinancer or seller, and this presents opportunities to communicate with consumers over many years before, during and after a transaction. We actively communicate with our users through email and social media channels. Sales, Consumer Care and Customer Support Our sales teams are responsible for generating advertising customers across our mobile applications and websites. Our largest sales teams sell our Premier Agent products to real estate agents, and are located in Seattle, Washington, Denver, Colorado, and Irvine, California. We also have a sales team in Seattle, Washington that sells our rental products to rental professionals. In addition, we have sales teams in Seattle, Washington, New York, New York and Lincoln, Nebraska that support sales in our mortgage marketplaces and display advertising. We attract customers through a combination of outbound calling and inbound customer requests generated from our websites and event marketing activities. We also maintain a field sales team in San Francisco, California, New York, New York, Chicago, Illinois, and Detroit, Michigan, to specifically target larger advertising customers in the real estate and related content categories, such as real estate brokerages, home builders, lenders and home service providers, as well as advertisers in the telecommunications, automotive, insurance and other industries. We believe that consumer care and customer support are important to our success. Our consumer care and customer support teams are located in Seattle, Washington, and Denver, Colorado. Our customer support team responds to commercial and technical issues from our advertisers, and our consumer care team responds to consumer issues from our user community. The Zillow Advice and Trulia Voices forums augment our consumer care by enabling consumers to obtain answers to questions from our employees and other members of our user community, including real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals. Technology and Infrastructure Zillow Group is a data- and technology-driven company. Our technical infrastructure, mobile applications and websites are built to provide consumers and real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals with access to rich real estate data and powerful online tools to help them accomplish their home-related goals. Many of our services are available through real-time web-based application programming interfaces that allow our information to be easily integrated into third-party websites. We provide HTML and JavaScript-based widgets to allow easy integration of Zillow Group information onto other websites, with little custom programming. Our technology platform is built using industry-leading third-party and internally developed software as well as open source technologies. This combination allows for rapid development and release of high-performance software in a cost-effective and scalable manner. Our mobile applications and websites are designed to have high availability, from the Internet connectivity providers we choose, to the servers, databases and networking hardware that we deploy. We design our systems so that the failure of any individual component is not expected to affect the overall availability of our platform. We also leverage content delivery networks and use other third-party cloud computing services, including map-related and ad serving services, to ensure fast and local access to content. We employ a host of encryption, antivirus, firewall, monitoring, and patch-management technology to protect and maintain our systems. Our Zillow technical infrastructure, mobile applications and websites are hosted at a third-party facility located in the Seattle area. Additionally, we utilize third-party web services for cloud computing and storage to assist in service growth and redundancy. Content delivery network solutions have been put in place to ensure fast and local access to content. Development and test environments are located either in a data center we manage at our corporate headquarters or are hosted by third-party cloud computing infrastructure. 17 Table of Contents We currently manage our Trulia mobile applications and website from three locations. The primary location where we host our production environment is within a shared data center in Santa Clara, California. We also have a second hosted facility located in Denver, Colorado where we support our production environment and provide redundancy, backup and load balancing. We use a third hosted facility located in Oakland, California for production service backup and for our development environment. For information about our research and development costs, see Note 2 of the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements included within this annual report. Intellectual Property We protect our intellectual property through a combination of trademarks, trade dress, domain names, copyrights, trade secrets and patents, as well as contractual provisions and restrictions on access to our proprietary technology. Our trademarks registered in the United States and several other jurisdictions include, but are not limited to, Zillow, Trulia, Zestimate, Premier Agent, Dueling Digs, Make Me Move, Diverse Solutions, dsIDXpress, Mortech, Marksman, Hotpads, StreetEasy, Retsly, dotloop, Digs, Find Your Way Home, the Z in a house logo, the Trulia marker logo, as well as logos that correspond with several of our other trademarks. We also have filed other trademark applications in the United States and certain other jurisdictions and will pursue additional trademark registrations to the extent we believe it will be beneficial and cost-effective. We have 18 patents issued in the United States and internationally. These patents cover proprietary techniques that relate to determining a current value for a real estate property, performing summarization of geographic data points in response to zoom selection, the incorporation of individual aerial images and incorporating visual information into a master planar image, the collection, storage and display of home attribute values, providing for a multi-faceted search, and other proprietary techniques relevant to our products and services. We have 47 patent applications pending in the United States and internationally, which seek to cover proprietary techniques relevant to our products and services. We intend to pursue additional patent protection to the extent we believe it will be beneficial and cost-effective. We are the registered holder of a variety of domestic and international domain names that include Zillowgroup.com, Zillow.com, Trulia.com, RealEstate.com, DiverseSolutions.com, Mortech.com, HotPads.com, Streeteasy.com, DotLoop.com, Retsly.com, and other similar variations. In addition to the protection provided by our intellectual property rights, we enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements with our employees, consultants, contractors and business partners. Our employees and contractors are also subject to invention assignment provisions. We further control the use of our proprietary technology and intellectual property through provisions in both our general and product-specific terms of use on our mobile applications and websites. Competition We face competition to attract consumers to our mobile applications and websites and to attract advertisers to purchase our advertising products and services. Competition for Consumers We compete for the attention of consumers with companies that operate, or could develop, national and local real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement mobile applications and websites. We compete for consumers primarily on the basis of the quality of the consumer experience, the utility of the data and services we provide, the breadth, depth and accuracy of information, and brand awareness and reputation. We believe we compete favorably on these factors. 18 Table of Contents Competition for Advertisers We compete for advertising customers, such as real estate professionals, with media companies, including companies dedicated to providing mobile and web-based real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement information and services to real estate professionals and consumers, local brokerage sites and major Internet portals, general search engines and social media sites, as well as other online companies. We also compete for a share of advertisers overall marketing budgets with traditional media such as newspapers, television, magazines, and home/apartment guide publications, particularly with respect to advertising dollars spent at the local level by real estate agents, mortgage professionals, property managers or rental agents to advertise their qualifications or listings. We compete for advertising revenue based on perceived return on investment and perceived transaction readiness and overall quality of consumer leads, the effectiveness and relevance of our advertising products, pricing structure and our ability to effectively deliver types of ads to targeted demographics. We believe we compete favorably on these factors. Government Regulation We are affected by laws and regulations that apply to businesses in general, as well as to businesses operating on the Internet and through mobile applications. This includes a continually expanding and evolving range of laws, regulations and standards that address information security, data protection, privacy, consent and advertising, among other things. We are also subject to laws governing marketing and advertising activities conducted by telephone, email, mobile devices, and the Internet, including the Telephone Consumer Protect Act, the Telemarketing Sales Rule, the CAN-SPAM Act, and similar state laws. In addition, some of our mortgage advertising products are operated by our wholly owned subsidiary, Zillow Group Mortgages, Inc., a licensed mortgage broker, pursuant to a support services agreement. Though we do not take mortage applications or make loans or credit decisions in connection with loans, Zillow Group Mortgages, Inc. is subject to stringent state and federal laws and regulations and to the scrutiny of state and federal government agencies as a licensed mortgage broker. By providing a medium through which users can post content and communicate with one another, we may also be subject to laws governing intellectual property ownership, obscenity, libel, and privacy, among other issues. In addition, the real estate agents, mortgage professionals, banks, property managers, rental agents and some of our other customers and advertisers on our mobile applications and websites are subject to various state and federal laws and regulations relating to real estate, rentals and mortgages. We endeavor to ensure that any content created by Zillow is consistent with such laws and regulations by obtaining assurances of compliance from our advertisers and consumers for their activities through, and the content they provide on, our mobile applications and websites. The real estate, mortgages, and rentals industries are subject to significant state and federal regulation; though we provide advertising services and technology solutions to real estate, mortgages, and rentals professionals, certain of our activities may be deemed to be covered by these industry regulations. Since the laws and regulations governing real estate, rentals and mortgages are constantly evolving, it is possible that we may have to materially alter the way we conduct some parts of our business activities or be prohibited from conducting such activities altogether at some point in the future. Employees As of December 31, 2015, we had 2,204 full-time employees. Where You Can Find More Information Our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, are available on our website at www.zillowgroup.com, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after the electronic filing of these reports with the SEC. The information contained on our website is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 19 Table of Contents Investors and others should note that Zillow Group announces material financial information to its investors using its press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. Zillow Group intends to also use the following channels as a means of disclosing information about Zillow Group, its services and other matters and for complying with its disclosure obligations under Regulation FD: Zillow Group Investor Relations Webpage (http://investors.zillowgroup.com) Zillow Group Investor Relations Blog (http://www.zillowgroup.com/ir-blog) Zillow Group Twitter Account (https://twitter.com/zillowgroup) The information Zillow Group posts through these channels may be deemed material. Accordingly, investors should monitor these channels, in addition to following Zillow Groups press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. This list may be updated from time to time. The information we post through these channels is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to numerous risks. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as any of these risks could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and our prospects. In addition, risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks Related to the Acquisition of Trulia We May Experience Difficulties in Realizing the Expected Benefits of the Acquisition of Trulia. The Trulia acquisition was completed on February 17, 2015, and the integration is substantially complete as of December 31, 2015. Integration resulted in substantial financial costs and required the investment of personnel time and attention and other resources. The success of the acquisition of Trulia depends in part on our ability to realize the anticipated business opportunities, including certain cost savings and operational efficiencies or synergies, and growth prospects from combining Zillow and Trulia in an efficient and effective manner. We may never realize these business opportunities and growth prospects. Purchase Price Accounting in Connection with our Acquisition of Trulia Requires Estimates Which Are Subject to Change in the Future. Future Changes to These Estimates Could Impact Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Our Future Operating Results. Under the acquisition method of accounting, the purchase price paid for Trulia is allocated to the underlying Trulia tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their respective fair market values with any excess purchase price allocated to goodwill. The acquisition method of accounting is dependent upon certain valuations and other studies that are preliminary. Accordingly, the purchase price allocation as of the acquisition date is preliminary. Zillow Group anticipates that all the information needed to identify and measure values assigned to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed will be obtained and finalized during the one-year measurement period following the date of completion of the acquisition. Differences between these preliminary estimates and the final acquisition accounting may occur, and these differences could have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements and the combined companys future results of operations and financial position. We Have Incurred, and May Continue to Incur, Significant Acquisition-Related Costs and Transition Costs in Connection with the Acquisition of Trulia. We have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant, non-recurring costs in connection with completing the acquisition of Trulia and integrating the operations of Zillow and Trulia. We may incur additional costs to maintain employee morale and to retain key employees. Management cannot ensure that the elimination of duplicative costs or the realization of other efficiencies will offset the transaction and integration costs in the near term or at all. 20 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business and Industry If Real Estate, Rental and Mortgage Professionals or Other Advertisers Reduce or End Their Advertising Spending With Us and We are Unable to Attract New Advertisers, Our Business Would Be Harmed. Our current financial model depends on advertising revenue generated primarily through sales to real estate agents and brokerages, rental professionals, mortgage professionals and advertisers in categories relevant to real estate. Our ability to attract and retain advertisers, and ultimately to generate advertising revenue, depends on a number of factors, including how successfully we can: increase the number of consumers who use our products and services and enhance their user experience so we can retain them; offer an attractive return on investment to our advertisers for their advertising spending with us; continue to develop our advertising products and services, including the expansion of those products and services to new advertising customers; keep pace with and anticipate changes in technology to provide industry-leading products and services to advertisers and consumers; and compete effectively for advertising dollars with other online media companies. We do not have long-term contracts with most of our advertisers. Our advertisers could choose to modify or discontinue their relationships with us with little or no advance notice. In addition, as existing contracts for our Premier Agent advertising programs expire, we may not be successful in renewing these contracts, securing new contracts or increasing the amount of revenue we earn for a given contract over time. We may not succeed in retaining existing advertisers spending or capturing a greater share of such spending if we are unable to convince advertisers of the effectiveness or superiority of our products as compared to alternatives, including traditional offline advertising media such as television and newspapers. In addition, future changes to our pricing methodology for advertising services may cause advertisers to reduce their advertising with us or choose not to advertise with us. If current advertisers reduce or end their advertising spending with us and we are unable to attract new advertisers, our advertising revenue and business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. In addition, if we do not realize the benefits we expect from strategic relationships we enter into, including for example, the generation of additional advertising revenue opportunities, our business could be harmed. If We Do Not Innovate and Provide Products and Services That Are Attractive to Our Users and to Our Advertisers, Our Business Could Be Harmed. Our success depends on our continued innovation to provide products and services that make our mobile applications, websites and other tools useful for consumers and real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals, and attractive to our advertisers. As a result, we must continually invest significant resources in research and development to improve the attractiveness and comprehensiveness of our products and services and effectively incorporate new mobile and Internet technologies into them. If we are unable to provide products and services that users, including real estate professionals, want to use, then users may become dissatisfied and use competitors mobile applications, websites and tools. If we are unable to continue offering innovative products and services, we may be unable to attract additional users and advertisers or retain our current users and advertisers, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. If Use of Mobile Technology and the Internet, Particularly With Respect to Real Estate Products and Services, Does Not Continue to Increase as Rapidly as We Anticipate, Our Business Could Be Harmed. Our future success substantially depends on the continued use of mobile technology and the Internet as effective media of business and communication by our consumers. Mobile technology and Internet use may not continue to develop at historical rates, and consumers may not continue to use mobile technology or the Internet 21 Table of Contents as media for information exchange. Further, these media may not be accepted as viable long-term outlets for information for a number of reasons, including actual or perceived lack of security of information and possible disruptions of service or connectivity. If consumers begin to access real estate information through other media and we fail to innovate, our business may be negatively impacted. We Compete in a Dynamic and Nascent Industry, and We May Invest Significant Resources to Pursue Strategies That Do Not Prove Effective. The industry for residential real estate information marketplaces and related advertising services on mobile and Web is in early stages of development, and significant shifts in consumer and professional behaviors occur constantly and rapidly. We continue to learn a great deal about the behaviors and objectives of residential real estate market participants as the industry evolves. We may not successfully anticipate or keep pace with industry changes, and we may invest considerable financial, personnel, and other resources to pursue strategies that do not, ultimately, prove effective such that our results of operations and financial condition may be harmed. We Depend on the Real Estate Industry, and Changes to That Industry, or Declines in the Real Estate Market or Increases in Mortgage Interest Rates, Could Reduce the Demand for Our Products and Services. Our financial results significantly depend on real estate shoppers using our services. Real estate shopping patterns depend on the overall health of the real estate market. Changes to the regulation of the real estate industry, including mortgage lending, may negatively impact the prevalence of home ownership and the ability of market participants to close transactions. Changes to the real estate industry, declines in the real estate market or increases in mortgage interest rates could reduce demand for our services. Real estate markets also may be negatively impacted by a significant natural disaster, such as earthquake, fire, flood or other disruption. In addition, real estate, rental, and mortgage professionals are subject to comprehensive federal, state, and local laws and regulations which may cause them to significantly alter, decrease, or terminate their purchase of our products and services. Seasonality, micro- and macroeconomic factors, government regulation, and other similar factors may decrease consumer usage as well as sales to our advertisers and other customers, which could harm our results of operations and financial condition. We May Not Be Able to Maintain or Establish Relationships With Real Estate Brokerages, Real Estate Listing Aggregators, Multiple Listing Services, Property Management Companies, Home Builders and Other Third-Party Listing Providers, Which Could Limit the Information We Are Able to Provide to Our Users. Our ability to attract users to our mobile applications, websites and other tools depends to some degree on providing a robust number of for-sale and rental listings. To provide these listings, we maintain relationships with real estate brokerages, real estate listing aggregators, multiple listing services, property management companies, home builders, other third-party listing providers, and homeowners and their real estate agents to include listing data in our services. Many of our agreements with real estate listing providers are short-term agreements that may be terminated with limited notice. The loss of some of our existing relationships with listing providers, whether due to termination of agreements or otherwise, changes to our rights to use listing data, or an inability to continue to add new listing providers, may cause our listing data to omit information important to users of our products and services. This could reduce user confidence in the sale and rental data we provide and make us less popular with consumers, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Historically, a substantial portion of the listings displayed on our mobile applications and websites was provided to us by a single real estate listing aggregator pursuant to platform services agreements. These listings provided revenue-generating opportunities as impressions were delivered through our mobile applications and websites. Pursuant to agreements with the real estate listing aggregator, the platform services agreements expired on April 7, 2015. Through various data acquisition efforts, including the January 2015 launch of the Zillow Data Dashboard, a new listing management and reporting platform that allows Multiple Listing Services, or MLSs, and brokers to provide listings directly to Zillow, we have made progress in replacing the listings previously 22 Table of Contents provided under the platform services agreements. Since January 2015, nearly 400 MLSs have signed agreements to send listings directly to Zillow and Trulia. However, we may not be able to fully replace the listings in a timely manner or on terms favorable to us, if at all, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We May Not Be Able to Maintain or Establish Relationships With Data Providers, Which Could Limit the Information We Are Able to Provide to Our Users and Impair Our Ability to Attract or Retain Users. We obtain real estate data, such as sale transactions, property descriptions, tax-assessed value and property taxes paid, under licenses from third-party data providers. We use this data to enable the development, maintenance and improvement of our information services, including Zestimates, Rent Zestimates and our living database of homes. We have invested significant time and resources to develop proprietary algorithms, valuation models, software and practices to use and improve on this specific data. We may be unable to renew our licenses with these data providers, or we may be able to do so only on terms that are less favorable to us, which could harm our ability to continue to develop, maintain and improve these information services and could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We Face Competition to Attract Consumers to Our Mobile Applications and Websites, Which Could Impair Our Ability to Continue to Grow the Number of Users Who Use Our Mobile Applications and Websites, Which Would Harm Our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition. Our success depends on our ability to continue to attract additional consumers to our mobile applications and websites. Our existing and potential competitors include companies that operate, or could develop, national and local real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement websites. These companies could devote greater technical and other resources than we have available, have a more accelerated time frame for deployment and leverage their existing user bases and proprietary technologies to provide products and services that consumers might view as superior to our offerings. Any of our future or existing competitors may introduce different solutions that attract consumers or provide solutions similar to our own but with better branding or marketing resources. If we are not able to continue to grow the number of consumers who use our mobile applications and websites, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. We May Not Be Able to Compete Successfully Against Our Existing or Future Competitors in Attracting Advertisers, Which Could Harm Our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition. We compete to attract advertisers with media sites, including websites dedicated to providing real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement information and services to real estate professionals and consumers, and major Internet portals, general search engines and social media sites, as well as other online companies. We also compete for a share of advertisers overall marketing budgets with traditional media such as television, magazines, newspapers and home/apartment guide publications, particularly with respect to advertising dollars spent at the local level by real estate professionals to advertise their qualifications and listings. Large companies with significant brand recognition have large numbers of direct sales personnel and substantial proprietary advertising inventory and web traffic, which may provide a competitive advantage. To compete successfully for advertisers against future and existing competitors, we must continue to invest resources in developing our advertising platform and proving the effectiveness and relevance of our advertising products and services. Pressure from competitors seeking to acquire a greater share of our advertisers overall marketing budget could adversely affect our pricing and margins, lower our revenue, and increase our research and development and marketing expenses. If we are unable to compete successfully against our existing or future competitors, our business, results of operations or financial condition would be harmed. Our Dedication to Making Decisions Based Primarily on the Best Interests of Consumers May Cause Us to Forgo Short-Term Gains. Our guiding principle is to build our business by making decisions based primarily on the best interests of consumers, which we believe has been essential to our success in increasing our user growth rate and 23 Table of Contents engagement and has served the long-term interests of our company and our shareholders. In the past, we have forgone, and we will in the future forgo, certain expansion or short-term revenue opportunities that we do not believe are in the best interests of consumers, even if such decisions negatively impact our short-term results of operations. In addition, our philosophy of putting consumers first may negatively impact our relationships with our existing or prospective advertisers. This could result in a loss of advertisers, which could harm our revenue and results of operations. For example, we believe that some real estate agents have chosen not to purchase our Premier Agent product because we display a Zestimate on their for-sale listings. We believe, however, that it is valuable to consumers to have access to a valuation starting point on all homes and so we display a Zestimate on every home in the Zillow database for which we have sufficient data to produce the Zestimate. Similarly, we gather, and make available to our consumers, reviews on real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals, even if those reviews are unfavorable. Although real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals who receive unfavorable reviews may be less likely to purchase our advertising products and services, we continue to post favorable and unfavorable reviews because we believe the reviews are useful to consumers in finding the right professional. Our principle of making decisions based primarily on the best interests of consumers may not result in the long-term benefits that we expect, in which case our user traffic and engagement, business and results of operations could be harmed. We May in the Future Be Subject to Disputes Regarding the Accuracy of Our Zestimates and Rent Zestimates. We provide our users with Zestimate and Rent Zestimate home and rental valuations. Zestimates are our estimated current market values of a home based on our proprietary automated valuation models that apply advanced algorithms to analyze our data; they are not appraisals. A Rent Zestimate is our estimated current monthly rental price of a home, using similar automated valuation models that we have designed to address the unique attributes of rental homes. Revisions to our automated valuation models, or the algorithms that underlie them, may cause certain Zestimates or Rent Zestimates to vary from our expectations for those Zestimates or Rent Zestimates. In addition, from time to time, users disagree with our Zestimates and Rent Zestimates. Any such variation in Zestimates or Rent Zestimates or disagreements could result in distraction from our business or potentially harm our reputation and could result in legal disputes. We May Be Unable to Increase Awareness of the Zillow Group Brands Cost-effectively, Which Could Harm Our Business. We rely heavily on the Zillow Group brands, including Zillow and Trulia, which we believe are key assets of our company. Awareness and perceived quality and differentiation of the Zillow Group brands are important aspects of our efforts to attract and expand the number of consumers who use our mobile applications and websites. Should the competition for awareness and brand preference increase among providers of mobile or online real estate information, we may not be able to successfully maintain or enhance the strength of our brand. In 2013 and 2014, we significantly increased our advertising investment to increase brand awareness and grow traffic, and this investment continued through 2015. We expect to continue to invest in our paid advertising. Paid advertising may not continue to be successful or cost-effective. If we are unable to maintain or enhance user and advertiser awareness of our brand cost-effectively, or if we are unable to recover our additional marketing and advertising costs through increased usage of our products and services, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. If We Fail to Manage Our Growth Effectively, Our Brands, Results of Operations and Business Could Be Harmed. We have experienced rapid and significant growth in our headcount and operations, including as a result of the February 2015 Trulia acquisition, which places substantial demand on management and our operational infrastructure. The majority of our employees have been with us for fewer than two years. As we continue to grow, we must effectively integrate, develop and motivate a large number of new employees, while maintaining the beneficial aspects of our company culture. In particular, we expect to continue to pursue strategic 24 Table of Contents opportunities and make substantial investments in our technology and development and sales and marketing organizations. If we do not manage the growth of our business and operations effectively, the quality of our services and efficiency of our operations could suffer, which could harm our brand, results of operations and overall business. We Rely on the Performance of Highly Skilled Personnel, and if We Are Unable to Attract, Retain and Motivate Well-Qualified Employees, Our Business Could Be Harmed. We believe our success has depended, and continues to depend, on the efforts and talents of our management and our highly skilled team of employees, including our software engineers, statisticians, marketing professionals and advertising sales staff. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain highly qualified and skilled employees. The loss of any of our senior management or key employees could materially adversely affect our ability to build on the efforts they have undertaken and to execute our business plan, and we may not be able to find adequate replacements. We cannot ensure that we will be able to retain the services of any members of our senior management or other key employees. If we do not succeed in attracting well-qualified employees or retaining and motivating existing employees, our business could be harmed. We May Make Acquisitions and Investments, Which Could Result in Operating Difficulties, Dilution and Other Harmful Consequences. We continue to evaluate a wide array of potential strategic opportunities, including acquisitions. Any transactions that we enter into could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. The acquisitions may not result in the intended benefits to our business, and we may not successfully evaluate or utilize the acquired products, technology, or personnel, or accurately forecast the financial impact of an acquisition transaction. The process of integrating an acquired company, business or technology could create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. The areas where we face risks include: diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to acquisition integration challenges; consumer and industry acceptance of products and services offered by the acquired company; implementation or remediation of controls, procedures and policies at the acquired company; coordination of product, engineering and sales and marketing functions; retention of employees from the acquired company; liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition; litigation or other claims arising in connection with the acquired company; and impairment charges associated with goodwill and other acquired intangible assets. Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions and investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions or investments, incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We Are Subject to a Number of Risks Related to the Credit Card and Debit Card Payments We Accept. We accept payments through credit and debit card transactions. For credit and debit card payments, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time. An increase in those fees may require us to increase the prices we charge and would increase our operating expenses, either of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents We depend on processing vendors to complete credit and debit card transactions. If we or our processing vendors fail to maintain adequate systems for the authorization and processing of credit card transactions, it could cause one or more of the major credit card companies to disallow our continued use of their payment products. In addition, if these systems fail to work properly and, as a result, we do not charge our customers credit cards on a timely basis or at all, our business, revenue, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it more difficult for us to comply. We are required to comply with payment card industry security standards. Failing to comply with those standards may violate payment card association operating rules, federal and state laws and regulations, and the terms of our contracts with payment processors. Any failure to comply fully also may subject us to fines, penalties, damages and civil liability, and may result in the loss of our ability to accept credit and debit card payments. Further, there is no guarantee that such compliance will prevent illegal or improper use of our payment systems or the theft, loss, or misuse of data pertaining to credit and debit cards, card holders and transactions. If we fail to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions, we may face civil liability, diminished public perception of our security measures, and significantly higher credit card-related costs, each of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to maintain our chargeback rate or refund rates at acceptable levels, our processing vendors may increase our transaction fees or terminate their relationships with us. Any increases in our credit and debit card fees could harm our results of operations, particularly if we elect not to raise our rates for our service to offset the increase. The termination of our ability to process payments on any major credit or debit card would significantly impair our ability to operate our business. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property and Technology If Our Security Measures Are Compromised, We May Be Subject to Legal Claims and Suffer Significant Losses, and Consumers May Curtail Use of Our Products and Services and Advertisers May Reduce Their Advertising on Our Mobile Applications and Websites. Our products and services involve the transmission and/or storage of users information, some of which may be private or include personally identifiable information such as social security numbers and credit card information, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or exposure of this information, which could result in potential liability and litigation. Like all mobile application and website providers, our mobile applications and websites are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, phishing attacks, attempts to overload our servers with denial-of-service or other attacks, and similar disruptions from unauthorized use of our computer systems, any of which could lead to interruptions, delays, or website shutdowns, causing loss of critical data or the unauthorized disclosure or use of personal or other confidential information. Further, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees, users or advertisers to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our information or our users or advertisers information, and our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. If we experience compromises to our security that result in mobile application or website performance or availability problems, the complete shutdown of our mobile applications or websites, or the loss or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, our users and advertisers may lose trust and confidence in us, we may be subject to legal claims, government investigation and additional state and federal statutory requirements, users may decrease the use of our mobile applications or websites or stop using our mobile applications or websites in their entirety, and advertisers may decrease or stop advertising on our mobile applications or websites. In May 2015, for example, we detected a distributed denial of service attack against our website, zillow.com. Upon detection, standard response protocols were immediately initiated, filtering malicious 26 Table of Contents traffic and restoring network performance. This incident did not have a material adverse effect on our business, and there is no indication that our internal controls were compromised. Despite the additional network detection tools we implemented, we cannot ensure that we will not experience future incidents. We depend on data storage vendors to store certain user information, some of which may be private or include personally identifiable information. If our data storage vendors fail to maintain adequate information security systems and our users information is compromised, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Further, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently, often are not recognized until launched against a target, and may originate from less regulated and remote areas around the world, we may be unable to proactively address all these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Any or all of these issues could negatively impact our ability to attract new users and increase engagement by existing users, cause existing users to curtail or stop use of our products or services or close their accounts, cause existing advertisers to cancel their contracts, or subject us to third-party lawsuits, regulatory fines or other action or liability, thereby harming our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any Significant Disruption in Service on Our Mobile Applications or Websites or in Our Network Could Damage Our Reputation and Brands, and Result in a Loss of Users of Our Products and Services and of Advertisers, Which Could Harm Our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition. Our brand, reputation and ability to attract users and advertisers depend on the reliable performance of our network infrastructure and content delivery processes. We have experienced minor interruptions in these systems in the past, including server failures that temporarily slowed the performance of our mobile applications and websites, and we may experience interruptions in the future. Interruptions in these systems, whether due to system failures, computer viruses, software errors or physical or electronic break-ins, could affect the security or availability of our products and services on our mobile applications and websites and prevent or inhibit the ability of users to access our services. Since our users may rely on our products and services, including our free customer relationship management tools, for important aspects of their businesses, problems with the reliability, availability or security of our systems could damage our users businesses, harm our reputation, result in a loss of users of our products and services and of advertisers and result in additional costs, any of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. The majority of the communications, network and computer hardware used to operate our mobile applications and websites are located at facilities in the Seattle, Washington and Santa Clara, California areas. We do not own or control the operation of certain of these facilities. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, acts of war, electronic and physical break-ins, computer viruses, earthquakes and similar events. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events could result in damage to our systems and hardware or could cause them to fail completely, and our insurance may not cover such events or may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. A failure of our systems at one site could result in reduced functionality for our users, and a total failure of our systems could cause our mobile applications or websites to be inaccessible. Problems faced by our third-party web-hosting providers with the telecommunications network providers with which they contract or with the systems by which they allocate capacity among their customers, including us, could adversely affect the experience of our users. Our third-party web-hosting providers could decide to close their facilities without adequate notice. Any financial difficulties, such as bankruptcy reorganization, faced by our third-party web-hosting providers or any of the service providers with whom they contract may have negative effects on our business, the nature and extent of which are difficult to predict. If our third-party web-hosting providers are unable to keep up with our growing needs for capacity, our business could be harmed. In addition, if distribution channels for our mobile applications experience disruptions, such disruptions could adversely affect the ability of users and potential users to access or update our mobile applications, which could harm our business. 27 Table of Contents We do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for the potentially significant losses, including the potential harm to the future growth of our business, which may result from interruptions in our service as a result of system failures. Any errors, defects, disruptions or other performance problems with our services could harm our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. We May Be Unable to Adequately Protect Our Intellectual Property, Which Could Harm the Value of Our Brands and Our Business. We regard our intellectual property as critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright and patent law, trade secret protection and contracts to protect our proprietary rights. If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property, the value of our brands and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. While we believe that our issued patents and pending patent applications help to protect our business, we cannot ensure that our operations do not, or will not, infringe valid, enforceable patents of third parties or that competitors will not devise new methods of competing with us that are not covered by our patents or patent applications. We cannot ensure that our patent applications will be approved, that any patents issued will adequately protect our intellectual property, that such patents will not be challenged by third parties or found to be invalid or unenforceable, or that our patents will be effective in preventing third parties from utilizing a copycat business model to offer the same products or services. Moreover, we rely on intellectual property and technology developed or licensed by third parties, and we may not be able to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties on reasonable terms or at all. Effective trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services may be provided. The laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States and, therefore, in certain jurisdictions, we may be unable to protect intellectual property and our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could harm our competitive position. We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to third parties. These licensees may take actions that might diminish the value of our proprietary rights or harm our reputation, even if we have agreements prohibiting such activity. To the extent third parties are obligated to indemnify us for breaches of our intellectual property rights, these third parties may be unable to meet these obligations. Any of these events could harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, we may actively pursue entities that infringe our intellectual property, including through legal action. Taking such action may be costly, and we cannot ensure that such actions will be successful. Any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive for us to do business and harm our results of operations or financial condition. Intellectual Property Disputes Are Costly to Defend and Could Harm Our Business, Results of Operations, Financial Condition and Reputation. From time to time, we face allegations that we have infringed the trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights of third parties. We are currently subject to patent and other intellectual properly infringement claims. These claims allege, among other things, that aspects of our technology infringe upon the plaintiffs patents or other intellectual property. If we are not successful in defending ourselves against these claims, we may be required to pay damages and may be subject to injunctions, each of which could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and reputation. We may be subject to future claims or allegations relating to our intellectual property rights. As we grow our business and expand our operations, we expect that we will continue to be subject to intellectual property claims and allegations. Patent and other intellectual property disputes or litigation may be protracted and expensive, and the results are difficult to predict and may require us to stop offering certain products, services or features, purchase licenses that may be 28 Table of Contents expensive to procure, or modify our products or services. In addition, patent or other intellectual property disputes or litigation may result in significant settlement costs. Any of these events could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and reputation. In addition, we use open source software in our services and will continue to use open source software in the future. From time to time, we may be subject to claims brought against companies that incorporate open source software into their products or services, claiming ownership of, or demanding release of, the source code, the open source software and/or derivative works that were developed using such software, or otherwise seeking to enforce the terms of the applicable open source license. These claims could also result in litigation, require us to purchase a costly license, or require us to devote additional research and development resources to changing our products or services, any of which would have a negative effect on our business and results of operations. Even if these matters do not result in litigation or are resolved in our favor or without significant cash settlements, the time and resources necessary to resolve them could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and reputation. We May Be Unable to Continue to Use the Domain Names That We Use in Our Business, or Prevent Third Parties From Acquiring and Using Domain Names That Infringe on, Are Similar to, or Otherwise Decrease the Value of Our Brand or Our Trademarks or Service Marks. We have registered domain names for our websites that we use in our business. If we lose the ability to use a domain name, we may incur significant expenses to market our products and services under a new domain name, which could harm our business. In addition, our competitors could attempt to capitalize on our brand recognition by using domain names similar to ours. Domain names similar to ours have been registered in the United States and elsewhere. We may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring and using domain names that infringe on, are similar to, or otherwise decrease the value of our brand or our trademarks or service marks. Protecting and enforcing our rights in our domain names and determining the rights of others may require litigation, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of managements attention. Confidentiality Agreements With Employees and Others May Not Adequately Prevent Disclosure of Trade Secrets and Other Proprietary Information. In order to protect our technologies and processes, we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, licensees, independent contractors and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information, including trade secrets, and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such parties. To the extent that our employees, contractors or other third parties with whom we do business use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. The loss of trade secret protection could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality. In addition, any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, intellectual property laws may compromise our ability to enforce our trade secret and intellectual property rights. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain protection of our trade secrets or other proprietary information could harm our business, results of operations, reputation and competitive position. We May Not Be Able to Halt the Operations of Websites That Aggregate or Misappropriate Our Data. From time to time, third parties have misappropriated our data through website scraping, robots or other means, and aggregated this data on their websites with data from other companies. In addition, copycat websites have misappropriated data on our network and attempted to imitate our brand or the functionality of our websites. When we have become aware of such websites, we have employed technological or legal measures in an attempt to halt their operations. We may not be able, however, to detect all such websites in a timely manner and, even if 29 Table of Contents we could, technological and legal measures may be insufficient to halt their operations. In some cases, particularly in the case of websites operating outside of the United States, our available remedies may not be adequate to protect us against the impact of the operation of such websites. Regardless of whether we can successfully enforce our rights against the operators of these websites, any measures that we may take could require us to expend significant financial or other resources, which could harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, to the extent that such activity creates confusion among consumers or advertisers, our brands and business could be harmed. Risks Related to Regulatory Compliance and Legal Matters We Are, and May in the Future Become, Subject to a Variety of Federal and State Laws, Many of Which Are Unsettled and Still Developing and Which Could Subject Us to Claims or Otherwise Harm Our Business. We are currently subject to a variety of, and may in the future become subject to additional, federal and state laws that are continuously evolving and developing, including laws regarding the real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement industries, mobile- and Internet-based businesses and other businesses that rely on advertising, as well as privacy and consumer protection laws, including the Telephone Consumer Protect Act, the Telemarketing Sales Rule, the CAN-SPAM Act, and similar state laws. These laws can be costly to comply with, require significant management time and effort, and subject us to claims, government enforcement actions, civil and criminal liability or other remedies, including suspension of business operations. These laws may conflict with each other, and if we comply with the laws of one jurisdiction, we may find that we are violating laws of another jurisdiction. Additionally, our ability to provide a specific target audience to advertisers is a significant competitive advantage. Any legislation reducing this ability would have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. If we are unable to comply with these laws or regulations, if we become liable under these laws or regulations, or if unfavorable regulations or unfavorable interpretations of existing regulations by courts or regulatory bodies are implemented, we could be directly harmed and forced to implement new measures to reduce our exposure to this liability and it could cause the development of product or service offerings in affected markets to become impractical. This may require us to expend substantial resources or to discontinue certain products or services, limit our ability to expand our product and services offerings, or expand into new markets or otherwise harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the increased attention focused on liability issues as a result of lawsuits and legislative proposals could harm our reputation or otherwise impact the growth of our business. Any costs incurred as a result of this potential liability could harm our business and results of operations. We assist with the processing of customer credit card transactions and consumer credit report requests, which results in us receiving personally identifiable information. This information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulation in the United States. This legislation and regulation is generally intended to protect the privacy and security of personal information, including credit card information that is collected, processed and transmitted. We could be adversely affected if government regulations require us to significantly change our business practices with respect to this type of information. Certain of our mortgage advertising products are operated by our wholly owned subsidiary, Zillow Group Mortgages, Inc., a licensed mortgage broker, pursuant to a support services agreement. Though we do not take mortage applications or make loans or credit decisions in connection with loans, Zillow Group Mortgages, Inc. is subject to stringent state and federal laws and regulations and to the scrutiny of state and federal government agencies as a licensed mortgage broker. Further, due to the geographic scope of our operations and the nature of the services we provide, we may be required to obtain and maintain additional real estate brokerage and mortgage broker licenses in certain states in which we operate. In connection with such licenses, we are required to designate individual licensed brokers of record. We cannot assure you that we are, and will remain at all times, in full compliance with state real estate and mortgage broker licensing laws and regulations and we may be subject to fines or penalties in the event of any non-compliance. If in the future a state agency were to determine 30 Table of Contents that we are required to obtain a real estate or mortgage brokerage license in that state in order to receive payments or commissions from real estate professionals, or if we lose an existing license or are otherwise found to be in violation of a law or regulation, we may be subject to fines or legal penalties or our business operations in that state may be suspended until we obtain the license or otherwise remedy the compliance issue. Any failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may limit our ability to expand into new markets, offer new products or continue to operate in one or more of our current markets. We are From Time to Time Involved In, or May In the Future be Subject to, Claims, Suits, Government Investigations, and Other Proceedings That May Result In Adverse Outcomes. We are from time to time involved in, or may in the future be subject to, claims, suits, government investigations, and proceedings arising from our business, including actions with respect to intellectual property claims, privacy, consumer protection, information security, data protection or law enforcement matters, tax matters, labor and employment claims, commercial claims, as well as actions involving content generated by our users, shareholder derivative actions, purported class action lawsuits, and other matters, including for example, the compliance review by the Wage and Hour Division of the U.S. Department of Labor described below in Part I, Item 3. Such claims, suits, government investigations, and proceedings are inherently uncertain and their results cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of the outcome, any such legal proceedings can have an adverse impact on us because of legal costs, diversion of management and other personnel, and other factors. For instance, for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015, we incurred approximately $27.1 million in legal costs related to our litigation with Move, Inc., described below in Part I, Item 3. In addition, it is possible that a resolution of one or more such proceedings could result in reputational harm, liability, penalties, or sanctions, as well as judgments, consent decrees, or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services, or requiring a change in our business practices, products or technologies, which could in the future materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. As an example, in connection with our litigation with Move, Inc., described below in Part I, Item 3, the plaintiffs recently indicated that they are seeking damages which, if actually awarded, would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. See Legal Proceedings below in Part I, Item 3. The Requirements of Being a Public Company May Strain Our Resources and Distract Our Management, Which Could Make It Difficult to Manage Our Business. We are required to comply with various regulatory and reporting requirements, including those required by the SEC. Complying with these reporting and other regulatory requirements can be time-consuming and results in increased costs to us and could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. These requirements could strain our systems and resources. The Exchange Act also requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Exchange Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure