Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in this report and the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to revenue, long-lived assets, goodwill, the allowance for doubtful accounts, stock-based compensation, earnouts, self-insurance accruals and income taxes. Estimates of the carrying value of certain assets and liabilities are based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that the Company believes to be reasonable. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Revenue Recognition The Company generates substantially all of its revenue from the sale of targeted advertising campaigns, which are delivered via its network of websites, and events. Revenue is recognized only when the price is fixed or determinable, persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the service is performed and collectability of the resulting receivable is reasonably assured. The majority of the Companys online media sales involve multiple product offerings, which are described in more detail below. Because neither vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value nor third party evidence of fair value exists for all elements in the Companys bundled product offerings, the Company uses an estimated selling price which represents managements best estimate of the stand-alone selling price for each deliverable in an arrangement. The Company establishes best estimates considering multiple factors including, but not limited to, class of client, size of transaction, available media inventory, pricing strategies and market conditions. The Company believes the use of the best estimate of selling price allows revenue recognition in a manner consistent with the underlying economics of the transaction. The Company uses the relative selling price method to allocate consideration at the inception of the arrangement to each deliverable in a multiple element arrangement. The relative selling price method allocates any discount in the arrangement proportionately to each deliverable on the basis of the deliverables best estimated selling price. Revenue is then recognized as delivery occurs. The Company evaluates all deliverables of an arrangement at inception and each time an item is delivered, to determine whether they represent separate units of accounting. Based on this evaluation, the arrangement consideration is measured and allocated to each of these elements. Online Media. Revenue for lead generation campaigns is recognized as follows: Lead generation campaigns all offer the Activity Intelligence Dashboard (the Dashboard). For duration-based campaigns, revenue is recognized ratably over the duration of the campaigns, which is usually less than six months. Lead generation offerings may also include an additional service, TechTarget Re-Engage (formerly called Nurture & Qualify), in which case revenue is recognized ratably over the period of the campaign as a combined unit of accounting. As part of these lead generation campaign offerings, the Company will guarantee a minimum number of qualified leads to be delivered over the course of the advertising campaign. The Company determines the content necessary to achieve performance guarantees. Scheduled end dates of advertising campaigns sometimes need to be extended, pursuant to the terms of the arrangement, to satisfy lead guarantees. The Company estimates a revenue reserve necessary to adjust revenue recognition for extended advertising campaigns. These estimates are based on the Companys experience in 7 Table of Contents managing and fulfilling these offerings. The customer has cancellation privileges which generally require advance notice by the customer and require proportional payment by the customer for the portion of the campaign period provided by the Company. Additionally, the Company offers sales incentives to certain customers, primarily in the form of volume rebates, which are classified as a reduction of revenues and are calculated based on the terms of the specific customers contract. The Company accrues for these sales incentives based on contractual terms and historical experience. The Company recognizes revenue on contracts where pricing is based on cost per lead in the period during which the leads are delivered to its customers. Revenue for other significant online media offerings is recognized as follows: IT Deal Alert . This suite of products includes Customized Reporting, Account Watch and Qualified Sales Opportunities. Customized reporting revenue is recognized when the report is delivered to the Companys customer; Qualified Sales Opportunities revenue is recognized when the opportunity is delivered to the Companys customer. Custom Content Creation . Custom content revenue is recognized when the creation is completed and delivered to the customer, with the exception of microsites which are recognized over the period during which they are live. Content Sponsorships. Content sponsorship revenue is recognized ratably over the period in which the related content asset is available on the Companys websites. List Rentals. List rental revenue is recognized in the period in which the delivery of the list is made to the Companys customer. Banners. Banner revenue is recognized in the period in which the banner impressions or clicks occur. Third Party Revenue Sharing Arrangements. Revenue from third party revenue sharing arrangements is recognized on a net basis in the period in which the services are performed. For certain third party agreements where the Company is the primary obligor, revenue is recognized on a gross basis in the period in which the services are performed. Event Sponsorships. Revenue from vendor-sponsored events, whether sponsored exclusively by a single vendor or in a multi-vendor sponsored event, is recognized upon completion of the event in the period the event occurs. The majority of the Companys events are free to qualified attendees; however, certain events are based on a paid attendee model. The Company recognizes revenue for paid attendee events upon completion of the event. Amounts collected or billed prior to satisfying the above revenue recognition criteria are recorded as deferred revenue. The Company excludes from its deferred revenue and accounts receivable balances amounts for which it has billed in advance prior to the start of a campaign or the delivery of services. Fair Value of Financial Instruments Financial instruments consist of cash and cash equivalents, short and long-term investments, accounts receivable, accounts payable and contingent consideration. Due to their short-term nature and liquidity, the carrying value of these instruments with the exception of contingent consideration approximates their estimated fair values. The fair value of contingent consideration was estimated using a discounted cash flow method described in Note 5. Long-lived Assets, Goodwill and Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets Long-lived assets consist primarily of property and equipment, capitalized software, goodwill and other intangible assets. The Company reviews long-lived assets, including property and equipment and finite intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Conditions that would trigger an impairment assessment include, but are not limited to, a significant adverse change in legal factors or business climate that could affect the value of an asset or an adverse action or a significant decrease in the market price. A specifically identified intangible asset must be recorded as a separate asset from goodwill if either of the following two criteria is met: (1) the intangible asset acquired arises from contractual or other legal rights; or (2) the intangible asset is separable. Accordingly, intangible assets consist of specifically identified intangible assets. Goodwill is the excess of any purchase price over the estimated fair value of net tangible and intangible assets acquired. 8 Table of Contents Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized but are reviewed annually for impairment or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. Separable intangible assets that are not deemed to have an indefinite life are amortized over their estimated useful lives, which range from three to ten years, using methods of amortization that are expected to reflect the estimated pattern of economic use, and are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances suggest that the assets may not be recoverable. Consistent with the Companys determination that it has only one reporting segment, it has been determined that there is only one reporting unit and goodwill is tested for impairment at the entity level. The Company performs its annual test of impairment of goodwill as of December 31st of each year and whenever events or changes in circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may not be recoverable using the two step process required by ASC 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other . The first step of the impairment test is to identify potential impairment by comparing the reporting units fair value with its net book value (or carrying amount), including goodwill. The fair value is estimated based on a market value approach. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, the reporting units goodwill is not considered to be impaired and the second step of the impairment test is not performed. Whenever indicators of impairment are present, the Company would perform the second step and compare the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill, as defined by ASC 350, to its carrying value to determine the amount of the impairment loss, if any. As of December 31, 2013, there were no indications of impairment based on the step one analysis, and the Companys estimated fair value exceeded its goodwill carrying value by a significant margin. Based on the aforementioned evaluation, the Company believes that, as of the balance sheet date presented, none of the Companys goodwill or other long-lived assets were impaired. The Company did not have any intangible assets with indefinite lives as of March 31, 2014 or December 31, 2013. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company offsets gross trade accounts receivable with an allowance for doubtful accounts. The allowance for doubtful accounts is the Companys best estimate of the amount of probable credit losses in their existing accounts receivable. The allowance for doubtful accounts is reviewed on a regular basis, and all past due balances are reviewed individually for collectability. Account balances are charged against the allowance after all means of collection have been exhausted and the potential for recovery is considered remote. Provisions for doubtful accounts are recorded in general and administrative expense. Property and Equipment Property and equipment is stated at cost. Property and equipment acquired through acquisitions of businesses are initially recorded at fair value. Depreciation is calculated on the straight-line method based on the month the asset is placed in service over their estimated useful lives. Internal-Use Software and Website Development Costs The Company capitalizes costs incurred during the development of its website applications and infrastructure as well as certain costs relating to internal-use software. The estimated useful life of costs capitalized is evaluated for each specific project. Capitalized internal-use software and website development costs are reviewed for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. An impairment loss would be recognized only if the carrying amount of the asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The Company capitalized internal-use software and website development costs of $0.9 million and $1.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Income Taxes The Companys deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized based on temporary differences between the financial reporting and income tax bases of assets and liabilities using statutory rates. A valuation allowance is established against net deferred tax assets if, based upon the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The Company records a liability for unrecognized tax benefits resulting from uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return using a more likely than not threshold as required by the provisions of ASC 740-10, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes . The Company recognizes any interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. Stock-Based Compensation The Company has two stock-based employee compensation plans which are more fully described in Note 11. Stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized in the Statement of Operations using the straight-line method over the vesting period of the award or using the accelerated method if the award is contingent upon performance goals. The Company uses the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to determine the fair value of stock option awards. 9 Table of Contents Comprehensive Income (Loss) Comprehensive income (loss) includes all changes in equity during a period, except those resulting from investments by stockholders and distributions to stockholders. The Companys comprehensive income (loss) includes changes in the fair value of the Companys unrealized gains (losses) on available for sale securities and foreign currency translation. Foreign Currency The functional currency for each of the Companys subsidiaries is each countrys local currency. All assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. dollar equivalents at the exchange rate in effect on the balance sheet date or at a historical rate. Revenues and expenses are translated at average exchange rates. Translation gains or losses are recorded in stockholders equity as an element of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Net Income (Loss) Per Share Basic earnings per share is computed based on the weighted average number of common shares and vested restricted stock awards outstanding during the period. Because the holders of unvested restricted stock awards do not have nonforfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents, the Company does not consider these awards to be participating securities that should be included in its computation of earnings per share under the two-class method. Diluted earnings per share is computed using the weighted average number of common shares and vested restricted stock awards outstanding during the period, plus the dilutive effect of potential future issuances of common stock relating to stock option programs and other potentially dilutive securities using the treasury stock method. In calculating diluted earnings per share, the dilutive effect of stock options and restricted stock awards is computed using the average market price for the respective period. In addition, the assumed proceeds under the treasury stock method include the average unrecognized compensation expense and assumed tax benefit of stock options and restricted stock awards that are in-the-money. This results in the assumed buyback of additional shares, thereby reducing the dilutive impact of stock options and restricted stock awards. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In July 2013, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2013-11, Presentation of an Unrecognized Tax Benefit When a Net Operating Loss Carryforward, a Similar Tax Loss, or a Tax Credit Carryforward Exists (ASU 2013-11) to provide guidance on the presentation of unrecognized tax benefits. ASU 2013-11 requires an entity to present an unrecognized tax benefit, or a portion of an unrecognized tax benefit, as a reduction to a deferred tax asset for a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward, except as follows: to the extent a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward is not available at the reporting date under the tax law of the applicable jurisdiction to settle any additional income taxes that would result from the disallowance of a tax position or the tax law of the applicable jurisdiction does not require the entity to use, and the entity does not intend to use, the deferred tax asset for such purpose, the unrecognized tax benefit should be presented in the financial statements as a liability and should not be combined with deferred tax assets. ASU 2013-11 was effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 and its adoption did not have an impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements in the quarter ended March 31, 2014. 10 Table of Contents 3. Fair Value Measurements The Company measures certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis, including cash equivalents, short and long-term investments and contingent consideration. The fair value of these financial assets and liabilities was determined based on three levels of input as follows: Level 1. Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities; Level 2. Observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets; and Level 3. Unobservable inputs. The fair value hierarchy of the Companys financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value and measured on a recurring basis is as follows: Fair Value Measurements at Reporting Date Using March 31, 2014 Quoted Prices in Active Markets for Identical Assets (Level 1) Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level 2) Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3) Assets: Money market funds (1) $ 97 $ 97 $ $ Short-term investments (2) 16,071 16,071 Long-term investments (2) 3,795 3,795 Total $ 19,963 $ 97 $ 19,866 $ Liabilities: Contingent consideration current (3) $ 593 $ $ $ 593 Contingent consideration non-current (3) 1,060 1,060 Total liabilities $ 1,653 $ $ $ 1,653 Fair Value Measurements at Reporting Date Using December 31, 2013 Quoted Prices in Active Markets for Identical Assets (Level 1) Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level 2) Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3) Assets: Money market funds (1) $ 1,607 $ 1,607 $ $ Short-term investments (2) 14,401 14,401 Long-term investments (2) 3,959 3,959 Total $ 19,967 $ 1,607 $ 18,360 $ Liabilities: Contingent consideration current (3) $ 568 $ $ $ 568 Contingent consideration non-current (3) 928 928 Total liabilities $ 1,496 $ $ $ 1,496 (1) Included in cash and cash equivalents on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets; valued at quoted market prices in active markets. (2) Short and long-term investments consist of municipal bonds and government agency bonds; their fair value is calculated using an interest rate yield curve for similar instruments. (3) Valuation techniques and Level 3 inputs used to estimate the fair value of contingent consideration payable in connection with the LeMag acquisition are described in Note 5. During the three months ended March 31, 2014 the contingent consideration increased by approximately $123 when it was remeasured to fair value. The remainder of the change in this balance was caused by foreign currency fluctuations. 11 Table of Contents 4. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Investments Cash and cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less at date of purchase. Cash equivalents are carried at cost, which approximates their fair market value. Cash and cash equivalents consisted of the following: March 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Cash $ 12,338 $ 13,805 Money market funds 97 1,607 Total cash and cash equivalents $ 12,435 $ 15,412 The Companys short and long-term investments are accounted for as available for sale securities. These investments are recorded at fair value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a component of stockholders equity, net of tax. The unrealized gain, net of taxes, was $9 and $10 as of March 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, respectively. Realized gains and losses on the sale of these investments are determined using the specific identification method. There were no realized gains or losses during the three months ended March 31, 2014 or 2013. Short and long-term investments consisted of the following: March 31, 2014 Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Estimated Fair Value Short and long-term investments: Government agency bonds $ 4,111 $ 1 $ $ 4,112 Municipal bonds 15,742 13 (1 ) 15,754 Total short and long-term investments $ 19,853 $ 14 $ (1 ) $ 19,866 December 31, 2013 Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Estimated Fair Value Short and long-term investments: Government agency bonds $ 2,511 $ 4 $ $ 2,515 Municipal bonds 15,833 13 (1 ) 15,845 Total short and long-term investments $ 18,344 $ 17 $ (1 ) $ 18,360 The Company had one debt security in an unrealized loss position at March 31, 2014. This security has been in such a position for less than 24 months. The unrealized loss on this security was approximately $1 and the fair value was $0.8 million. As of March 31, 2014, the Company does not consider this investment to be other-than-temporarily impaired. Municipal and government agency bonds have contractual maturity dates that range from June 2014 to December 2015. All income generated from these investments is recorded as interest income. 5. Acquisition LeMagIT On December 17, 2012 the Company purchased all of the outstanding shares of its French partner, E-Magine Mdias SAS, for approximately $2.2 million in cash plus a potential future earnout valued at $0.7 million at the time of the acquisition. Approximately $1.2 million of the cash payment was made at closing, with the remainder due in two equal installments in fiscal years 2013 and 2014. The third installment is subject to certain revenue growth targets and may be reduced based on actual results. If all targets are met, the total purchase price, including the earnout, shall not exceed $5.2 million, depending on exchange rates at the time of calculation. The installment payments have been recorded at present value using a discount rate of 10%; the discount will be amortized to interest through the payment dates. The second installment was paid in 2013. The third installment, to be paid in 2014, is included in accrued liabilities in the Companys consolidated balance sheet; the earnout is included in non-current liabilities. In connection with this acquisition, the Companys allocation of purchase price was approximately $0.3 million of net tangible assets, $1.3 million of goodwill and $2.0 million of intangible assets related to developed websites, customer relationships, a member database, a non-compete agreement and trade names with estimated useful lives ranging from three to ten years, offset by a deferred tax liability in the amount of $0.7 million. Goodwill is attributable primarily to expected synergies from combining operations as well as intangible assets that do not qualify for recognition, such as an assembled workforce. 12 Table of Contents The estimated fair value of the $2.0 million of acquired intangible assets is assigned as follows: Useful Life Estimated Fair Value (in 000s) Developed websites 120 months $ 1,474 Customer relationship 60 months 118 Member database 60 months 145 Non-compete agreement 36 months 92 Trade name 96 months 211 Total intangible assets $ 2,040 The Company engaged a third party valuation specialist to assist management in determining the fair value of the intangible assets of LeMagIT as well as the contingent consideration related to the transaction. To value the developed websites assets an income approach was used, specifically a variation of the discounted cash-flow method known as the multi-period excess earnings method. The projected net cash flows were discounted using a discount rate of 28%. To value the customer relationship and trade name assets, a relief from royalty method was used to estimate the pre-tax royalty savings to the Company of owning the customer relationships and trade name related to LeMagIT directly rather than having to pay to use the asset. The projected net cash flows from the pre-tax royalty savings were tax affected using an effective rate of 33.3% and then discounted using a discount rate of 28% to calculate the value of the customer relationship and trade name intangible assets. To value the member database, a replacement cost approach was used, specifically a calculation of costs to acquire new members by taking the cost of a member list acquired by LeMagIT in 2012, applying a premium of 50% per member, and multiplying it times the total number of active members at the valuation date. This value was tax effected using an effective rate of 33.3%. Additionally, a tax benefit multiplier of 1.141 was applied to the value of the member database to arrive at the total fair value of the member database asset. To value the non-compete agreement, a comparative business valuation method was used. Based on a non-compete term of 36 months, management projected net cash flows for the Company with and without the non-compete agreement in place. The present value of the sum of the difference between the net cash flows with and without the non-compete agreement in place was calculated, based on a discount rate of 27%. Contingent consideration related to this acquisition consists of a potential earnout as well as the final payment, both of which are subject to future revenue targets and may differ from the amounts that are ultimately payable based on the final calculations. In valuing the contingent consideration it was determined that fair value adjustments were necessary to appropriately reflect the inherent risk and related time value of money associated with these potential payments. Accordingly, discount rates of 28% and 10% were used for the earnout and the final payment, respectively. The calculation of these fair values required the use of significant inputs that are not observable in the market and thus represent a Level 3 fair value measurement as defined in ASC 820. The significant inputs in the Level 3 measurements not supported by market activity include estimated future revenues as well as the rates used to discount them. Financial results of LeMagIT are included in the Companys consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. These results were not material to the consolidated financial statements. Financial results of LeMagIT prior to the date of acquisition are not material to the Companys results and, therefore, pro forma financials were not included. 6. Intangible Assets Intangible assets subject to amortization as of March 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013 consist of the following: As of March 31, 2014 Estimated Useful Lives (Years) Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Customer, affiliate and advertiser relationships 5 9 $ 7,147 $ (4,807 ) $ 2,340 Developed websites, technology and patents 10 1,540 (382 ) 1,158 Trademark, trade name and domain name 5 8 1,913 (1,424 ) 489 Proprietary user information database and internet traffic 3 5 1,322 (858 ) 464 Non-compete agreements 3 96 (41 ) 55 Total intangible assets $ 12,018 $ (7,512 ) $ 4,506 13 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2013 Estimated Useful Lives (Years) Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Customer, affiliate and advertiser relationships 5 9 $ 7,146 $ (4,563 ) $ 2,583 Developed websites, technology and patents 6 10 6,942 (5,721 ) 1,221 Trademark, trade name and domain name 5 8 2,044 (1,482 ) 562 Proprietary user information database and internet traffic 3 5 1,318 (789 ) 529 Non-compete agreements 2 - 3 450 (387 ) 63 Total intangible assets $ 17,900 $ (12,942 ) $ 4,958 Intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives, which range from three to ten years, using methods of amortization that are expected to reflect the estimated pattern of economic use. The remaining amortization expense will be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 2.4 years. Amortization expense was $0.5 million and $0.7 million for the three month periods ended March 31, 2014 and 2013. Amortization expense is recorded within operating expenses as the intangible assets consist of customer-related assets and website traffic that the Company considers to be in support of selling and marketing activities. The Company wrote off $5.8 million of fully amortized intangible assets in the first quarter of 2014; the Company did not write off any amortized intangible assets in the first quarter of 2013. The Company expects amortization expense of intangible assets to be as follows: Years Ending December 31: Amortization Expense 2014 (April 1st December 31st) $ 1,326 2015 1,479 2016 915 2017 205 2018 127 Thereafter 454 $ 4,506 7. Net Income (Loss) Per Common Share A reconciliation of the numerator and denominator used in the calculation of basic and diluted net income (loss) per common share is as follows: For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 Numerator: Net income (loss) $ 135 $ (1,542 ) Denominator: Basic: Weighted average shares of common stock outstanding 32,684,248 40,023,049 Diluted: Weighted average shares of common stock outstanding 32,684,248 40,023,049 Effect of potentially dilutive shares (1) 947,059 Total weighted average shares of common stock outstanding 33,631,307 40,023,049 Net Income (Loss) Per Common Share: Basic net income (loss) per common share $ 0.00 $ (0.04 ) Diluted net income (loss) per common share $ 0.00 $ (0.04 ) (1) In calculating diluted earnings per share, 3.0 million and 5.4 million shares related to outstanding stock options and unvested restricted stock awards were excluded for the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively, because they were anti-dilutive. Additionally, shares used to calculate diluted earnings per share exclude 0.5 million shares related to outstanding stock options and unvested restricted stock awards that would have been dilutive had the Company had net income for the three months ended March 31, 2013. 14 Table of Contents 8. Bank Term Loan Payable The Companys $5.0 million revolving credit facility was amended in August 2011, extending its term and adjusting certain other financial terms and covenants. Unless earlier payment is required by an event of default, all principal and unpaid interest will be due and payable on August 31, 2016. At the Companys option, the Revolving Credit Facility (the Credit Agreement) bears interest at either the prime rate less 1.00% or the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus the applicable LIBOR margin. The applicable LIBOR margin is based on the ratio of total funded debt to earnings before interest, other income and expense, income taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) for the preceding four fiscal quarters. As of March 31, 2014, the applicable LIBOR margin was 1.25%. The Company is also required to pay an unused line fee on the daily unused amount of the Credit Agreement at a per annum rate based on the ratio of total funded debt to EBITDA for the preceding four fiscal quarters. As of March 31, 2014, the per annum unused line fee rate was 0.20%. At March 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013 there were no amounts outstanding under the Credit Agreement. Pursuant to the Credit Agreement, there was a $1.0 million standby letter of credit related to the Companys corporate headquarters lease outstanding at March 31, 2014, bringing the Companys available borrowings on the $5.0 million facility to $4.0 million. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement are collateralized by a security interest in substantially all assets of the Company. Covenants governing the Credit Agreement include the maintenance of certain financial ratios. At March 31, 2014, the Company was in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreement. 9. Commitments and Contingencies Operating Leases The Company conducts its operations in leased office facilities under various noncancelable operating lease agreements that expire through March 2020. In August 2009, the Company entered into an agreement to lease approximately 87,875 square feet of office space in Newton, Massachusetts. The lease commenced in February 2010 and has a term of ten years. The Company is receiving certain rent concessions over the life of the lease. In November 2010, the Newton lease was amended to include an additional 8,400 square feet of office space. The amended lease commenced in March 2011 and runs concurrently with the term of the original lease. The Company is receiving certain rent concessions over the life of the amended lease. Certain of the Companys operating leases include lease incentives and escalating payment amounts and are renewable for varying periods. The Company is recognizing the related rent expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease taking into account the lease incentives and escalating lease payments. Future minimum lease payments under the Companys noncancelable operating leases at March 31, 2014 are as follows: Years Ending December 31: Minimum Lease Payments 2014 (April 1st December 31st) $ 3,281 2015 3,577 2016 3,656 2017 3,290 2018 3,404 Thereafter 4,002 $ 21,210 At March 31, 2014, the Company has an irrevocable standby letter of credit outstanding in the aggregate amount of $1.0 million. This letter of credit supports the lease the Company entered into in 2009 for its corporate headquarters. This letter of credit extends annually through February 28, 2020 unless notification of termination is received. Net Worth Tax Contingency In late March 2010, the Company received a letter from the Department of Revenue of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts (the MA DOR) requesting documentation demonstrating that TSC has been classified by the MA DOR 15 Table of Contents as a Massachusetts security corporation. Following subsequent correspondence with the MA DOR and a settlement conference on March 22, 2011, the Company received on July 16, 2011 a Notice of Assessment from the MA DOR for 2006 and 2007 in the amount of approximately $198 (which amount included all interest and penalties to date) with respect to additional excise taxes on net worth related to TSC. Based on the Companys previous assessment that it was probable that the MA DOR would require an adjustment to correct TSCs tax filings such that it will be treated as a Massachusetts business corporation for the applicable years, for the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company recorded a liability of approximately $200, representing its best estimate at that time of the potential net worth tax exposure. The tax benefits available to a Massachusetts security corporation are comprised of (i) a different rate structure (1.32% on gross investment income vs. 9.5% on net income) and (ii) exemption from the 0.26% excise tax on net worth. On August 17, 2011, the Company filed Applications for Abatement with the MA DOR. On January 6, 2012, the Company filed Petitions for Formal Procedure with the Massachusetts Appellate Tax Board. A trial took place on April 29, 2014; at this time no decision has been rendered. The Company increased the reserve assessment to reflect additional interest accrued through March 31, 2014. Litigation From time to time and in the ordinary course of business, the Company may be subject to various claims, charges, and litigation. At March 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, the Company did not have any pending claims, charges, or litigation that it expects would have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 10. Comprehensive Income (Loss) Comprehensive income (loss) includes all changes in equity during a period, except those resulting from investments by stockholders and distributions to stockholders. For the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013 the Companys comprehensive income (loss) is as follows: For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 Net income (loss) $ 135 $ (1,542 ) Other comprehensive income: Unrealized (loss) gain on investments (net of tax effect of ($1) and $2, respectively) (1 ) 3 Unrealized gain on foreign currency exchange 30 188 Other comprehensive income 29 191 Total comprehensive income (loss) $ 164 $ (1,351 ) 11. Stock-Based Compensation Stock Option Plans In September 1999, the Company approved a stock option plan (the 1999 Plan) that provides for the issuance of up to 12,384,646 shares of common stock incentives. The 1999 Plan provides for the granting of incentive stock options (ISOs), nonqualified stock options (NSOs), and stock grants. These incentives may be offered to the Companys employees, officers, directors, consultants, and advisors, as defined. ISOs may not be granted at less than fair market value on the date of grant, as determined by the Companys Board of Directors (the Board). Each option shall be exercisable at such times and subject to such terms as determined by the Board; grants generally vest over a four year period, and expire no later than ten years after the grant date. In April 2007, the Board approved the 2007 Stock Option and Incentive Plan (the 2007 Plan), which was approved by the stockholders and became effective upon the consummation of the Companys IPO in May 2007. Effective upon the consummation of the IPO, no further awards were made pursuant to the 1999 Plan, but any outstanding awards under the 1999 Plan will remain in effect and will continue to be subject to the terms of the 1999 Plan. The 2007 Plan allows the Company to grant ISOs, NSOs, stock appreciation rights, deferred stock awards, restricted stock and other awards. Under the 2007 Plan, stock options may not be granted at less than fair market value on the date of grant, and grants generally vest over a four year period. Stock options granted under the 2007 Plan expire no later than ten years after the grant date. The Company has reserved for issuance an aggregate of 2,911,667 shares of common stock under the 2007 Plan plus an additional annual increase to be added automatically on January 1 of each year, beginning on January 1, 16 Table of Contents 2008, equal to the lesser of (a) 2% of the outstanding number of shares of common stock (on a fully-diluted basis) on the immediately preceding December 31 and (b) such lower number of shares as may be determined by the Companys compensation committee. The number of shares available for issuance under the 2007 Plan is subject to adjustment in the event of a stock split, stock dividend or other change in capitalization. Generally, shares that are forfeited or canceled from awards under the 2007 Plan also will be available for future awards. To date, approximately 6.7 million shares have been added to the plan in accordance with the automatic annual increase. In addition, shares subject to stock options returned to the 1999 Plan, as a result of their expiration, cancellation or termination, are automatically made available for issuance under the 2007 Plan. As of March 31, 2014 a total of 2,138,236 shares were available for grant under the 2007 Plan. Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation The Company uses the Black-Scholes option pricing model to calculate the grant-date fair value of an award. As there was no public market for the Companys common stock prior to the Companys IPO in May 2007 and, until recently, limited historical information on the volatility of its common stock since the date of the Companys IPO, the Company has historically determined the volatility for options granted based on an analysis of the historical volatility of the Companys stock and reported data for a peer group of companies that issued options with substantially similar terms. Beginning in 2013, the expected volatility of options granted has been determined using a weighted average of the historical volatility of the Companys stock for a period equal to the expected life of the option. The expected life of options has been determined utilizing the simplified method. The risk-free interest rate is based on a zero coupon United States treasury instrument whose term is consistent with the expected life of the stock options. The Company has not paid and does not anticipate paying cash dividends on its shares of common stock; therefore, the expected dividend yield is assumed to be zero. There were no stock options granted in the three months ended March 31, 2014 or 2013. A summary of the stock option activity under the Companys stock option plans for the three months ended March 31, 2014 is presented below: Year-to-Date Activity Options Outstanding Weighted- Average Exercise Price Per Share Weighted- Average Remaining Contractual Term in Years Aggregate Intrinsic Value Options outstanding at December 31, 2013 4,467,248 $ 7.30 Granted Exercised (132,470 ) 4.82 Forfeited Cancelled (11,439 ) 8.46 Options outstanding at March 31, 2014 4,323,339 $ 7.37 3.2 $ 2,612 Options exercisable at March 31, 2014 4,292,714 $ 7.38 3.1 $ 2,605 Options vested or expected to vest at March 31, 2014 (1) 4,319,895 $ 7.37 3.2 $ 2,611 (1) In addition to the vested options, the Company expects a portion of the unvested options to vest at some point in the future. Options expected to vest is calculated by applying an estimated forfeiture rate to the unvested options. During the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013, the total intrinsic value of options exercised (i.e. the difference between the market price at exercise and the price paid by the employee to exercise the options) was $283 and $1,204 respectively, and the total amount of cash received from exercise of these options was $640 and $937, respectively. The total grant date fair value of stock options granted after January 1, 2006 that vested during the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013 was $43 and $193, respectively. 17 Table of Contents Restricted Stock Awards Restricted stock awards are valued at the market price of a share of the Companys common stock on the date of grant. A summary of the restricted stock award activity under the 2007 Plan for the three months ended March 31, 2014 is presented below: Year-to-Date Activity Shares Weighted- Average Grant Date Fair Value Per Share Aggregate Intrinsic Value Nonvested outstanding at December 31, 2013 2,777,500 $ 5.26 Granted Vested (283,333 ) 5.92 Forfeited (15,000 ) 4.16 Nonvested outstanding at March 31, 2014 2,479,167 $ 5.19 $ 17,875 The total grant-date fair value of restricted stock awards that vested during the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013 was $1.7 million and $2.0 million, respectively. As of March 31, 2014, there was $11.3 million of total unrecognized compensation expense related to stock options and restricted stock awards which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.1 years. 12. Stockholders Equity Reserved Common Stock As of March 31, 2014, the Company has reserved 9,082,825 shares of common stock for options outstanding and restricted stock awards that have not been issued as well as those available for grant under the stock option plans. Tender Offer On September 25, 2013, the Company commenced a tender offer to purchase up to 6.5 million shares of its common stock, representing approximately 16.79% of the shares of TechTargets common stock issued and outstanding at that time, at a price of $5.00 per share. On September 23, 2013, the last reported sale price of the Companys common stock was $4.79 per share. The tender offer expired on October 24, 2013. In accordance with applicable SEC regulations and the terms of the tender offer, the Company exercised the right to purchase additional shares and based on the final tabulation by Computershare Trust Company, N.A., the Depositary for the tender offer, the Company accepted for purchase 7,100,565 shares of its common stock for a total cost of $35.5 million. Repurchased shares were recorded under the cost method and are reflected as treasury stock in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. The total cost of the tender offer was $35.6 million, which includes approximately $0.1 million in costs directly attributable to the purchase. Common Stock Repurchase Program On August 3, 2012, the Companys Board of Directors authorized a $20 million stock repurchase program (the Program) authorizing the Company to repurchase its common stock from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. The timing and amount of any shares repurchased was determined based on an evaluation of market conditions and other factors. The Company elected to implement a Rule 10b5-1 trading plan to make such purchases, which permits shares to be repurchased when the Company might otherwise be precluded from doing so under insider trading laws. The Program was terminated immediately prior to the commencement of the tender offer on September 25, 2013. During the three months ended March 31, 2013 the Company repurchased 2,093,551 shares of common stock for $10.1 million pursuant to the Program. During the year ended December 31, 2013 the Company repurchased 2,610,279 shares of common stock for $12.4 million pursuant to the Program. Repurchased shares are recorded under the cost method and are reflected as treasury stock in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. All repurchased shares were funded with cash on hand. 18 Table of Contents 13. Income Taxes The Companys effective income tax rate was 34.7% and 45.4% for the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The effective income tax rate is based upon the estimated annual effective tax rate in compliance with ASC 740, Income Taxes , and other related guidance. The Company updates the estimate of its annual effective tax rate at the end of each quarterly period. The Companys estimate takes into account estimations of annual pre-tax income, the geographic mix of pre-tax income and its interpretations of tax laws. The Companys practice is to recognize interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters in income tax expense. The Company recognized interest and penalties totaling $4 in income tax expense in the three months ended March 31, 2014. In March 2010, the Company received a letter from the Department of Revenue of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts (the MA DOR) requesting documentation demonstrating that TechTarget Securities Corporation (TSC), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, has been classified by the MA DOR as a Massachusetts security corporation. Based on subsequent correspondence with the MA DOR, the Company determined that it was more likely than not that the MA DOR would require an adjustment to correct TSCs tax filings such that it will be treated as a Massachusetts business corporation for the applicable years. The tax benefit available to a Massachusetts security corporation is a lower income tax rate. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company recorded a tax reserve for approximately $0.4 million for the potential state income tax liability arising from the difference between the income tax rates applicable to security corporations and business corporations in Massachusetts. On August 17, 2011, the Company filed Applications for Abatement with the MA DOR. On January 6, 2012, the Company filed Petitions under Formal Procedure with the Massachusetts Appellate Tax Board. A trial took place on April 29, 2014; no decision has been rendered at this time. There are no income tax examinations currently in process with the exception of the matter noted above related to the MA DOR. 14. Segment Information The Company views its operations and manages its business as one operating segment based on factors such as how the Company manages its operations and how its executive management team reviews results and makes decisions on how to allocate resources and assess performance. Geographic Data Net sales to unaffiliated customers by geographic area* were as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 United States $ 18,298 $ 16,038 International 4,679 3,510 Total $ 22,977 $ 19,548 Long-lived assets by geographic area were as follows: March 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 United States $ 101,252 $ 101,241 International 7,016 7,344 Total $ 108,268 $ 108,585 * based on current customer billing address; does not consider the geo-targeted, or target audience, location of the campaign 19 Table of Contents Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those discussed below and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, particularly under the heading Risk Factors. Overview Background We are a leading provider of specialized online content and brand advertising that brings together buyers and sellers of corporate information technology (IT) products. We sell customized marketing programs that enable IT vendors to reach corporate IT decision makers who are actively researching specific purchases. In addition we offer a number of data analytics solutions that help our customers more efficiently target their sales efforts. IT professionals have become increasingly specialized, and rely on our network of over 150 websites, each of which focuses on a specific IT sector such as storage, security or networking, for key decision support information tailored to their specific areas of responsibility. We work with our advertising customers to develop customized marketing programs, often providing them with multiple offerings in order to target their desired audience of IT professionals more effectively. Our service offerings address the lead generation, project opportunity information, and branding objectives of our advertising customers. In the three months ended March 31, 2014, lead generation and branding remained our primary sources of revenue, while project opportunity information, driven by growth in our IT Deal Alert product, contributed approximately 15% of revenue as compared with a minimal amount for the same period in 2013. We enable IT professionals to navigate the complex and rapidly-changing IT landscape where purchasing decisions can have significant financial and operational consequences. Our content strategy includes three primary sources which IT professionals use to assist them in their pre-purchase research: independent content provided by our professionals, vendor-generated content provided by our customers and user-generated, or peer-to-peer, content. In addition to utilizing our independent content, registered members are able to conduct their pre-purchase research by accessing extensive vendor content across our network of websites. Our network of websites also allows users to seamlessly interact and contribute content, which is highly valued by IT professionals during their research process. We have a large and growing base of registered members, which totaled over 13.5 million as of March 31, 2014. The targeted nature of our user base enables IT vendors to reach a specialized audience efficiently because our content is highly segmented and aligned with the IT vendors specific products. Since our founding in 1999, we have developed a broad customer base. During 2013 we delivered advertising campaigns for approximately 1,200 customers. No customer represented 10% or more of total revenue during 2013. Executive Summary Our revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2014 grew approximately 18%, to $23 million, when compared with the same period in 2013. This growth was primarily driven by two factors: continued growth of international revenue from our online products, and further adoption of our new IT Deal Alert offering. Both of these factors remain key areas of focus for our management team, and we believe they are both positioned for significant continued revenue growth. IT Deal Alert is a suite of services that leverages our proprietary audience activity data to enable us to identify purchase intent among our audience of IT professionals. At the same time, our international business is benefitting from the continued shift in adoption of online tools from traditional print sources by IT professionals in overseas markets. During the first quarter of 2014, we made further progress on our strategy to grow our business and increase the reach of our offerings by continuing to execute on our strategic plans for the roll-out of IT Deal Alert and the continued expansion of our direct international capabilities. Our key strategic initiatives include: IT Deal Alert: Qualified Sales Opportunities Our IT Deal Alert Qualified Sales Opportunities service continues to gain traction in the market and we are encouraged by the early progress we have made. In the first quarter of 2014 we had approximately 125 customers utilizing our IT Deal Alert service; this is up from 100 customers in the fourth quarter of 2013. We continue to receive very positive feedback from customers on the service and expect IT Deal Alert to be a meaningful growth driver in the remainder of 2014 and into 2015. IT Deal Alert: Account Watch During the quarter we launched IT Deal Alert: Account Watch, a new annual subscription service also powered by the Activity Intelligence platform, which integrates with salesforce.com. This offering uses targeted content to identify active technology projects based on the activity of serious buyers in over 80 technology-specific segments across the Data Center, Networking, Storage, Security, and Business Applications markets. This real-time data makes prospecting more efficient and allows technology companies to better target opportunities to win more deals. International During the quarter approximately 28% of our revenues were derived from international geo-targeted campaigns, where our target audience is outside North America. International geo-targeted revenue increased in excess of 20% in the three months ended March 31, 2014 as compared to the same period a year ago. We believe that our integrated product offering across regions continues to resonate with international marketers and is contributing to our successful results. We plan on continuing to invest in these capabilities as we seek opportunities to increase our global reach; during the first quarter we introduced IT Deal Alert Qualified Sales Opportunities in the UK and we have plans to roll out IT Deal Alert Qualified Sales Opportunities in the rest of Europe and in APAC later this year. 20 Table of Contents Business Trends The following discussion highlights key trends affecting our business. Macro-economic Conditions and Industry Trends. Because most of our customers are IT vendors, the success of our business is intrinsically linked to the health, and subject to market conditions, of the IT industry. In the three months ended March 31, 2014, we saw continued uncertainty in the IT market. As a result, we have continued to see evidence that some IT vendors North American advertising budgets remained at their previously reduced level, which has caused our revenue to remain level in North America. As a result, while we will continue to invest in growth areas, management will carefully control discretionary spending such as travel and entertainment, and the filling of new and replacement positions, in an effort to maintain profit margins and cash flow. Customer Segments. In the three months ended March 31, 2014, our year-over-year revenue from our top 12 global customers increased by approximately 27%, our mid-sized customers (our next largest 100 customers) increased by approximately 7% and our smaller customers increased by approximately 30%. Even though all three segments showed year-over-year growth, all three segments continued to report a challenging environment. This translated into our customers remaining cautious with their marketing expenditures. Sources of Revenues We sell advertising programs to IT vendors targeting a specific audience within a particular IT sector or sub-sector. We maintain multiple points of contact with our customers to provide support throughout their organizations and their customers IT sales cycles. As a result, our customers often run multiple advertising programs with us in order to target their desired audience of IT professionals more effectively. There are multiple factors that can impact our customers advertising objectives and spending with us, including but not limited to, IT product launches, increases or decreases to their advertising budgets, the timing of key industry marketing events, responses to competitor activities and efforts to address specific marketing objectives such as creating brand awareness or generating sales leads. Our services are generally delivered under short-term contracts that run for the length of a given advertising program, typically less than six months. In the three months ended March 31, 2014, lead generation and branding remained our primary sources of revenue, while project opportunity information, driven by growth in our IT Deal Alert products, contributed approximately 15% of revenue as compared with a minimal amount for the same period in 2013. We use both online and event offerings to provide IT vendors with numerous touch points to reach key IT decision makers and to provide IT professionals with highly specialized content across multiple forms of media. We are experienced in assisting advertisers to develop custom advertising programs that maximize branding and ROI. The following is a description of the services we offer: Online. Online revenue represented 96% and 95% of total revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Our network of websites forms the core of our content platform. Our websites provide IT professionals with comprehensive decision support information tailored to their specific areas of responsibility and purchasing decisions. Through our websites, we offer a variety of online media offerings to connect IT vendors to IT professionals. Our lead generation offerings allow IT vendors to maximize ROI by capturing qualified sales leads from the distribution and promotion of content to our audience of IT professionals. In August of 2011, we released a major upgrade to our Activity Intelligence platform. Since 2012, all of our lead generation campaigns offer the Activity Intelligence Dashboard, a technology platform that gives our customers marketers and sales representatives a real-time view of their prospects, which includes insights on the research activities of technology buying teams, including at an account level. Lead generation offerings may also include an additional service, TechTarget Re-Engage (formerly called Nurture & Qualify), which helps both technology marketers and their sales teams to identify highly active prospects, detect emerging projects, retarget interested buying teams, and accelerate engagement with specific accounts. Our lead generation offerings may also include the syndication of the following: White Papers. White papers are technical documents created by IT vendors to describe business or technical problems which are addressed by the vendors products or services. As part of a lead generation campaign, we post white papers on our relevant websites and our users receive targeted promotions about these content assets. Prior to viewing white papers, our registered members and visitors supply their corporate contact information and agree to receive further information from the vendor. The corporate contact and other qualification information for these leads are supplied to the vendor in real time through our proprietary lead management software. Webcasts, Podcasts, Videocasts and Virtual Trade Shows. Webcasts, podcasts, videocasts, virtual trade shows and similar content bring informational sessions directly to attendees desktops and mobile devices. As is the case with white papers, our users supply their corporate contact and qualification information to the webcast, podcast, videocast or virtual trade show or sponsor when they view or download the content. Sponsorship includes access to the registrant information and visibility before, during and after the event. Our branding offerings provide IT vendors exposure to targeted audiences of IT professionals actively researching information related to their products and services and include display advertising (including banners) and custom offerings. Display advertising can be purchased on specific websites within our network and against specific technology segments. These offerings give IT vendors the ability to increase their brand awareness to highly specialized IT sectors. 21 Table of Contents Our other offerings include the following: IT Deal Alert. IT Deal Alert is a suite of services for advertisers that leverages the detailed purchase intent data that we collect about end-user IT organizations. Through proprietary scoring methodologies, we use this data to help advertisers identify and prioritize accounts whose content consumption around specific IT topics indicates that they are in-market for a particular product or service. We also use the data directly to identify and further profile accounts upcoming purchase plans. IT Deal Alert: Qualified Sales Opportunities is a product that profiles specific in-progress purchase projects, including information on scope and purchase considerations. IT Deal Alert: Account Watch is an annual subscription service powered by our Activity Intelligence platform which integrates with salesforce.com. The breadth and depth of our targeted content allows IT Deal Alert: Account Watch to identify active technology projects based on the activity of serious buyers in approximately 80 technology-specific segments. Custom Content Creation. In support of our advertisers lead generation programs, we will sometimes create white papers, case studies, webcasts, videos or even entire microsites to our customers specifications through our Custom Media team. These customized content assets are then promoted to our audience in the context of the advertisers lead generation programs. Our custom offerings allow customers to have content or entire microsites created that focus on topics related to their marketing objectives and include promotion of these vehicles to our users, which includes IT professionals and buyers of IT products. Content Sponsorships. IT vendors, or groups of vendors, pay us to sponsor independent editorially created content vehicles on specific technology topics where the registrant information is then provided to all participating sponsors. In some cases, these vehicles are supported by multiple sponsors in a single segment, with the registrant information provided to all participating sponsors. Because these offerings are editorially driven, advertisers get the benefit of association with independently created content as well as access to qualified sales leads that are researching the topic. List Rentals. We also offer IT vendors the ability to message registered members on topics related to their interests by renting our e-mail and postal lists of registered members, which is organized using specific criteria such as company size, geography or job title. Third Party Revenue Sharing Arrangements. We have revenue sharing arrangements with certain third parties to allow for the licensing of our online content, for the renting of our database of opted-in e-mail subscribers and to allow advertising from customers of certain third parties to be made available to our website visitors. In each of these arrangements we are paid a share of the resulting revenue. Events. Events revenue represented 4% and 5% of total revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Most of our media groups operate revenue-generating events. The majority of our events are free to IT professionals and are sponsored by IT vendors. Attendees are pre-screened based on event-specific criteria such as sector-specific budget size, company size, or job title. We offer three types of events: multi-day conferences, single-day seminars and custom events. Multi-day conferences provide independent content provided by our professionals to our attendees and allow vendors to purchase exhibit space and other sponsorship offerings that enable interaction with the attendees. We also hold single-day seminars on various topics in major cities. These seminars provide independent content provided by our professionals on key sub-topics in the sectors we serve, are free to qualified attendees, and offer multiple vendors the ability to interact with specific, targeted audiences actively focused on buying decisions. Our custom events differ from our seminars in that they are exclusively sponsored by a single IT vendor, and the content is driven primarily by the sole sponsor. Cost of Revenues, Operating Expenses and Other Expenses consist of cost of online and event revenues, selling and marketing, product development, general and administrative, depreciation, amortization and net interest expenses. Personnel-related costs are a significant component of each of these expense categories except for depreciation and amortization related expenses. Cost of Online Revenue. Cost of online revenues consist primarily of: salaries and related personnel costs; member acquisition expenses (primarily keyword purchases from leading Internet search sites); freelance writer expenses; website hosting costs; vendor expenses associated with the delivery of webcast, podcast, videocast and similar content, and list rental offerings; stock-based compensation expenses; facility expenses and other related overhead. Cost of Events Revenue. Cost of events revenues consist primarily of: facility expenses, including food and beverages for the event attendees as well as office space; salaries and related personnel costs; travel-related expenses; event speaker expenses; stock-based compensation expenses; and other related overhead. Selling and Marketing. Selling and marketing expenses consist primarily of: salaries and related personnel costs; sales commissions; travel-related expenses; stock-based compensation expenses; facility expenses and related overhead. Sales commissions are recorded as expense when earned by the employee, based on recorded revenue. 22 Table of Contents Product Development. Product development includes the creation and maintenance of our network of websites, advertiser offerings and technical infrastructure. Product development expense consists primarily of salaries and related personnel costs; stock-based compensation expenses; facility expenses and other related overhead. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of: salaries and related personnel costs; facility expenses and related overhead; accounting, legal and other professional fees; and stock-based compensation expenses. Depreciation. Depreciation expense consists of the depreciation of our property and equipment. Depreciation of property and equipment is calculated using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, ranging from two to ten years. Amortization of Intangible Assets. Amortization of intangible assets expense consists of the amortization of intangible assets recorded in connection with our acquisitions. Separable intangible assets that are not deemed to have an indefinite life are amortized over their estimated useful lives, which range from three to ten years, using methods that are expected to reflect the estimated pattern of economic use. Interest Income (Expense), Net. Interest income (expense), net consists primarily of interest income earned on cash, cash equivalents and short and long-term investments less any interest expense incurred. We historically have invested our cash in money market accounts, municipal bonds and government agency bonds. Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates The discussion of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue, long-lived assets, goodwill, allowance for doubtful accounts, stock-based compensation, contingent liabilities, self-insurance accruals and income taxes. We based our estimates of the carrying value of certain assets and liabilities on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable. In many cases, we could reasonably have used different accounting policies and estimates. In some cases, changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. See the notes to our consolidated financial statements for information about these critical accounting policies as well as a description of our other accounting policies. Revenue Recognition We generate substantially all of our revenue from the sale of targeted advertising campaigns which we deliver via our network of websites and events. In all cases, we recognize revenue only when the price is fixed or determinable, persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the service is performed and collectability of the resulting receivable is reasonably assured. The majority of our online media sales involve multiple product offerings. Although each of our online media offerings can be sold separately, most of our online media sales involve multiple online offerings. Because objective evidence of fair value does not exist for all elements in our bundled product offerings, we use a best estimate of selling price of individual deliverables in the arrangement in the absence of vendor-specific objective evidence or other third-party evidence of fair value. We establish best estimates considering multiple factors including, but not limited to, class of client, size of transaction, available media inventory, pricing strategies and market conditions. We believe the use of the best estimate of selling price allows revenue recognition in a manner consistent with the underlying economics of the transaction. We apply a relative selling price method to allocate arrangement consideration at the inception of the arrangement to each deliverable in a multiple element arrangement. Revenue is then recognized as delivery occurs. We evaluate all deliverables of an arrangement at inception and each time an item is delivered, to determine whether they represent separate units of accounting. Based on this evaluation, the arrangement consideration is measured and allocated to each of these elements. 23 Table of Contents Online Media. Lead generation campaigns all offer the Activity Intelligence Dashboard. For duration-based campaigns, revenue is recognized ratably over the duration of the campaigns, which is typically less than six months. Lead generation offerings may also include an additional service, TechTarget Re-Engage (formerly called Nurture & Qualify), in which case revenue is recognized ratably over the period of the campaign as a combined unit of accounting. As part of these offerings, we guarantee a minimum number of qualified leads to be delivered over the course of the advertising campaign. We determine the content necessary to achieve performance guarantees. Scheduled end dates of advertising campaigns sometimes need to be extended, pursuant to the terms of the arrangement, to satisfy lead guarantee obligations. We estimate a revenue reserve necessary to adjust revenue recognition for extended advertising campaigns. These estimates are based on our experience in managing and fulfilling these offerings. The customer has cancellation privileges which generally require advance notice by the customer and require proportional payment by the customer for the portion of the campaign period that has been provided. Additionally, we offer sales incentives to certain customers, primarily in the form of volume rebates, which are classified as a reduction of revenues and are calculated based on the terms of the specific customers contract. We accrue for these sales incentives based on contractual terms and historical experience. We recognize revenue from cost per lead advertising in the period during which the leads are delivered, which is typically less than six months. Revenue for other significant online media offerings is recognized as follows: IT Deal Alert . This suite of products includes Customized Reporting, Account Watch and Qualified Sales Opportunities. Customized reporting revenue is recognized when the report is delivered to our customers; Qualified Sales Opportunities revenue is recognized when the opportunity is delivered to our customers; Account Watch is subscription-based, and revenue is recognized ratably over the subscription period. Custom Content Creation . Custom content revenue is recognized when the creation is completed and delivered to the customer, with the exception of microsites which are recognized over the period during which they are live. Content Sponsorships. Content sponsorship revenue is recognized ratably over the period in which the related content vehicle is available on our websites. List Rentals. List rental revenue is recognized in the period in which delivery of the list is made to our customers. Banners. Banner revenue is recognized in the period in which the banner impressions, engagements or clicks occur. Third Party Revenue Sharing Arrangements. Revenue from third-party revenue sharing arrangements is recognized on a net basis in the period in which the services are performed. For certain third-party agreements where we are the primary obligor, revenue is recognized on a gross basis in the period in which the services are performed. Event Sponsorships. We recognize sponsorship revenue from events in the period in which the event occurs. The majority of our events are free to qualified attendees; however, certain events are based on a paid attendee model. We recognize revenue for paid attendee events upon completion of the event. Amounts collected or billed prior to satisfying the above revenue recognition criteria are recorded as deferred revenue. Long-Lived Assets Our long-lived assets consist primarily of property and equipment, capitalized software, goodwill and other intangible assets. Goodwill and other intangible assets have arisen principally from our acquisitions. The amount assigned to intangible assets is subjective and based on our estimates of the future benefit of the intangible assets using accepted valuation techniques, such as discounted cash flow and replacement cost models. Our long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are amortized over their estimated useful lives, which we determine based on the consideration of several factors including the period of time the asset is expected to remain in service. Intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives, which range from three to ten years, using methods of amortization that are expected to reflect the estimated pattern of economic use. Consistent with our determination that we have only one reporting segment, we have determined that there is only one reporting unit and test goodwill for impairment at the entity level. We evaluate the carrying value and remaining useful lives of long-lived assets, other than goodwill, whenever indicators of impairment 24 Table of Contents are present. We evaluate the carrying value of goodwill annually using the two step process required by ASC 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other . The first step of the impairment test is to identify potential impairment by comparing the reporting units fair value with its net book value (or carrying amount), including goodwill. The fair value is estimated based on a market value approach. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, the reporting units goodwill is not considered to be impaired and the second step of the impairment test is not performed. Whenever indicators of impairment are present, we would perform the second step and compare the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill, as defined by ASC 350, to its carrying value to determine the amount of the impairment loss, if any. As of December 31, 2013, the date of our last annual goodwill impairment review, there were no indications of impairment based on our step one analysis, and our estimated fair value exceeded our carrying value by a significant margin. Fair Value of Financial Instruments Financial instruments consist of cash and cash equivalents, short-term and long-term investments, accounts receivable, accounts payable and contingent consideration. Due to their short-term nature and liquidity, the carrying value of these instruments with the exception of contingent consideration approximates their estimated fair values. The fair value of contingent consideration was estimated using a discounted cash flow method. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We offset gross trade accounts receivable with an allowance for doubtful accounts. The allowance for doubtful accounts is our best estimate of the amount of probable credit losses in our existing accounts receivable. We review our allowance for doubtful accounts on a regular basis, and all past due balances are reviewed individually for collectability. Account balances are charged against the allowance after all means of collection have been exhausted and the potential for recovery is considered remote. Provisions for doubtful accounts are recorded in general and administrative expense. If our historical collection experience does not reflect our future ability to collect outstanding accounts receivable, our future provision for doubtful accounts could be materially affected. To date, we have not incurred any write-offs of accounts receivable significantly different than the amounts reserved. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $0.9 million at March 31, 2014 and $0.9 million at December 31, 2013. Stock-Based Compensation We measure stock-based compensation at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and recognize stock-based compensation in our results of operations using the straight-line method over the vesting period of the award or using the accelerated method if the award is contingent upon performance goals. We use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair value of stock option awards. As there was no public market for our common stock prior to our initial public offering in May 2007 and, as until recently, there has been limited historical information on the volatility of our common stock since the date of our initial public offering, we have historically determined the volatility for options granted based on an analysis of the historical volatility of our stock and reported data for a peer group of companies that issued options with substantially similar terms. Beginning in 2013, the expected volatility of options granted has been determined using a weighted average of the historical volatility of our stock for a period equal to the expected life of the option. The risk-free interest rate is based on a zero coupon United States treasury instrument whose term is consistent with the expected life of the stock options. We have not paid and do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our shares of common stock; therefore, the expected dividend yield is assumed to be zero. There were no options granted during the three months ended March 31, 2014 or 2013. Internal-Use Software and Website Development Costs We capitalize costs of materials, consultants and compensation and related expenses of employees who devote time to the development of internal-use software and website applications and infrastructure involving developing software to operate our websites. However, we expense as incurred website development costs for new features and functionalities since it is not probable that they will result in additional functionality until they are both developed and tested with confirmation that they are more effective than the current set of features and functionalities on our websites. Our judgment is required in determining the point at which various projects enter the state at which costs may be capitalized, in assessing the ongoing value of the capitalized costs and in determining the estimated useful lives over which the costs are amortized, which is generally three years. To the extent that we change the manner in which we develop and test new features and functionalities related to our websites, assess the ongoing value of capitalized assets or determine the estimated useful lives over which the costs are amortized, the amount of website development costs we 25 Table of Contents capitalize and amortize in future periods would be impacted. We review capitalized internal-use software and website development costs for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. We would recognize an impairment loss only if the carrying amount of the asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. We capitalized internal-use software and website development costs of $0.9 million and $1.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and foreign jurisdictions, and we use estimates in determining our provision for income taxes. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on temporary differences between the financial reporting and income tax bases of assets and liabilities using statutory rates. Our deferred tax assets are comprised primarily of book to tax differences on stock-based compensation, timing of deductions for deferred rent and accrued expenses, and net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards. As of December 31, 2013, we had state NOL carryforwards of approximately $25.9 million, which may be used to offset future taxable income. The NOL carryforwards expire through 2034. We also had foreign NOL carryforwards of $0.9 million, which may be used to offset future taxable income in foreign jurisdictions until they expire, through 2018. Net Income (Loss) Per Share We calculate basic earnings per share (EPS) by dividing earnings available to common shareholders for the period by the weighted average number of common shares and vested, undelivered restricted stock awards. Because the holders of unvested restricted stock awards do not have nonforfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents, we do not consider these awards to be participating securities that should be included in our computation of earnings per share under the two-class method. Diluted EPS is computed using the weighted-average number of common shares and vested, undelivered restricted stock awards during the period, plus the dilutive effect of potential future issuances of common stock relating to stock option programs and other potentially dilutive securities using the treasury stock method. In calculating diluted EPS, the dilutive effect of stock options and restricted stock awards is computed using the average market price for the respective period. In addition, the assumed proceeds under the treasury stock method include the average unrecognized compensation expense and assumed tax benefit of stock options and restricted stock awards that are in-the-money. This results in the assumed buyback of additional shares, thereby reducing the dilutive impact of stock options. Results of Operations The following table sets forth our results of operations for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 ($ in thousands) Revenues: Online $ 22,080 96 % $ 18,475 95 % Events 897 4 1,073 5 Total revenues 22,977 100 19,548 100 Cost of revenues: Online 6,090 27 5,928 30 Events 547 2 676 4 Total cost of revenues 6,637 29 6,604 34 Gross profit 16,340 71 12,944 66 Operating expenses: Selling and marketing 9,746 42 9,120 47 Product development 1,605 7 1,741 9 General and administrative 3,332 15 3,307 17 Depreciation 989 4 872 4 Amortization of intangible assets 451 2 734 4 Total operating expenses 16,123 70 15,774 81 Operating income (loss) 217 1 (2,830 ) (14 ) Interest (expense) income, net (10 ) * 3 * Income (loss) before provision for (benefit from) income taxes 207 1 (2,827 ) (14 ) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 72 * (1,285 ) (7 ) Net income (loss) $ 135 1 % $ (1,542 ) (8 )% * Not meaningful 26 Table of Contents Comparison of Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 and 2013 Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 Increase (Decrease) Percent Change ($ in thousands) Revenues: Online $ 22,080 $ 18,475 $ 3,605 20 % Events 897 1,073 (176 ) (16 ) Total revenues $ 22,977 $ 19,548 $ 3,429 18 % Online. The increase in online revenue was primarily attributable to a $3.4 million increase in revenues from new product offerings, primarily IT Deal Alert, while the lead generation and branding offerings remain relatively flat as compared to the same quarter in the prior year. Events. The decrease in events revenue is primarily due to a reduction in the number of custom events and seminars that we conducted. Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 Increase (Decrease) Percent Change ($ in thousands) Cost of revenues: Online $ 6,090 $ 5,928 $ 162 3 % Events 547 676 (129 ) (19 ) Total cost of revenues $ 6,637 $ 6,604 $ 33 0 % Gross profit $ 16,340 $ 12,944 $ 3,396 26 % Gross profit percentage 71 % 66 % Cost of Online Revenues. The increase in cost of online revenues was primarily attributable to costs related to new product offerings. Cost of Events Revenues. The decrease in cost of events revenues was primarily due to decreases in variable direct and employee-related costs as a result of the decrease in the number of events that we conducted. Gross Profit. Our gross profit is equal to the difference between our revenues and our cost of revenues for the period. Gross profit for the first quarter of 2014 was 71% as compared to 66% in the first quarter of 2013. The increase in online gross profit was $3.4 million, primarily attributable to the increase in online revenue, offset in part by a decrease in events gross profit, primarily as a result of the lower events revenues. Because the majority of our costs are labor-related, we expect our gross profit to fluctuate from period to period based on changes in the total revenues for the period. The relative contribution of online and events revenues to our total revenues will also cause fluctuation in our gross profit from period to period. Operating Expenses and Other Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 Increase (Decrease) Percent Change ($ in thousands) Operating expenses: Selling and marketing $ 9,746 $ 9,120 $ 626 7 % Product development 1,605 1,741 (136 ) (8 ) General and administrative 3,332 3,307 25 1 Depreciation 989 872 117 13 Amortization of intangible assets 451 734 (283 ) (39 ) Total operating expenses $ 16,123 $ 15,774 $ 349 2 % Interest (expense) income, net $ (10 ) $ 3 $ (13 ) (433 )% Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 72 $ (1,285 ) $ 1,357 106 % 27 Table of Contents Selling and Marketing . Selling and marketing expenses increased for the three months ended March 31, 2014 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2013 primarily due to an increase in compensation-related expenses caused by the increase in revenues and international expansion. Product Development. The decrease in product development expense was primarily caused by a reduction in compensation and allocated costs due to reduced headcount year over year, offset in part by a reduction in the amount of these costs that were capitalized year over year. General and Administrative . General and administrative expense for the three months ended March 31, 2014 remained relatively flat year over year, with increased legal and corporate compliance fees being offset in part by favorable foreign currency exchange rates. Depreciation and Amortization of Intangible Assets . The increase in depreciation expense is related to an increase in our fixed asset base, primarily as a result of our continued investment in internal-use software development costs and computer equipment. The decrease in amortization of intangible assets expense was attributable to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized during 2013. Interest Income, Net. The decrease in interest income, net, is due to the amortization of a discount on installment payments related to the purchase of LeMagIT in the fourth quarter of 2012. Provision for Income Taxes. Our effective income tax rate was 34.7% and 45.4% for the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The lower rate in the three months ended March 31, 2014 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2013 is primarily due to differences in the geographic mix of pre-tax income and non-deductible stock-based compensation. The effective income tax rate is based upon the estimated annual effective tax rate in compliance with ASC 740, Income Taxes , and other related guidance. We update the estimate of our annual effective tax rate at the end of each quarterly period. Our estimate takes into account estimations of annual pre-tax income, the geographic mix of pre-tax income and interpretations of tax laws. The first quarter of 2014 income tax rate was based on projections for the year. Seasonality The timing of our revenues is affected by seasonal factors. Our revenues are seasonal primarily as a result of the annual budget approval process of many of our customers, the normal timing at which our customers have their new product introductions, and the historical decrease in advertising and events activity in summer months. Events revenue may vary depending on which quarters we produce the event, which may vary when compared to previous periods. The timing of revenues in relation to our expenses, much of which does not vary directly with revenue, has an impact on the cost of online revenues, selling and marketing, product development, and general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue in each calendar quarter during the year. The majority of our expenses are personnel-related and include salaries, stock-based compensation, benefits and incentive-based compensation plan expenses. As a result, we have not experienced significant seasonal fluctuations in the timing of our expenses period to period. Liquidity and Capital Resources Resources As of March 31, 2014, we had $46.7 million of working capital, and our cash and cash equivalents totaled $32.3 million. Our cash, cash equivalents and investments decreased $1.5 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2014, primarily from cash used by our operations and our investing activities, primarily for purchases of property and equipment, offset in part by cash provided by our financing activities, primarily proceeds from the exercise of stock options. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, and investments, our cash flow from operating activities and available bank borrowings will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months. Our future working capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the operations of our existing business, our potential strategic expansion internationally, future acquisitions we might undertake, and the expansion into complementary businesses. To the extent that our cash and cash equivalents, investments and cash flow from operating activities are insufficient to fund our future activities, we may need to raise additional funds through bank credit arrangements or public or private equity or debt financings. We also may need to raise additional funds in the event we determine in the future to effect one or more additional acquisitions of businesses. March 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 ($ in thousands) Cash, cash equivalents and investments $ 32,301 $ 33,772 Accounts receivable, net $ 25,394 $ 22,116 28 Table of Contents Cash, Cash Equivalents and Investments Our cash, cash equivalents and investments at March 31, 2014 were held for working capital purposes and were invested primarily in money market accounts, municipal bonds and government agency bonds. We do not enter into investments for trading or speculative purposes. Accounts Receivable, Net Our accounts receivable balance fluctuates from period to period, which affects our cash flow from operating activities. The fluctuations vary depending on the timing of our service delivery and billing activity, cash collections, and changes to our allowance for doubtful accounts. We use days sales outstanding, (DSO), as a measurement of the quality and status of our receivables. We define DSO as net accounts receivable at quarter end divided by total revenue for the applicable period, multiplied by the number of days in the applicable period. DSO was 99 days for the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 86 days at December 31, 2013. The increase in DSO is primarily due to the timing of payments from customers. Cash Flows Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 ($ in thousands) Net cash used in operating activities $ (1,152 ) $ (4,442 ) Net cash used in investing activities (1) $ (1,164 ) $ (1,151 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 992 $ (8,741 ) (1) Cash used in investing activities is shown net of investment activity of $(1.6) million and $(8.7) million for the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Operating Activities Cash used in operating activities primarily consists of net income (loss) adjusted for certain non-cash items including depreciation and amortization, the provision for bad debt, stock-based compensation, deferred income taxes, and the effect of changes in working capital and other activities. Cash used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2014 was $1.2 million compared to $4.4 million in the three months ended March 31, 2013. The decrease in cash used in operating activities was primarily due to having net income of $0.1 million during the first three months of 2014 compared to a $1.5 million net loss during the first three months of 2013. The decrease in cash used in operating activities is also a result of changes in operating assets and liabilities of $(4.0) million in the first three months of 2014 compared to $(5.7) million in the first three months of 2013. Significant components of the changes in assets and liabilities included an increase in prepaids and other current assets of $1.7 million in 2014 as compared with an increase of $4.2 million in 2013, primarily caused by increases in tax and benefits-related receivables in the first quarter of 2013; a $0.2 million decrease in income taxes payable in 2014 as compared with a $0.8 million decrease in 2013 because of payments made in the first quarter of 2013; and a $0.4 million increase in other liabilities in the first quarter of 2014 resulting from changes in deferred taxes and contingent liabilities. These changes were offset in part by a $3.4 million increase in accounts receivable during the first three months of 2014 compared to an increase of $1.5 million in the first three months of 2013, caused by the increased revenues year over year. 29 Table of Contents Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities in the three months ended March 31, 2014, net of investment activity, was $1.2 million, primarily for the purchase of property and equipment made up primarily of website development costs, computer equipment and related software and internal-use development costs. Equity Financing Activities We received proceeds from the exercise of stock options in the amounts of $0.6 million and $0.9 million in the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. On August 3, 2012, our Board of Directors authorized a $20 million stock repurchase program (the Program). We were authorized to repurchase our common stock from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. The timing and amount of any shares of common stock repurchased was determined based on an evaluation of market conditions and other factors. We elected to implement a Rule 10b5-1 trading plan to make such purchases, which permits shares of common stock to be repurchased when we might otherwise be precluded from doing so under insider trading laws. The Program was terminated immediately prior to the commencement of a tender offer on September 25, 2013. During the three months ended March 31, 2013 we repurchased 2,093,551 shares of common stock for approximately $10.1 million pursuant to the Program. During the year ended December 31, 2013 we repurchased 2,610,279 shares of common stock for approximately $12.4 million pursuant to the Program. Additionally, we accepted for purchase 7,100,565 shares of our common stock for a total cost of $35.6 million, which includes approximately $0.1 million in fees and expenses, pursuant to the tender offer. All repurchased shares were funded with cash on hand. Tender Offer On September 25, 2013, we commenced a tender offer to purchase up to 6.5 million shares of our common stock at a price of $5.00 per share. The tender offer expired on October 24, 2013. In accordance with applicable SEC regulations and the terms of the tender offer, we exercised the right to purchase additional shares of common stock and accepted for purchase 7,100,565 shares of our common stock for a total cost of $35.6 million, which includes approximately $0.1 million in fees and expenses. Pursuant to the terms of the tender offer, we purchased 2,250,000 shares of common stock from entities affiliated with Technology Crossover Ventures and 2,300,040 shares of common stock from entities affiliated with Polaris Venture Partners. Term Loan and Credit Facility Borrowings In August 2006, we entered into a credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) with a commercial bank, which included a $10.0 million term loan (the Term Loan) and a $20.0 million revolving credit facility (the Revolving Credit Facility). The Credit Agreement was amended in August 2007, in December 2008, in December 2009 and again in August 2011. The amendment in 2009 reduced the Revolving Credit Facility to $5.0 million. We paid off the remaining balance of the Term Loan in December 2009. The amendment in August 2011 extended the term of the facility and adjusted certain other financial terms and covenants. The Revolving Credit Facility matures on August 31, 2016. Unless earlier payment is required by an event of default, all principal and unpaid interest will be due and payable on August 31, 2016. At our option, the Revolving Credit Facility bears interest at either the prime rate less 1.00% or the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus the applicable LIBOR margin. The applicable LIBOR margin is based on the ratio of total funded debt to EBITDA for the preceding four fiscal quarters. As of March 31, 2014, the applicable LIBOR margin was 1.25%. We are also required to pay an unused line fee on the daily unused amount of our Revolving Credit Facility at a per annum rate based on the ratio of total funded debt to EBITDA for the preceding four fiscal quarters. As of March 31, 2014, unused availability under the Revolving Credit Facility totaled $4.0 million and the per annum unused line fee rate was 0.20%. As of March 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013 there were no amounts outstanding under the revolving loan portion of our Revolving Credit Facility. There was a $1.0 million standby letter of credit related to our corporate headquarters lease that is outstanding at March 31, 2014, bringing our available borrowings on the $5.0 million facility to $4.0 million. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement are collateralized by a security interest in substantially all of our assets. Covenants governing the Credit Agreement include the maintenance of certain financial ratios. As of March 31, 2014, we were in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreement. 30 Table of Contents Capital Expenditures We have made capital expenditures primarily for computer equipment and related software needed to host our websites, internal-use software development costs, as well as for leasehold improvements and other general purposes to support our growth. Our capital expenditures totaled $1.1 million for both the three month periods ended March 31, 2014 and 2013. A majority of our capital expenditures in the first quarter of 2014 were internal-use development costs and, to a lesser extent, computer equipment and related software. We are not currently party to any purchase contracts related to future capital expenditures. Contractual Obligations and Commitments As of March 31, 2014, our principal commitments consist of obligations under leases for office space. The offices are leased under non-cancelable operating lease agreements that expire through 2020. The following table sets forth our commitments to settle contractual obligations in cash as of March 31, 2014: Payments Due By Period Total Less than 1 Year 1 - 3 Years 3 - 5 Years More than 5 Years (Unaudited) ($ in thousands) Operating leases $ 21,210 $ 3,281 $ 7,233 $ 6,694 $ 4,002 At March 31, 2014, we had an irrevocable standby letter of credit outstanding in the aggregate amount of $1.0 million. This letter of credit supports the lease we entered into in 2009 for our corporate headquarters. This letter of credit, subject to certain reductions, extends annually through February 28, 2020 unless notification of termination is received. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information with respect to our operating leases. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding future payments related to the LeMagIT acquisition. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for recent accounting pronouncements that could have an effect on us.