Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in this report and the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010. Reclassifications In 2011, the Company changed the manner in which it allocates real estate facilities costs to align with actual departmental headcount. Previously, these costs were all included as a part of general and administrative expenses. Amounts in the prior years financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. In Q1 2010 this resulted in additional online cost of sales, events cost of sales, sales and marketing and product development expense of $406, $73, $498 and $170, respectively, offset by a decrease in general and administrative expense of $1.1 million. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Revenue Recognition The Company generates substantially all of its revenue from the sale of targeted advertising campaigns that are delivered via its network of websites and events. Revenue is recognized only when the price is fixed or determinable, persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the service is performed and collectability of the resulting receivable is reasonably assured. Although each of the Companys online media offerings can be sold separately, the majority of the Companys online media sales involve multiple online offerings, which are described in more detail below. During fiscal 2010 and prior, because objective evidence of fair value did not exist for all elements in the Companys bundled advertising campaigns, no allocation could be made among the various elements, so the Company recognized revenue on all units of accounting ratably over the term of the arrangement. In September 2009, the FASB ratified Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2009-13, Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables , which updates the existing multiple-element revenue arrangements guidance included in ASC 605-25. ASU 2009-13 requires companies to allocate the overall consideration to each deliverable by using a best estimate of selling price of individual deliverables in the arrangement in the absence of vendor-specific objective evidence or other third party evidence of selling price. The Company adopted the new standard, beginning on January 1, 2011, on a prospective basis. Because neither vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value nor third party evidence of selling price exists for all elements in the Companys bundled advertising campaigns, the Company uses an estimated selling price which represents managements best estimate of the stand-alone selling price of deliverables for each deliverable in an arrangement. The Company uses the relative selling price method to allocate consideration at the inception of the arrangement to each deliverable in a multiple element arrangement. The relative selling price method allocates any discount in the arrangement proportionately to each deliverable on the basis of the deliverables selling price. Revenue is then recognized as delivery occurs. For content assets posted on websites, revenue recognition is generally over the period the content asset is available. The Company has concluded that adoption of this standard did not materially affect results in the first quarter of 2011, nor is it expected to materially affect future periods. Event Sponsorships. Revenue from vendor-sponsored events, whether sponsored exclusively by a single vendor or in a multi-vendor sponsored event, is recognized upon completion of the event in the period the event occurs. The majority of the Companys events are free to qualified attendees; however, certain events are based on a paid attendee model. The Company recognizes revenue for paid attendee events upon completion of the event and receipt of payment from the attendee. Amounts collected or billed prior to satisfying the above revenue recognition criteria are recorded as deferred revenue. 7 Table of Contents Online Media. Revenue for online media offerings is recognized for specific online media offerings as follows when these items are sold separately: White Papers. White paper revenue is recognized ratably over the period in which the white paper is available on the Companys websites. Webcasts, Podcasts, Videocasts and Virtual Trade Shows. Webcast, podcast, videocast, virtual trade show and similar content revenue is recognized ratably over the period in which the webcast, podcast, videocast or virtual trade show is available on the Companys websites. Custom Media . Custom media revenue is recognized ratably over the period in which the custom media asset is available on the Companys websites. Promotional E-mails and E-newsletters. Promotional e-mail revenue is recognized ratably over the period in which the related content asset is available on its websites because promotional e-mails do not have standalone value from the related content asset. E-newsletter revenue is recognized in the period in which the e-newsletter is sent. List Rentals. List rental revenue is recognized in the period in which the e-mail is sent to the list of registered members. Banners. Banner revenue is recognized in the period in which the banner impressions occur. Third Party Revenue Sharing Arrangements. Revenue from third party revenue sharing arrangements is recognized on a net basis in the period in which the services are performed. Amounts collected or billed prior to satisfying the above revenue recognition criteria are recorded as deferred revenue. Fair Value of Financial Instruments Financial instruments consist of cash and cash equivalents, short and long-term investments, accounts receivable and accounts payable. The carrying value of these instruments approximates their estimated fair values. Long-lived Assets Long-lived assets consist primarily of property and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets. A specifically identified intangible asset must be recorded as a separate asset from goodwill if either of the following two criteria is met: (1) the intangible asset acquired arises from contractual or other legal rights; or (2) the intangible asset is separable. Accordingly, intangible assets consist of specifically identified intangible assets. Goodwill is the excess of any purchase price over the estimated fair market value of net tangible assets acquired not allocated to specific intangible assets. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized, but are reviewed annually for impairment or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. Separable intangible assets that are not deemed to have an indefinite life are amortized over their estimated useful lives, which range from one to nine years, using methods of amortization that are expected to reflect the estimated pattern of economic use, and are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances suggest that the assets may not be recoverable. The Company performs its annual test of impairment of goodwill on December 31st of each year, and whenever events or changes in circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Based on this evaluation, the Company believes that, as of each of the balance sheet dates presented, none of the Companys goodwill or other long-lived assets was impaired. Internal-Use Software and Website Development Costs The Company capitalizes costs incurred during the development of its website applications and infrastructure as well as certain costs relating to internal-use software. The estimated useful life of costs capitalized is evaluated for each specific project. Capitalized internal-use software and website development costs are reviewed for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. An impairment loss shall be recognized only if the carrying amount of the asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The Company capitalized internal-use software and website development costs of $0.8 million and $0.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 8 Table of Contents Income Taxes The Companys deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized based on temporary differences between the financial reporting and income tax bases of assets and liabilities using statutory rates. If required, a valuation allowance is established against net deferred tax assets if, based upon available evidence, it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The Company recognizes any interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in income tax expense. Stock-Based Compensation At March 31, 2011, the Company had two stock-based employee compensation plans which are more fully described in Note 10. Stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized in the Statement of Operations using the straight-line method over the vesting period of the award or using the accelerated method if the award is contingent upon performance goals. The Company uses the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to determine the fair value of stock option awards. Net Income (Loss) Per Share Basic earnings per share is computed based on the weighted average number of common shares and vested restricted stock awards outstanding during the period. Because the holders of unvested restricted stock awards do not have nonforfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents, the Company does not consider these awards to be participating securities that should be included in its computation of earnings per share under the two-class method. Diluted earnings per share is computed using the weighted average number of common shares and vested restricted stock awards outstanding during the period, plus the dilutive effect of potential future issuances of common stock relating to stock option programs and other potentially dilutive securities using the treasury stock method. In calculating diluted earnings per share, the dilutive effect of stock options is computed using the average market price for the respective period. In addition, the assumed proceeds under the treasury stock method include the average unrecognized compensation expense and assumed tax benefit of stock options that are in-the-money. This results in the assumed buyback of additional shares, thereby reducing the dilutive impact of stock options. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In September 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) ratified Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2009-13 (ASU 2009-13) (previously Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 08-1, Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables (EITF 08-1)), which updates the existing multiple-element revenue arrangements guidance currently included in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 605-25. ASU 2009-13 requires companies to allocate the overall consideration to each deliverable by using a best estimate of the selling price of individual deliverables in the arrangement in the absence of vendor-specific objective evidence or other third-party evidence of the selling price. ASU 2009-13 is effective prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010 and early adoption is permitted. The Company has adopted the new standard on January 1, 2011 and has concluded that adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on its consolidated results of operations and financial condition. In October 2009, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update 2009-14, Certain Revenue Arrangements That Include Software Elements (ASU 2009-14). ASU 2009-14 amends guidance included within ASC Topic 985-605 to exclude tangible products containing software components and non-software components that function together to deliver the products essential functionality. Entities that sell joint hardware and software products that meet this scope exception will be required to follow the guidance of ASU 2009-13. ASU 2009-14 is effective prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010. Early adoption and retrospective application are also permitted. The Company determined that adopting the provisions of ASU 2009-14 did not impact its consolidated financial statements. In December 2009, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update 2009-17, Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest Entities (ASU 2009-17). ASU 2009-17 changes how a reporting entity determines when an entity that is insufficiently capitalized or is not controlled through voting (or similar rights) should be consolidated. The determination of whether a reporting entity is required to consolidate another entity is based on, among other things, the other entitys purpose and design and the reporting entitys ability to direct the activities of the other entity that most significantly impact the other entitys economic performance. The new standard requires a number of new disclosures, including additional disclosures about the reporting entitys involvement with variable interest entities and any significant changes in risk exposure due to that involvement. A reporting entity is required to disclose how its involvement with a variable interest entity affects the reporting entitys financial statements. ASU 2009-17 is effective at the start of a reporting entitys first fiscal year beginning after November 15, 2009, or January 1, 2010, for a calendar year-end entity. The adoption of the new standard did not have an overall impact to the Companys financial statements. 9 Table of Contents Accounting Standards Update 2009-05, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (Topic 820)Measuring Liabilities at Fair Value allows entities determining the fair value of a liability to use the perspective of an investor that holds the related obligation as an asset. The ASU is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after August 27, 2009 , and applies to all fair value measurements of liabilities required by GAAP. Additionally, effective January 1, 2010, the Company adopted ASU 2010-06, Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements , which requires additional disclosures regarding assets and liabilities measured at fair value. The adoption of these requirements did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In February 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-09, which amends the Subsequent Events Topic of the ASC to eliminate the requirement for public companies to disclose the date through which subsequent events have been evaluated. The Company will continue to evaluate subsequent events through the date of the issuance of the financial statements; however, consistent with the guidance, this date will no longer be disclosed. This change did not affect the Companys consolidated financial statements. In December 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-29, Disclosure of Supplementary Pro Forma Information for Business Combinations (Topic 805), which specifies that if a public entity presents financial statements, the entity should disclose revenue and earnings of the combined entity as though the business combination(s) that occurred during the year occurred as of the beginning of the comparable prior annual reporting period only. This ASU also expands the supplemental pro forma disclosure. The ASU is effective for business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2010. 3. Fair Value Measurements The Company measures certain financial assets at fair value on a recurring basis, including cash equivalents, and short and long-term investments. The fair value of these financial assets was determined based on three levels of input as follows: Level 1. Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities; Level 2. Observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets; and Level 3. Unobservable inputs. The fair value hierarchy of the Companys financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value and measured on a recurring basis is as follows: Fair Value Measurements at Reporting Date Using Quoted Prices in Active Significant Markets for Other Significant Identical Observable Unobservable March 31, Assets Inputs Inputs 2011 (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) (Unaudited) Money market funds(1) $ 25,095 $ 25,095 $ $ Short-term investments(2) 9,092 9,092 Long-term investments(2) 6,840 6,840 Total $ 41,027 $ 25,095 $ 15,932 $ Fair Value Measurements at Reporting Date Using Quoted Prices in Active Significant Markets for Other Significant Identical Observable Unobservable December 31, Assets Inputs Inputs 2010 (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) Money market funds(1) $ 23,375 $ 23,375 $ $ Short-term investments(2) 17,550 17,550 Long-term investments(2) Total $ 40,925 $ 23,375 $ 17,550 $ (1) Included in cash and cash equivalents on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets; valued at quoted market prices in active markets. (2) Our short and long-term investments consist of government agency and municipal bonds; their fair value is calculated using an interest rate yield curve for similar instruments. 10 Table of Contents 4. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Investments Cash and cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less at date of purchase. Cash equivalents are carried at cost, which approximates their fair market value. Cash and cash equivalents consisted of the following: March 31, December 31, 2011 2010 (Unaudited) Cash $ 9,484 $ 9,209 Money market funds 25,095 23,375 Total cash and cash equivalents $ 34,579 $ 32,584 The Companys short and long-term investments are accounted for as available for sale securities. These investments are recorded at fair value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income, a component of stockholders equity, net of tax. The unrealized (loss) gain, net of taxes, was $(1) and $(5) as of March 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. Realized gains and losses on the sale of these investments are determined using the specific identification method. There were no realized gains during the three months ended March 31, 2011 or 2010. Short and long-term investments consisted of the following: March 31, 2011 Gross Gross Unrealized Unrealized Estimated Cost Gains Losses Fair Value (Unaudited) Short and long-term investments: Government agency bonds $ $ $ $ Municipal bonds 15,933 6 (7 ) 15,932 Total short and long-term investments $ 15,933 $ 6 $ (7 ) $ 15,932 December 31, 2010 Gross Gross Unrealized Unrealized Estimated Cost Gains Losses Fair Value Short and long-term investments: Government agency bonds $ 2,008 $ 1 $ $ 2,009 Municipal bonds 15,550 2 (11 ) 15,541 Total short and long-term investments $ 17,558 $ 3 $ (11 ) $ 17,550 The Company had 7 debt securities in an unrealized loss position at March 31, 2011. All of these securities have been in such a position for less than 12 months. The unrealized loss on those securities was approximately $7 thousand and the fair value was $11.4 million. As of March 31, 2011, the Company does not consider these investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired. Municipal bonds have contractual maturity dates within eighteen months. All income generated from these investments is recorded as interest income. 11 Table of Contents 5. Intangible Assets Intangible assets subject to amortization as of March 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 consist of the following: As of March 31, 2011 Estimated Gross Useful Lives Carrying Accumulated (Years) Amount Amortization Net (Unaudited) Customer, affiliate and advertiser relationships 1 - 9 $ 12,879 $ (8,179 ) $ 4,700 Developed websites 3 - 6 5,400 (3,525 ) 1,875 Trademark, trade name and domain name 1 - 7 2,373 (1,589 ) 784 Proprietary user information database and Internet traffic 3 - 5 5,400 (3,589 ) 1,811 Non-compete agreements 1 - 3 1,573 (1,359 ) 214 Total intangible assets $ 27,625 $ (18,241 ) $ 9,384 As of December 31, 2010 Estimated Gross Useful Lives Carrying Accumulated (Years) Amount Amortization Net Customer, affiliate and advertiser relationships 1 - 9 $ 12,879 $ (7,654 ) $ 5,225 Developed websites 3 - 6 5,400 (3,300 ) 2,100 Trademark, trade name and domain name 1 - 7 2,373 (1,526 ) 847 Proprietary user information database and Internet traffic 3 - 5 5,400 (3,354 ) 2,046 Non-compete agreements 1 - 3 1,573 (1,322 ) 251 Total intangible assets $ 27,625 $ (17,156 ) $ 10,469 Intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives, which range from one to nine years, using methods of amortization that are expected to reflect the estimated pattern of economic use. The remaining amortization expense will be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 2.34 years. Amortization expense was $1.1 million for each of the three month periods ended March 31, 2011 and 2010. Amortization expense is recorded within operating expenses as the intangible assets consist of customer-related assets and website traffic that the Company considers to be in support of selling and marketing activities. The Company expects amortization expense of intangible assets to be as follows: Amortization Years Ending December 31: Expense (Unaudited) 2011 (April 1st December 31st) $ 2,613 2012 2,935 2013 1,430 2014 1,051 2015 804 Thereafter 551 $ 9,384 12 Table of Contents 6. Net Loss Per Common Share A reconciliation of the numerator and denominator used in the calculation of basic and diluted net loss per common share is as follows: For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2011 2010 (Unaudited) Numerator: Net loss $ (75 ) $ (2,340 ) Denominator: Basic: Weighted average shares of common stock outstanding 37,940,422 42,479,994 Diluted: Weighted average shares of common stock outstanding 37,940,422 42,479,994 Effect of potentially dilutive shares (1) Total weighted average shares of common stock outstanding 37,940,422 42,479,994 Net Loss Per Common Share: Basic net loss per common share $ (0.00 ) $ (0.06 ) Diluted net loss per common share $ (0.00 ) $ (0.06 ) (1) In calculating diluted earnings per share, shares related to outstanding stock options, unvested restricted stock awards and warrants were excluded for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 because they were anti-dilutive. 7. Bank Term Loan Payable In August 2006, the Company entered into a credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) with a commercial bank, which included a $10.0 million term loan (the Term Loan) and a $20.0 million revolving credit facility (the Revolving Credit Facility). The Credit Agreement was amended in August 2007, in December 2008 and again in December 2009. The amendment in 2009 reduced the Revolving Credit Facility to $5.0 million. The Company paid off the remaining balance of the Term Loan in December 2009. The Revolving Credit Facility matures on August 30, 2011. Unless earlier payment is required by an event of default, all principal and unpaid interest will be due and payable on August 30, 2011. At the Companys option, the Revolving Credit Facility bears interest at either the Prime Rate less 1.00% or the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus the applicable LIBOR margin. The applicable LIBOR margin is based on the ratio of total funded debt to earnings before interest, other income and expense, income taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) for the preceding four fiscal quarters. As of March 31, 2011, the applicable LIBOR margin, which was the operative rate during the quarter ended March 31, 2011, was 1.25%. The Company is also required to pay an unused line fee on the daily unused amount of its Revolving Credit Facility at a per annum rate based on the ratio of total funded debt to EBITDA for the preceding four fiscal quarters. As of March 31, 2011, unused availability under the Revolving Credit Facility totaled $3.5 million and the per annum unused line fee rate was 0.20%. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement are collateralized by a security interest in substantially all assets of the Company. Covenants governing the Credit Agreement include the maintenance of certain financial ratios. At March 31, 2011 the Company was in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreement. At March 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 there were no amounts outstanding under this revolving loan agreement. There was a $1.5 million standby letter of credit related to the Companys corporate headquarters lease that was outstanding at March 31, 2011, bringing our available borrowings on the $5.0 million facility to $3.5 million. 13 Table of Contents 8. Commitments and Contingencies Operating Leases The Company conducts its operations in leased office facilities under various non-cancelable operating lease agreements that expire through March 2020. Future minimum lease payments under the Companys non-cancelable operating leases at March 31, 2011 are as follows: Minimum Lease Years Ending December 31: Payments (Unaudited) 2011 (April 1st December 31st) $ 2,987 2012 4,068 2013 3,161 2014 3,172 2015 3,191 Thereafter 13,957 $ 30,536 The Company has an irrevocable standby letter of credit outstanding in the aggregate amount of $1.5 million. This letter of credit supports the lease the Company entered into in 2009 for its corporate headquarters. This letter of credit extends, subject to certain reductions, annually through February 28, 2020 unless notification of termination is received. Net Worth Tax Contingency In late March 2010, the Company received a letter from the Department of Revenue of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts (the MA DOR) requesting documentation demonstrating that TechTarget Securities Corporation (TSC), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, has been classified by the MA DOR as a Massachusetts security corporation. Based on subsequent correspondence with the MA DOR, it is the Companys current expectation that it is probable that the MA DOR will require an adjustment to correct TSCs tax filings such that it will be treated as a Massachusetts business corporation for the applicable years. As such, for the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company recorded a liability of approximately $200, representing their best estimate of the potential net worth tax exposure. The tax benefits available to a Massachusetts security corporation are comprised of (i) lower income tax rate (1.32% vs. 9.5%) and (ii) exemption from the 0.26% excise tax on net worth. The Company attended a settlement conference with the MA DOR on March 22, 2011. As of the date of this filing, the Company is awaiting a response from the MA DOR on the positions it presented at that conference. The Company believes that if this matter is not settled, it has meritorious defenses which it intends to vigorously assert. Litigation From time to time and in the ordinary course of business, the Company may be subject to various claims, charges, and litigation. At March 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, the Company did not have any pending claims, charges, or litigation that it expects would have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 14 Table of Contents 9. Comprehensive Loss Comprehensive loss includes all changes in equity during a period, except those resulting from investments by stockholders and distributions to stockholders. For the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 the Companys comprehensive loss is as follows: For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2011 2010 (Unaudited) Net loss $ (75 ) $ (2,340 ) Other comprehensive loss: Unrealized gain (loss) on investments (net of tax effect of $2 and ($29), respectively) 4 (41 ) Unrealized gain (loss) on foreign currency exchange 17 (14 ) Total other comprehensive loss $ (54 ) $ (2,395 ) 10. Stock-Based Compensation Stock Option Plans In September 1999, the Company approved a stock option plan (the 1999 Plan) that provides for the issuance of up to 12,384,646 shares of common stock incentives. The 1999 Plan provides for the granting of incentive stock options (ISOs), nonqualified stock options (NSOs), and stock grants. These incentives may be offered to the Companys employees, officers, directors, consultants, and advisors, as defined. ISOs may not be granted at less than fair market value on the date of grant, as determined by the Companys Board of Directors (the Board). Each option shall be exercisable at such times and subject to such terms as determined by the Board; grants generally vest over a four year period, and expire no later than ten years after the grant date. In April 2007, the Board approved the 2007 Stock Option and Incentive Plan (the 2007 Plan), which was approved by the stockholders and became effective upon the consummation of the Companys IPO in May 2007. Effective upon the consummation of the IPO, no further awards were made pursuant to the 1999 Plan, but any outstanding awards under the 1999 Plan will remain in effect and will continue to be subject to the terms of the 1999 Plan. The 2007 Plan allows the Company to grant ISOs, NSOs, stock appreciation rights, deferred stock awards, restricted stock and other awards. Under the 2007 Plan, stock options may not be granted at less than fair market value on the date of grant, and grants generally vest over a four year period. Stock options granted under the 2007 Plan expire no later than ten years after the grant date. The Company has reserved for issuance an aggregate of 2,911,667 shares of common stock under the 2007 Plan plus an additional annual increase to be added automatically on January 1 of each year, beginning on January 1, 2008, equal to the lesser of (a) 2% of the outstanding number of shares of common stock (on a fully-diluted basis) on the immediately preceding December 31 and (b) such lower number of shares as may be determined by the Companys compensation committee. The number of shares available for issuance under the 2007 Plan is subject to adjustment in the event of a stock split, stock dividend or other change in capitalization. Generally, shares that are forfeited or canceled from awards under the 2007 Plan also will be available for future awards. In addition, shares subject to stock options returned to the 1999 Plan, as a result of their expiration, cancellation or termination, are automatically made available for issuance under the 2007 Plan. As of March 31, 2011 a total of 1,296,705 shares were available for grant under the 2007 Plan. Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation The Company uses the Black-Scholes option pricing model to calculate the grant-date fair value of an award. The Company calculated the fair values of the options granted using the following estimated weighted-average assumptions: Three Months Ended March 31, 2011 2010 Expected volatility 79 % 78 % Expected term 6.25 years 6.25 years Risk-free interest rate 2.30 % 2.85 % Expected dividend yield 0.00 % 0.00 % Weighted-average grant date fair value per share $ 5.16 $ 3.89 15 Table of Contents As there was no public market for the Companys common stock prior to the Companys IPO in May 2007, and limited historical information on the volatility of its common stock since the date of the Companys IPO, the Company determined the volatility for options granted in the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 based on an analysis of the historical volatility of the Companys stock and reported data for a peer group of companies that issued options with substantially similar terms. The expected volatility of options granted has been determined using a weighted average of the historical volatility of the Companys stock and the peer group of companies for a period equal to the expected life of the option. The expected life of options has been determined utilizing the simplified method. The risk-free interest rate is based on a zero coupon United States treasury instrument whose term is consistent with the expected life of the stock options. The Company has not paid and does not anticipate paying cash dividends on its shares of common stock; therefore, the expected dividend yield is assumed to be zero. The Company applied an estimated annual forfeiture rate based on its historical forfeiture experience of 2.00% in determining the expense recorded in the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010. A summary of the stock option activity under the Companys stock option plan for the three months ended March 31, 2011 is presented below: Weighted- Weighted- Average Average Remaining Options Exercise Price Contractual Aggregate Year-to-Date Activity Outstanding Per Share Term in Years Intrinsic Value (Unaudited) Options outstanding at December 31, 2010 7,095,090 $ 6.41 Granted 20,000 7.37 Exercised (103,618 ) 5.40 Forfeited (35,000 ) 5.18 Cancelled (7,282 ) 10.84 Options outstanding at March 31, 2011 6,969,190 $ 6.43 5.4 $ 20,502 Options exercisable at March 31, 2011 5,836,098 $ 6.42 4.8 $ 17,274 Options vested or expected to vest at March 31, 2011(1) 6,915,538 $ 6.43 5.4 $ 20,352 (1) In addition to the vested options, the Company expects a portion of the unvested options to vest at some point in the future. Options expected to vest is calculated by applying an estimated forfeiture rate to the unvested options. During the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, the total intrinsic value of options exercised (i.e. the difference between the market price at exercise and the price paid by the employee to exercise the options) was $284 and $283, respectively, and the total amount of cash received from exercise of these options was $560 and $215, respectively. The total grant date fair value of stock options granted after January 1, 2006 that vested during the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 was $595 and $1.5 million, respectively. Restricted Stock Awards Restricted stock awards are valued at the market price of a share of the Companys common stock on the date of grant. A summary of the restricted stock award activity under the 2007 Stock Plan for the three months ended March 31, 2011 is presented below: Weighted- Average Grant Date Fair Value Aggregate Intrinsic Year-to-Date Activity Shares Per Share Value (Unaudited) Nonvested outstanding at December 31, 2010 2,693,453 $ 5.92 Granted 60,000 7.37 Vested (266,667 ) 5.10 Forfeited (89,638 ) 7.29 Nonvested outstanding at March 31, 2011 2,397,148 $ 5.99 $ 21,359 The total grant-date fair value of restricted stock awards that vested during the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 was $1.4 million and $1.9 million, respectively. 11. Stockholders Equity Reserved Common Stock As of March 31, 2011, the Company has reserved 11,331,647 shares of common stock for options outstanding and available for grant under stock option plans. 16 Table of Contents 12. Income Taxes Our effective tax rate was (436%) and 7% for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The provision for income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2011 includes a discrete tax expense of $71,000 related to a state tax assessment for a prior period. Our effective tax rate excluding the discrete tax expense was 71% for the three months ended March 31, 2011. The change in the effective tax rate excluding the discrete tax expense was as a result of applying the provision of ASC 740, Income Taxes , as it relates to interim periods. For the three months ended March 31, 2011, we calculated the provision for income taxes using a forecasted tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2011. For the three months ended March 31, 2010, we calculated the benefit from income taxes using a period-to-date approach. The Company recognized interest and penalties totaling $7 in income tax expense in the three months ended March 31, 2011. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company had recorded a tax reserve of approximately $400 for the potential state income tax liability arising from the difference between the income tax rates applicable for security corporations and business corporations in Massachusetts, relating to the matter described in Footnote 8. There were no changes to the reserve assessment as of March 31, 2011. Tax years 2007 through 2010 are subject to examination by the federal and state taxing authorities. There are no income tax examinations currently in process with the exception of the matter noted above related to the MA DOR. 13. Segment Information The Company views its operations and manages its business as one operating segment based on factors such as how the Company manages its operations and how its CEO and President review results and make decisions on how to allocate resources and assess performance. Geographic Data Net sales to unaffiliated customers by geographic area were as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, (unaudited) 2011 2010 North America $ 20,790 $ 19,881 International 1,776 1,162 Total $ 22,566 $ 21,043 17 Table of Contents Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes and the other financial information included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q . In this discussion and analysis, dollar, share and per share amounts are not rounded to thousands unless otherwise indicated. This discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those discussed below and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q , particularly under the heading Risk Factors. Overview Background We are a leading provider of specialized online content that brings together buyers and sellers of corporate information technology ( IT) products. We sell customized marketing programs that enable IT vendors to reach corporate IT decision makers who are actively researching specific IT purchases. Our integrated content platform consists of a network of more than 90 websites that we complement with targeted in-person events. During the critical stages of the purchase decision process, these content offerings meet IT professionals needs for expert, peer and IT vendor information, and provide a platform on which IT vendors can launch targeted marketing campaigns that generate measurable, high Return on Investment ( ROI). As IT professionals have become increasingly specialized, they have come to rely on our sector-specific websites for purchasing decision support. Our content enables IT professionals to navigate the complex and rapidly changing IT landscape where purchasing decisions can have significant financial and operational consequences. Based upon the logical clustering of our users respective job responsibilities and the marketing focus of the products that our customers are advertising, we currently categorize our content offerings across nine distinct media groups: Application Architecture and Development; Channel; CIO/IT Strategy; Data Center and Virtualization Technologies; Business Applications and Analytics; Networking; Security; Storage; and TechnologyGuide.com. Sources of Revenues We sell advertising programs to IT vendors targeting a specific audience within a particular IT sector or sub-sector. We maintain multiple points of contact with our customers to provide support throughout their organizations and the sales cycle. As a result, our customers often run multiple advertising programs with us in order to reach discrete portions of our targeted audience. There are multiple factors that can impact our customers advertising objectives and spending with us, including but not limited to, product launches, increases or decreases to their advertising budgets, the timing of key industry marketing events, responses to competitor activities and efforts to address specific marketing objectives such as creating brand awareness or generating sales leads. Our services are generally delivered under short-term contracts that run for the length of a given advertising program, typically less than 6 months in length. We generate substantially all of our revenues from the sale of targeted advertising campaigns that we deliver via our network of websites and in-person events. Online. The majority of our revenue is derived from the delivery of our online offerings. Online revenue represented approximately 90% and 88% of total revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We expect the majority of our revenues to be derived through the delivery of online offerings for the foreseeable future. As a result of our customers advertising objectives and preferences, the specific allocation of online advertising offerings sold and delivered by us, on a period by period basis, can fluctuate. Through our websites we sell a variety of online media offerings to connect IT vendors to IT professionals. Our lead generation offerings allow IT vendors to capture qualified sales leads from the distribution and promotion of content to our audience of IT professionals. Our branding offerings provide IT vendors exposure to targeted audiences of IT professionals actively researching information related to their products and services. Our branding offerings include banners and e-newsletters. Banner advertising can be purchased on specific websites within our network. We also offer the ability to advertise in e-newsletters focused on key site sub-topics across our portfolio of websites. These offerings give IT vendors the ability to increase their brand awareness to highly specialized IT sectors. 18 Table of Contents Our lead generation offerings include the following: White Papers. White papers are technical documents created by IT vendors to describe business or technical problems that are addressed by the vendors products or services. IT vendors pay us to have their white papers distributed to our users and receive targeted promotions on our relevant websites. Prior to viewing white papers, our registered members and visitors supply their corporate contact and qualification information and agree to receive further information from the vendor. The corporate contact and other qualification information for these leads are supplied to the vendor in real time through our proprietary lead management software. Webcasts, Podcasts, Videocasts, and Virtual Trade Shows. IT vendors pay us to sponsor and host webcasts, podcasts, videocasts, virtual trade shows and similar content that bring informational sessions directly to attendees desktops and, in the case of podcasts, directly to their mobile devices. As is the case with white papers, our users supply their corporate contact and qualification information to the webcast, podcast, videocast or virtual trade show sponsor when they view or download the content. Sponsorship includes access to the registrant information and visibility before, during and after the event. Promotional E-mails. IT vendors pay us to further target the promotion of their white papers, webcasts, videocasts, podcasts or similar media by including their content in our periodic e-mail updates to the relevant registered users of our websites. Users who have voluntarily registered on our websites receive an e-mail update from us when vendor content directly related to their interests is listed on our sites. List Rentals. We also offer IT vendors the ability to message relevant registered members on topics related to their interests. IT vendors can rent our e-mail and postal lists of registered members using specific criteria such as company size, geography or job title. Contextual Advertising. Our contextual advertising programs associate IT vendor white papers, webcasts, podcasts, virtual trade shows or other content on a particular topic with our related sector-specific content. IT vendors have the option to purchase exclusive sponsorship of content related to their product or category. Third Party Revenue Sharing Arrangements. We have arrangements with certain third parties, including for the licensing of our online content, for the renting of our database of opted-in e-mail subscribers and for which advertising from customers of certain third parties is made available to our website visitors. In each of these arrangements we are paid a share of the resulting revenue. Events. Events revenue represented approximately 10% and 12% of total revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Most of our media groups operate revenue generating events. The majority of our events are free to IT professionals and are sponsored by IT vendors. Attendees are pre-screened based on event-specific criteria such as sector-specific budget size, company size, or job title. We offer three types of events: multi-day conferences, single-day seminars and custom events. Multi-day conferences provide independent expert content for our attendees and allow vendors to purchase exhibit space and other sponsorship offerings that enable interaction with the attendees. We also hold single-day seminars on various topics in major cities. These seminars provide independent content on key sub-topics in the sectors we serve, are free to qualified attendees, and offer multiple vendors the ability to interact with specific, targeted audiences actively focused on buying decisions. Our custom events differ from our conferences and seminars in that they are exclusively sponsored by a single IT vendor, and the content is driven primarily by the sole sponsor. Cost of Revenues, Operating Expenses and Other Expenses consist of cost of revenues, selling and marketing, product development, general and administrative, depreciation, and amortization expenses. Personnel-related costs are a significant component of most of these expense categories except for depreciation and amortization. Cost of Online Revenue. Cost of online revenue consists primarily of: salaries and related personnel costs; member acquisition expenses (primarily keyword purchases from leading Internet search sites); freelance writer expenses; website hosting costs; vendor expenses associated with the delivery of webcast, podcast, videocast and similar content, and list rental offerings; stock-based compensation expenses; facilities and other related overhead. Cost of Events Revenue. Cost of events revenue consists primarily of: facility expenses, including food and beverages for the event attendees as well as office space; salaries and related personnel costs; event speaker expenses; stock-based compensation expenses; and other related overhead. 19 Table of Contents Selling and Marketing. Selling and marketing expense consists primarily of: salaries and related personnel costs; sales commissions; travel, lodging and other out-of-pocket expenses; stock-based compensation expenses; facilities and related overhead. Sales commissions are recorded as expense when earned by the employee, based on recorded revenue. Product Development. Product development includes the creation and maintenance of our network of websites, advertiser offerings and technical infrastructure. Product development expense consists primarily of salaries and related personnel costs; stock-based compensation expenses; facilities and other related overhead. General and Administrative. General and administrative expense consists primarily of: salaries and related personnel costs; accounting, legal and other professional fees; stock-based compensation expenses; facilities and other related overhead. Depreciation. Depreciation expense consists of the depreciation of our property and equipment. Depreciation of property and equipment is calculated using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, ranging from three to five years. Amortization of Intangible Assets. Amortization of intangible assets expense consists of the amortization of intangible assets recorded in connection with our acquisitions. Separable intangible assets that are not deemed to have an indefinite life are amortized over their estimated useful lives, which range from one to nine years, using methods that are expected to reflect the estimated pattern of economic use. Interest Income (Expense), Net. Interest income (expense), net consists primarily of interest income earned on cash, cash equivalents and short and long-term investments less any interest expense incurred. We historically have invested our cash in money market accounts, municipal bonds and government agency bonds. Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates The discussion of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue, long-lived assets, the allowance for doubtful accounts, stock-based compensation, and income taxes. We based our estimates of the carrying value of certain assets and liabilities on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable. In many cases, we could reasonably have used different accounting policies and estimates. In some cases, changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. See the notes to our consolidated financial statements for information about these critical accounting policies as well as a description of our other accounting policies. Revenue Recognition We generate substantially all of our revenue from the sale of targeted advertising campaigns that we deliver via our network of websites and events. In all cases, we recognize revenue only when the price is fixed or determinable, persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the service is performed and collectability of the resulting receivable is reasonably assured. Although each of our online media offerings can be sold separately, most of our online media sales involve multiple online offerings. Because objective evidence of fair value does not exist for all elements in our bundled advertising campaigns, we use a best estimate of selling price of individual deliverables in the arrangement in the absence of vendor-specific objective evidence or other third party evidence of selling price. We apply a relative selling price method to allocate arrangement consideration at the inception of the arrangement to each deliverable in a multiple element arrangement. Revenue is then recognized as delivery occurs. For assets posted on websites, revenue recognition is generally over the period the asset is available. Event Sponsorships. We sell our events separately from our other service offerings and recognize sponsorship revenue from events in the period in which the event occurs. The majority of our events are free to qualified attendees; however, certain events are based on a paid attendee model. We recognize revenue for paid attendee events upon completion of the event and receipt of payment from the attendee. Amounts collected or billed prior to satisfying the above revenue recognition criteria are recorded as deferred revenue. 20 Table of Contents Online Media. We recognize revenue from our specific online media offerings as follows when these items are sold separately: White Papers. We recognize white paper revenue ratably over the period in which the white paper is available on our websites. Webcasts, Podcasts, Videocasts and Virtual Trade Shows. We recognize webcast, podcast, videocast, virtual trade show and similar content offerings revenue ratably over the period in which the webcast, podcast, videocast, virtual trade show or similar content offering is available on our websites. Promotional E-mails and E-newsletters. We recognize promotional e-mail revenue ratably over the period in which the related content asset is available on our websites because promotional e-mails do not have standalone value from the related content asset. We recognize e-newsletter revenue in the period in which the e-newsletter is sent. List Rentals. List rental revenue is recognized in the period in which the e-mail is sent to the list of registered members. Banners. Banner revenue is recognized in the period in which the banner impressions occur. Third Party Revenue Sharing Arrangements. Revenue from third party revenue sharing arrangements is recognized on a net basis in the period in which the services are performed. Amounts collected or billed prior to satisfying the above revenue recognition criteria are recorded as deferred revenue. Long-Lived Assets Our long-lived assets consist primarily of property and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets. Goodwill and other intangible assets have arisen principally from our acquisitions. The amount assigned to intangible assets is subjective and based on our estimates of the future benefit of the intangible assets using accepted valuation techniques, such as discounted cash flow and replacement cost models. Our long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are amortized over their estimated useful lives, which we determined based on the consideration of several factors including the period of time the asset is expected to remain in service. Intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives, which range from one to nine years, using methods of amortization that are expected to reflect the estimated pattern of economic use. We evaluate the carrying value and remaining useful lives of long-lived assets, other than goodwill, whenever indicators of impairment are present. We evaluate the carrying value of goodwill annually, and whenever indicators of impairment are present. We use a discounted cash flow approach to determine the fair value of goodwill. Fair Value of Financial Instruments Financial instruments consist of cash and cash equivalents, short-term and long-term investments, accounts receivable and accounts payable. The carrying value of these instruments approximates their estimated fair values. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We offset gross trade accounts receivable with an allowance for doubtful accounts. The allowance for doubtful accounts is our best estimate of the amount of probable credit losses in our existing accounts receivable. We review our allowance for doubtful accounts on a regular basis, and all past due balances are reviewed individually for collectability. Account balances are charged against the allowance after all means of collection have been exhausted and the potential for recovery is considered remote. Provisions for the allowance for doubtful accounts are recorded in general and administrative expense. If our historical collection experience does not reflect our future ability to collect outstanding accounts receivable, our future provision for doubtful accounts could be materially affected. To date, we have not incurred any write-offs of accounts receivable significantly different than the amounts reserved. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $1.2 million at March 31, 2011 and $1.0 million at December 31, 2010. 21 Table of Contents Stock-Based Compensation We measure stock-based compensation at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and recognize stock-based compensation expense in the Statement of Operations using the straight-line method over the vesting period of the award or using the accelerated method if the award is contingent upon performance goals. We use the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to determine the fair-value of stock option awards. We calculated the fair values of the options granted using the following estimated weighted-average assumptions: Three Months Ended March 31, 2011 2010 Expected volatility 79 % 78 % Expected term 6.25 years 6.25 years Risk-free interest rate 2.30 % 2.85 % Expected dividend yield 0.00 % 0.00 % Weighted-average grant date fair value per share $ 5.16 $ 3.89 As there was no public market for our common stock prior to our initial public offering in May 2007, and there has been limited historical information on the volatility of our common stock since the date of our initial public offering, we determined the volatility for options granted in the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 based on an analysis of the historical volatility of our stock and reported data for a peer group of companies that issued options with substantially similar terms. The expected volatility of options granted has been determined using a weighted average of the historical volatility of our stock and the peer group of companies for a period equal to the expected life of the option. The risk-free interest rate is based on a zero coupon United States treasury instrument whose term is consistent with the expected life of the stock options. We have not paid and do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our shares of common stock; therefore, the expected dividend yield is assumed to be zero. We applied an estimated annual forfeiture rate based on our historical forfeiture experience of 2.0% in determining the expense recorded in the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010. Internal-Use Software and Website Development Costs We capitalize costs of materials, consultants and compensation and related expenses of employees who devote time to the development of internal-use software and website applications and infrastructure involving developing software to operate our websites. However, we expense as incurred website development costs for new features and functionalities since it is not probable that they will result in additional functionality until they are both developed and tested with confirmation that they are more effective than the current set of features and functionalities on our websites. Our judgment is required in determining the point at which various projects enter the states at which costs may be capitalized, in assessing the ongoing value of the capitalized costs and in determining the estimated useful lives over which the costs are amortized, which is generally three years. To the extent that we change the manner in which we develop and test new features and functionalities related to our websites, assess the ongoing value of capitalized assets or determine the estimated useful lives over which the costs are amortized, the amount of website development costs we capitalize and amortize in future periods would be impacted. We review capitalized internal use software and website development costs for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. We would recognize an impairment loss only if the carrying amount of the asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. We capitalized internal-use software and website development costs of $0.8 million and $0.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and foreign jurisdictions, and we use estimates in determining our provision for income taxes. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on temporary differences between the financial reporting and income tax bases of assets and liabilities using statutory rates. Our deferred tax assets are comprised primarily of Net Operating Loss (NOL) carryforwards. As of December 31, 2010, we had state NOL carryforwards of approximately $17.7 million, which may be used to offset future taxable income. The NOL carryforwards expire through 2029. Net Income (Loss) Per Share We calculate basic earnings per share ( EPS) by dividing earnings available to common shareholders for the period by the weighted average number of common shares and vested restricted stock awards outstanding. Because the holders of unvested restricted stock awards do not have nonforfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents, we do not consider these awards to be participating securities that should be included in our computation of earnings per share under the two-class method. Diluted EPS is computed using the weighted-average number of common shares and vested restricted stock awards outstanding during the period, plus the dilutive effect of potential future issuances of common stock relating to stock option programs and other potentially dilutive securities using the treasury stock method. In calculating diluted EPS, the dilutive effect of stock options is computed using the average market price for the respective period. In addition, the assumed proceeds under the treasury stock method include the average unrecognized compensation expense and assumed tax benefit of stock options that are in-the-money. This results in the assumed buyback of additional shares, thereby reducing the dilutive impact of stock options. 22 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth our results of operations for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2011 2010 (Unaudited) ($ in thousands) Revenues: Online $ 20,380 90 % $ 18,561 88 % Events 2,186 10 2,482 12 Total revenues 22,566 100 21,043 100 Cost of revenues: Online 5,606 25 4,942 23 Events 877 4 938 4 Total cost of revenues 6,483 29 5,880 28 Gross profit 16,083 71 15,163 72 Operating expenses: Selling and marketing 8,631 38 9,411 45 Product development 1,946 9 2,355 11 General and administrative 3,799 17 4,347 21 Depreciation 641 3 525 2 Amortization of intangible assets 1,086 5 1,135 5 Total operating expenses 16,103 71 17,773 84 Operating loss (20 ) * (2,610 ) (12 ) Interest income, net 6 * 107 1 Loss before provision for (benefit from) income taxes (14 ) * (2,503 ) (12 ) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 61 * (163 ) (1 ) Net loss $ (75 ) * % $ (2,340 ) (11 )% * Not meaningful Comparison of Three Months Ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, Increase Percent 2011 2010 (Decrease) Change (Unaudited) ($ in thousands) Revenues: Online $ 20,380 $ 18,561 $ 1,819 10 % Events 2,186 2,482 (296 ) (12 ) Total revenues $ 22,566 $ 21,043 $ 1,523 7 % Online. The increase in online revenue was primarily attributable to a $1.6 million increase in lead generation offerings, primarily due to an increase in sponsorship and white paper sales volumes. Branding revenues also increased by $0.3 million, due primarily to an increase in banner sales volume. Events. The decrease in events revenue is consistent with our stated focus on reducing overall events volume to focus on those events that we deem most profitable. 23 Table of Contents Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit Three Months Ended March 31, Increase Percent 2011 2010 (Decrease) Change (Unaudited) ($ in thousands) Cost of revenues: Online $ 5,606 $ 4,942 $ 664 13 % Events 877 938 (61 ) (7 ) Total cost of revenues $ 6,483 $ 5,880 $ 603 10 % Gross profit $ 16,083 $ 15,163 $ 920 6 % Gross profit percentage 71 % 72 % Cost of Online Revenues. The increase in cost of online revenues was primarily attributable to a $0.4 million increase in hosting and production costs, primarily related to increased international partner activity and freelancer costs, and a $0.3 million increase in payroll-related expenses due to increased headcount. Cost of Events Revenues. Cost of events revenues decreased slightly in the first quarter as compared to the same period a year ago, primarily due to decreases in compensation and variable direct costs as a result of lower revenues. Gross Profit. Our gross profit is equal to the difference between our revenues and our cost of revenues for the period. Gross profit for the first quarter of 2011 was 71% as compared to 72% for the same period of 2010. The increase in online gross profit was $1.2 million, attributable to the increase in online revenue offset by increases in hosting and production and compensation costs as compared to the first quarter of 2010. Events gross profit decreased by $0.2 million, primarily as a result of the lower events revenues. Because the majority of our costs are labor-related, we expect our gross profit to fluctuate from period to period depending on the total revenues for the period, as well as the relative contribution of online and events revenues to our total revenues. Operating Expenses and Other Three Months Ended March 31, Increase Percent 2011 2010 (Decrease) Change (Unaudited) ($ in thousands) Operating expenses: Selling and marketing $ 8,631 $ 9,411 $ (780 ) (8 )% Product development 1,946 2,355 (409 ) (17 ) General and administrative 3,799 4,347 (548 ) (13 ) Depreciation 641 525 116 22 Amortization of intangible assets 1,086 1,135 (49 ) (4 ) Total operating expenses $ 16,103 $ 17,773 $ (1,670 ) (9 )% Interest income, net $ 6 $ 107 $ (101 ) (94 )% Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 61 $ (163 ) $ 224 (137 )% Selling and Marketing. Selling and marketing expenses decreased $0.8 million, primarily due to a $0.8 million decrease in stock-based compensation due to the accelerated vesting of performance-based awards as well as the completion of vesting of certain equity awards in the first quarter of 2010 and a $0.2 million decrease in incentive compensation, offset in part by a $0.2 million increase in compensation and travel costs, due primarily to increased headcount. Product Development. The decrease in product development expense was primarily due to a reduction in payroll related costs. General and Administrative. The decrease in general and administrative expense was primarily attributable to a $0.6 million reduction in stock-based compensation, primarily due to the accelerated vesting of performance-based awards as well as the completion of vesting of certain equity awards in the first quarter of 2010. 24 Table of Contents Depreciation and Amortization of Intangible Assets. The increase in depreciation expense is related to our increased fixed asset base, primarily as a result of leasehold improvements associated with our move to the new corporate headquarters on March 1, 2010, as well as continued investment in internal-use software development costs and computer equipment. The decrease in amortization of intangible assets expense was primarily attributable to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized during 2010, partially offset by amortization on newly acquired intangible assets. Interest Income, Net. The decrease in interest income, net primarily reflects our lower cash balances in the three months ended March 31, 2011 as compared to the same period in 2010, as well as a continued deterioration in the available yield for these types of investments. Provision for Income Taxes. Our effective tax rate was (436%) and 7% for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The provision for income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2011 includes a discrete tax expense of $71,000 related to a state tax assessment for a prior period. Our effective tax rate excluding the discrete tax expense was 71% for the three months ended March 31, 2011. The change in the effective tax rate excluding the discrete tax expense was as a result of applying the provision of ASC 740, Income Taxes , as it relates to interim periods. For the three months ended March 31, 2011, we calculated the provision for income taxes using a forecasted tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2011. For the three months ended March 31, 2010, we calculated the benefit from income taxes using a period-to-date approach. Seasonality The timing of our revenues is affected by seasonal factors. Our revenues are seasonal primarily as a result of the annual budget approval process of many of our customers and the historical decrease in advertising and events activity in summer months. Consequently, our fiscal second and fourth quarters tend to have larger online revenue in relative terms when compared to our fiscal first and third quarters. Events revenue may vary depending on which quarters we produce the event, which may vary when compared to previous periods. The timing of revenues in relation to our expenses, much of which does not vary directly with revenue, has an impact on the cost of online revenues, selling and marketing, product development, and general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue in each calendar quarter during the year. The majority of our expenses are personnel-related and include salaries, stock-based compensation, benefits and incentive-based compensation plan expenses. As a result, we have not experienced significant seasonal fluctuations in the timing of our expenses period to period. Liquidity and Capital Resources Resources We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, investments, our cash flow from operating activities and available bank borrowings will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months. Our future working capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the operations of our existing business, our potential strategic expansion internationally, future acquisitions we might undertake, and the expansion into complementary businesses. To the extent that our cash and cash equivalents and cash flow from operating activities are insufficient to fund our future activities, we may need to raise additional funds through bank credit arrangements or public or private equity or debt financings. We also may need to raise additional funds in the event we determine in the future to effect one or more additional acquisitions of businesses. March 31, December 31, 2011 2010 (Unaudited) ($ in thousands) Cash, cash equivalents and investments $ 50,511 $ 50,134 Accounts receivable, net $ 25,809 $ 24,678 Cash, Cash Equivalents and Investments Our cash, cash equivalents and investments at March 31, 2011 were held for working capital purposes and were invested primarily in money market accounts and municipal bonds. We do not enter into investments for trading or speculative purposes. At March 31, 2011, we held long-term investments of $6,840 in instruments not exceeding maturities of eighteen months. Due to the liquidation of investments in the fourth quarter of 2010 in connection with the Companys tender offer, no amounts were invested in longer-term instruments at December 31, 2010. 25 Table of Contents Accounts Receivable, Net Our accounts receivable balance fluctuates from period to period, which affects our cash flow from operating activities. The fluctuations vary depending on the timing of our service delivery and billing activity, cash collections, and changes to our allowance for doubtful accounts. We use days sales outstanding, or DSO, as a measurement of the quality and status of our receivables. We define DSO as net accounts receivable divided by total revenue for the applicable period, multiplied by the number of days in the applicable period. DSO was 102 days for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 and 84 days at December 31, 2010. The increase in DSO is primarily the result of lower cash collections during the quarter due to a large portion of our revenue being billed in the third month of the quarter, thereby increasing the quarter end accounts receivable balance, as compared to the quarter ended December 31, 2010. Cash Flows Three Months Ended March 31, 2011 2010 (Unaudited) ($ in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 678 $ 2,305 Net cash used in investing activities(1) $ 1,162 $ 2,881 Net cash provided by financing activities $ 963 $ 108 (1) Cash used in investing activities is shown net of investment activity of $1.5 million and $2.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities primarily consists of a net loss adjusted for certain non-cash items including depreciation and amortization, the provision for bad debt, stock-based compensation, deferred income taxes, and the effect of changes in working capital and other activities. Cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2011 was $0.7 million compared to $2.3 million in the three months ended March 31, 2010. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was a result of changes in operating assets and liabilities of $2.6 million in the first three months of 2011 compared to $0.7 million in 2010. Significant components of the changes in assets and liabilities included a $0.1 million increase in accounts payable during the first three months of 2011 compared to an increase of $1.4 million in the first three months of 2010. The increase in accounts payable in 2010 was driven by amounts owed for office furniture and fixtures associated with the move to the Newton office space as well as amounts owed for the forensic audit. In addition, there was a $0.4 million increase in other liabilities in the first three months of 2011 compared to an increase of $0.7 million in the first three months of 2010, partially offset by an increase of $1.1 million in accounts receivable during the first three months of 2011 compared to an increase of $1.8 million during the first three months of 2010. The change in other liabilities is primarily due to deferred rent. The decrease in changes in operating assets and liabilities was partially offset by a decrease in the net loss year to date, adjusted for non-cash items, of $0.2 million. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities in the three months ended March 31, 2011, net of investment activity, was $1.2 million for the purchase of property and equipment made up primarily of website development costs, computer equipment and related software and internal-use development costs. Equity Financing Activities We received proceeds from the exercise of stock options in the amounts of $0.6 million and $0.2 million in the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Term Loan and Credit Facility Borrowings In August 2006, we entered into a credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) with a commercial bank, which included a $10.0 million term loan (the Term Loan) and a $20.0 million revolving credit facility (the Revolving Credit Facility). The Credit Agreement was amended in August 2007, in December 2008 and again in December 2009. The amendment in 2009 reduced the Revolving Credit Facility to $5.0 million. We paid off the remaining balance of the Term Loan in December 2009. 26 Table of Contents The Revolving Credit Facility matures on August 30, 2011. Unless earlier payment is required by an event of default, all principal and unpaid interest will be due and payable on August 30, 2011. At our option, the Revolving Credit Facility bears interest at either the Prime Rate less 1.00% or the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus the applicable LIBOR margin. The applicable LIBOR margin is based on the ratio of total funded debt to EBITDA for the preceding four fiscal quarters. As of March 31, 2011, the applicable LIBOR margin, which was the operative rate during the quarter ended March 31, 2011, was 1.25%. We are also required to pay an unused line fee on the daily unused amount of our Revolving Credit Facility at a per annum rate based on the ratio of total funded debt to EBITDA for the preceding four fiscal quarters. As of March 31, 2011, unused availability under the Revolving Credit Facility totaled $3.5 million and the per annum unused line fee rate was 0.20%. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement are collateralized by a security interest in substantially all of our assets. Covenants governing the Credit Agreement include the maintenance of certain financial ratios. At March 31, 2011 we were in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreement. At March 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 there was no amount outstanding under this revolving loan agreement. There is a $1.5 million standby letter of credit related to our corporate headquarters lease that is outstanding at March 31, 2011, bringing our available borrowings on the $5.0 million facility to $3.5 million. Capital Expenditures We have made capital expenditures primarily for computer equipment and related software needed to host our websites, internal-use software development costs, as well as for leasehold improvements and other general purposes to support our growth. Our capital expenditures totaled $1.2 million and $2.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. A majority of our capital expenditures in the first three months of 2011 were internal-use development costs and, to a lesser extent, computer equipment and related software. A majority of our capital expenditures for the first three months of 2010 were leasehold improvements for our new corporate headquarters, which we occupied beginning on March 1, 2010, as well as website development costs, computer equipment and related software, and internal-use development costs. We are not currently party to any purchase contracts related to future capital expenditures. Contractual Obligations and Commitments As of March 31, 2011, our principal commitments consist of obligations under leases for office space. The offices are leased under noncancelable operating lease agreements that expire through March 2020. The following table sets forth our commitments to settle contractual obligations in cash as of March 31, 2011: Payments Due By Period Less than More than Total 1 Year 1 - 3 Years 3 - 5 Years 5 Years (Unaudited) ($ in thousands) Operating leases $ 30,536 $ 4,020 $ 10,166 $ 9,783 $ 6,567 At March 31, 2011, we had an irrevocable standby letter of credit outstanding in the aggregate amount of $1.5 million. This letter of credit supports the lease we entered into in 2009 for our corporate headquarters. This letter of credit, subject to certain reductions, extends annually through February 28, 2020 unless notification of termination is received. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for recent accounting pronouncements that could have an effect on us. 27 Table of Contents