Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Risk Factors and Business, contains forward-looking statements based on our managements beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and generally may be identified by terms such as believe, may, will, estimate, continue, anticipate, intend, could, would, project, plan, expect or the negative or plural of these words or similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including but not limited to our ability to successfully integrate and realize the benefits of our past or future strategic acquisitions or investments, including our proposed acquisition of Trulia, Inc., as well as those risks, uncertainties and assumptions described in Part I, Item 1A (Risk Factors) of this report. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for our management to predict all risks, nor can we assess the effect of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this report may not occur and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. You should not rely on forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee that the future results, levels of activity, performance, or events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur. Moreover, except as required by law, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking statements, and we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason after the date of this report to conform these statements to actual results or to changes in our expectations. 3 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Mission Our mission is to build the largest, most trusted and vibrant home-related marketplace to empower consumers with information and tools to make smart decisions about homes, real estate and mortgages. Overview Zillow operates the leading real estate and home-related information marketplaces on mobile and the Web, with a complementary portfolio of brands and products to help people find vital information about homes, and connect with local professionals. In addition to our living database of homes, accessible on Zillow.com, we also own and operate Zillow Mobile, our suite of home-related mobile applications, Zillow Mortgages, where borrowers connect with lenders to find loans and get competitive mortgage rates, Zillow Digs, our home improvement marketplace where consumers can find visual inspiration and local cost estimates, Zillow Rentals, a marketplace and suite of tools for rental professionals, Postlets, Diverse Solutions, Mortech, HotPads, StreetEasy and Retsly. Zillow was incorporated as a Washington corporation in December 2004, and we launched the initial version of our website, Zillow.com, in February 2006. Zillow provides products and services to help consumers through every stage of homeownershipbuying, selling, renting, borrowing and remodeling. We are transforming the way people make home-related decisions, and enabling homeowners, buyers, sellers and renters to find and connect with local professionals best suited to meet their needs. Our living database of more than 110 million U.S. homeshomes for sale, homes for rent and homes not currently on the marketattracts an active and vibrant community of users. Individuals and businesses that use Zillow have updated information on more than 50 million homes and have added more than 280 million home photos, creating exclusive home profiles not available anywhere else. These profiles include detailed information about homes, including property facts, listing information, and purchase and sale data. We provide this information to our users where, when and how they want it, through our industry-leading mobile applications that enable consumers to access our information when they are curbside, viewing homes, and through our websites. Using complex, proprietary automated valuation models, we provide current home value estimates, or Zestimates, and current rental price estimates, or Rent Zestimates, on more than 100 million U.S. homes. We present residential real estate data in novel ways that have revolutionized the way consumers search for, find and understand home-related information and make real estate decisions. Consumers increasingly are turning to the Internet and mobile devices for real estate information. For the three months ended December 31, 2014, we estimate that 76.7 million average monthly unique users visited Zillows mobile applications and websites, representing year-over-year growth of 41%. For additional information regarding key growth drivers, see Key Growth Drivers in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Sixty-five percent of our traffic now comes from a mobile device; on weekends its more than 70%. We operate the most popular suite of mobile real estate applications across all major mobile platforms. During December 2014, 420 million homes were viewed on Zillow on a mobile device, or 157 homes per second. We monetize our marketplace business on mobile in the same way we do on our web platform. Real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals are a critical part of home-related marketplaces. We have created a trusted and transparent marketplace where consumers can search and read reviews on local real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals and contact those professionals on their own terms. 4 Table of Contents Our home-related marketplaces benefit from network effects. As more consumers come to our mobile applications and websites to use our products and services, more real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals contribute content to distinguish themselves, thereby making our marketplaces more useful and attracting additional consumers. We generate revenue from local real estate professionals, mortgage professionals, rental professionals and brand advertisers. Our revenue includes marketplace revenue, consisting primarily of sales to real estate agents based on the number of impressions delivered on our buyers agent list in zip codes purchased, and advertising primarily sold on a cost per click, or CPC, basis to mortgage lenders, as well as display revenue, which consists of advertising placements sold primarily on a cost per thousand impressions, or CPM, basis. Our revenue has grown significantly since our initial website launch in 2006. For the year ended December 31, 2014, we generated revenue of $325.9 million, as compared to $197.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, an increase of 65%. Proposed Acquisition of Trulia, Inc. On July 28, 2014, Zillow, Zebra Holdco, Inc., a Washington corporation (HoldCo), and Trulia, Inc., a Delaware corporation (Trulia), entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement), pursuant to which Zillow agreed to acquire Trulia. Trulias mobile and web products provide buyers, sellers, renters and real estate professionals with tools and information for the home search process and provide agents with an end-to-end technology platform that enables them to find and serve clients. The Merger Agreement provides that, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth therein, (i) a newly-organized Washington corporation, and wholly owned subsidiary of HoldCo (Zillow Merger Sub), will merge with and into Zillow (the Zillow Merger), with Zillow as the surviving entity, and (ii) a newly-organized Delaware corporation, and wholly-owned subsidiary of HoldCo (Trulia Merger Sub), will merge with and into Trulia (the Trulia Merger and, together with the Zillow Merger, the Mergers), with Trulia as the surviving entity. As a result of the Mergers, both Zillow and Trulia will become wholly-owned subsidiaries of HoldCo. Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, at the effective time of the Zillow Merger (the Zillow Merger Effective Time), (x) each share of Zillows Class A common stock will be converted into the right to receive one share of Class A common stock of HoldCo (HoldCo Class A Common Stock), and (y) each share of Zillows Class B common stock will be converted into the right to receive one share of Class B common stock of HoldCo. The Merger Agreement provides that, at the Zillow Merger Effective Time, all Zillow equity awards outstanding as of immediately prior to the Zillow Merger Effective Time will be assumed by HoldCo. In addition, pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, at the effective time of the Trulia Merger (the Trulia Merger Effective Time), by virtue of the Trulia Merger and without any action on the part of any stockholder, each share of Trulia common stock will be converted into the right to receive 0.444 of a share of HoldCo Class A Common Stock. The Merger Agreement provides that, at the Trulia Merger Effective Time, all Trulia equity awards outstanding as of immediately prior to the Trulia Merger Effective Time will be assumed by HoldCo. Upon consummation of the mergers, Holdco Class A Common Stock is expected to be listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. On September 12, 2014, HoldCo filed a Registration Statement on Form S-4 with the SEC to register the shares of HoldCos common stock that will be issued to shareholders of Zillow and stockholders of Trulia as consideration in the proposed acquisition in exchange for the Zillow and Trulia common stock. The Registration Statement on Form S-4 was declared effective by the SEC on November 17, 2014. On December 18, 2014, Zillows shareholders and Trulias stockholders approved the Mergers. On February 13, 2015, Zillow announced that it received notification from the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) that the FTC closed its investigation and would take no action against the proposed transaction. As a result, closing conditions related to the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, have been satisfied. The proposed transaction remains subject to the satisfaction of a number of customary closing conditions, and Zillow anticipates that it will be completed as early as February 17, 2015. 5 Table of Contents Industry Dynamics The Importance of Homes Homes are the center of peoples lives, the focus of some of their most important decisions and often their most valuable assets. In addition to whether to buy, sell or rent, consumers make many other important home-related decisions throughout their lifetimes, including decisions relating to refinancing or home equity loans, home maintenance and home improvement. Residential real estate is one of the largest sectors of the U.S. economy and supports millions of professionals that provide services related to home purchases and sales, rentals, home financings, and home maintenance and improvement. Large Market Opportunities Based on external and internal assessments, we believe our current addressable markets include the following: Purchase and Sale Sales of approximately 4.9 million existing and 435 thousand new homes in the United States in 2014 had an aggregate transaction value of approximately $1.4 trillion, according to data published in 2015 by the U.S. Census Bureau and the National Association of REALTORS . There are approximately 1.9 million licensed real estate professionals in the United States, according to data published in 2012, 2013 and 2014 by the Association of Real Estate License Law Officials. In an effort to acquire new client relationships and sell homes, U.S. real estate agents and brokers spent an estimated $8.5 billion on residential advertising in 2014, according to a forecast from Borrell Associates released in 2015. In addition, U.S. real estate developers spent an estimated $1.5 billion on residential advertising in 2014, also according to a forecast from Borrell Associates released in 2015. In the United States, there are 205 million people residing in owner-occupied housing, according to data published by the U.S. Census Bureau in November 2013. Approximately 29% of movers in 2013, or 10.5 million people, were homeowners, according to the U.S. Census Bureau migration data published in November 2013. Rentals In the fourth quarter of 2014, there were approximately 45.3 million rental housing units in the United States, with a national vacancy rate of 7.0%, according to data published by the U.S. Census Bureau in January 2015. According to data published by the U.S. Census Bureau from the American Housing Survey and the Current Population Survey/Housing Vacancy Survey, approximately: 9.0% of rental units (4.1 million) are located in buildings with 50 or more units; 8.5% of rental units (3.8 million) are located in buildings with 20 to 49 units; 12.1% of rental units (5.5 million) are located in buildings with 10 to 19 units; 12.7% of rental units (5.7 million) are located in buildings with 5 to 9 units; 19.3% of rental units (8.7 million) are located in small multi-family structures of 2-4 units; 38.4% of rental units (17.4 million) are 1-unit structures. In 2013, U.S. large multi-family rental property (structures with 5 or more units) managers and landlords experienced annual unit turnover of approximately 52%, and spent an estimated $159 per unit on advertising and approximately $206 per unit in lease concessions, according to data presented in the National Apartment Associations 2014 Survey of Operating Income & Expenses in Rental Communities. Based on this data, we estimate that these rental professionals spend approximately $5.0 billion per year to attract and retain renters. According to a forecast from Borrell Associates released in 2015, U.S. rental property managers spent an estimated $2.9 billion on residential advertising in 2014, which excludes lease concessions. In the United States, there are 102.3 million people residing in rental housing units, according to data published by the U.S. Census Bureau in 2013. Approximately 71% of movers in 2013, or 25.5 million people, were renters, according to the U.S. Census Bureau migration data published in November 2013. 6 Table of Contents Home Financing According to a forecast from the Mortgage Bankers Association published in January 2015, approximately $1.1 trillion in U.S. residential mortgage originations occurred in 2014. U.S. residential mortgage providers spent approximately $5.8 billion in 2014 marketing their services and loan products to mortgage borrowers, according to data presented in industry research reports from IBISWorld Inc. released in 2014. Home Maintenance and Improvement Spending on home improvements and repairs totaled $275 billion in 2011, according to the Joint Center for Housing Studies of Harvard University in a January 2013 report. As noted in the report, 82% of home improvement and repair spending was on owner-occupied homes, with the remainder on rental units. Spending on advertising by the home improvement industry was approximately $10.9 billion in 2014, according to data presented in industry research reports from IBISWorld Inc. released in 2014. Display Advertising We estimate that companies external to the real estate, mortgage and home improvement industries seeking to reach consumers like those who visit Zillow spent approximately $3.9 billion in 2013 on Web display, mobile and digital video advertising, based on data published by the Interactive Advertising Bureau in 2014. Highly Fragmented, Local and Complex Market The market for residential real estate transactions and home-related services is highly fragmented, local and complex. Each home has unique characteristics, including location, value, size, style, age and condition. Each consumer approaches home-related transactions with a personal set of objectives, priorities and values. Real estate agents generally operate in local markets as independent contractors with different experiences and skills. These conditions create challenges for consumers and real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals alike. Consumers are challenged to find information about homes and to find real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals who fit their individual needs. Real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals are challenged to efficiently advertise their services and identify new clients, and to measure the effectiveness of their marketing efforts. Absence of Consumer Orientation Historically, consumers had minimal access to comprehensive and objective residential real estate data, even though many home-related decisions are extraordinarily information-intensive. While real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals had some data, consumers did not have free, independent and easy access to data. Even when accessible, the data were difficult to interpret and analyze. Increasing Role of Mobile Technologies and the Internet Consumers are increasingly turning to mobile devices and the Internet to access real estate information. With the widespread adoption of mobile and location-based technologies, consumers increasingly expect home-related information to be available on their mobile devices where, when and how they want it. Sixty-five percent of our traffic now comes from a mobile device; on weekends its more than 70%.We believe that the technological platform shift from desktop computers to mobile devices benefits technology leaders like Zillow that are quick to innovate. Competitive Advantages We believe we have the following competitive advantages: Inimitable Database of Homes. Our living database of homes is the result of years of substantial investment, sophisticated economic and statistical analysis, complex data aggregation and millions of user contributions. Our dynamic and comprehensive living database includes detailed information on 7 Table of Contents more than 110 million U.S. homes, and includes homes for sale, for rent and recently sold, as well as properties not currently on the market. This database is central to the value we provide to consumers and real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals. It contains extensive information that users can search, through an easy-to-use interface, to identify, analyze and compare homes. Our database is relevant to a broad range of users, including buyers, sellers, renters, homeowners, real estate agents and other real estate professionals. It includes information such as: Property facts: Zestimate and its corresponding value range, number of bedrooms, number of bathrooms, square footage, lot size, assessed tax value and property type such as single-family, condominium, apartment, multifamily, manufactured home or land. Listing information: price, price history and reductions, dollars per square foot, days on the market, listing type (such as for sale by agent, for sale by owner, pre-market inventory, which includes foreclosure, pre-foreclosure, Coming Soon and Make Me Move listings, new construction and rental homes), open houses, property photos and estimated monthly mortgage payment. Purchase and sale data: prior sales information and recent sales nearby. We synthesize data from hundreds of automated feeds, representing information from tens of thousands of public and private sources. Applying extensive computer analytics to the data, we transform it into information that is accessible, understandable and useful. We refer to the database as living because the information is continually updated by the combination of our proprietary algorithms, synthesis of third-party data from hundreds of sources, and through improvements by us and, importantly, by our community of users. User-generated content from owners, agents and others enriches our database with photos and additional property information. More than 60 million pieces of user-generated content have been manually contributed to Zillow, and this is growing by an average of more than 1.5 million contributions per month. Individuals and businesses that use Zillow have updated information on more than 50 million homes in our database and added more than 280 million home photos, creating exclusive home profiles not available anywhere else. Our inimitable database enables us to create content, products and services not available anywhere else, and attracts an active, vibrant community of users. As of December 31, 2014, we had published more than one million reviews, including more than 960,000 reviews of local real estate agents and 125,000 reviews of mortgage professionals submitted by our users. In addition, our users had submitted more than 970,000 questions and answers in our discussion forum, Zillow Advice. Zillow Advice allows consumers to ask questions of real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals and other consumers and quickly learn more about homes and real estate topics of interest. In particular, many of our dedicated active contributors devote substantial time sharing their expertise about Zillow and the real estate market on Zillow Advice. Real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals who participate in Zillow Advice play a key role in helping to educate consumers, and benefit from exposure to consumers and resulting referrals. Zestimates, Rent Zestimates and Digs Estimates. We have developed industry-leading automated home valuation models that use advanced statistical methods and complex, proprietary algorithms. We use these models to provide current home value estimates, or Zestimates, and current rental price estimates, or Rent Zestimates, on more than 100 million U.S. homes. Based on our Zestimates, we produce Zillow Home Value Indexes at the neighborhood, zip code, city, metropolitan statistical area, county and national levels. Our Zillow Home Value Indexes have been cited by government entities such as the Federal Reserve Bank and the Congressional Oversight Panel, university studies and respected national publications. For historical comparisons, we provide up to 15 years of Zestimate history on each home and valuable information about property and real estate market trends. Our Zestimates, Rent Zestimates and Zillow Home Value Indexes allow consumers to evaluate homes and neighborhoods, and to easily evaluate historical trends, as they contemplate critical home-related decisions. With Zillow Digs, home shoppers and homeowners can find visual inspiration and understand the cost of remodeling projects. 8 Table of Contents Users can browse tens of thousands of photos and see Zillows proprietary Digs Estimates for the estimated cost, based on where they live, of the actual bathrooms and kitchens they are viewing. Unique to Zillow, Digs Estimates give consumers the estimated cost of thousands of real bathrooms and kitchens in Zillow Digs ever-increasing portfolio of photos and are computed using Zillows proprietary algorithm, which includes real-world data from local contractors such as size, materials, finish level, and regional labor and material rates. The Digs Estimates technology helps home shoppers and homeowners create more realistic budgets appropriate for their specific market. Powerful Brand and Scale. We have established a powerful brand identity and built a large user community. The majority of our traffic comes direct, not dependent on search engines, with demonstrated consumer intent to visit the Zillow brand. During December 2014, we estimate that 73.5 million unique users visited Zillows mobile applications and websites, representing year-over-year growth of 41%. For additional information regarding key growth drivers, see Key Growth Drivers in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Mobile Leadership and Monetization. Shopping for a home is a far more meaningful consumer experience when it occurs curbside, untethered and on location, so we have developed and operate the most popular suite of mobile real estate applications across all major platforms. During December 2014, 420 million homes, or 157 homes per second, were viewed on Zillow on a mobile device. Sixty-five percent of our traffic now comes from a mobile device; on weekends its more than 70%. Our suite of mobile applications includes 28 distinct real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement applications that enable people to access and analyze information where, when and how they want it. We monetize our marketplace business on our mobile platform in the same way we do on our web platform. Independent Market Positions and Consumer Focus. Zillow has been built independent of any real estate industry group. We maintain an unwavering commitment to giving consumers free access to as much useful information as possible. We provide unbiased information, products and services, empowering consumers to make informed decisions about homes and the residential real estate market. We believe our independence enables us to create compelling products and services with broad consumer appeal. Multiple Robust Home-Related Marketplaces. We have created trusted and transparent marketplaces in real estate, rentals, mortgages and home improvement where consumers can identify and connect with local professionals that are best suited to meet their needs. Our living database of homes provides a foundation on which we can build new consumer and professional marketplaces in other home-related categories. Technology Solutions for Professionals. We offer a suite of marketing and technology solutions to help real estate, rental and mortgage professionals grow their businesses and personal brands, including agent-only features on our mobile real estate applications. Consumer-Oriented Mortgage Marketplace. Unlike other sources of mortgage rate quotes, in Zillow Mortgages consumers can anonymously submit mortgage loan requests and receive an unlimited number of personalized mortgage quotes directly from hundreds of consumer-rated lenders. Consumers can then choose to contact those lenders at their discretion. Because we operate this marketplace as part of our real estate home shopping experience, we can efficiently attract motivated users to the marketplace and prioritize the consumers experience. For the year ended December 31, 2014, consumers submitted more than 25.7 million mortgage loan requests in Zillow Mortgages. Personalized Experience. We present consumers and real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals with many opportunities to personalize their Zillow experience, leading to more informed home shopping and financing decisions. Users can save favorite homes on Zillow and receive monthly email updates on changes in those homes values, listing status, price changes and other data. Users also can customize saved searches for any neighborhood or zip code and receive 9 Table of Contents daily email updates on new homes listed for sale, for rent, or price changes for existing listed homes. Once a favorite home or search parameters are saved on Zillow, a consumer or professional may access these personalized options every time they visit Zillow through a mobile device or on our websites, personalizing a Zillow experience unique to them. Proven Management Team . We believe the broad experience and depth of our management team are distinct competitive advantages in the complex and evolving industry in which we compete. The Zillow management team has an extensive history building successful consumer Internet companies. In particular, we believe that the shared experience of our executives, many who held similar positions together at Expedia, Inc., provides our management team with unique cohesion and insight. Growth Strategies Our growth strategies are: Focus on Consumers. Maintain our unwavering focus on consumers and leverage our industry independence to enhance existing products and services and develop new offerings with broad consumer appeal. Enhance Our Living Database. Enhance the information in our database of homes, and use it as the foundation for new analyses, insights and tools to inform consumers throughout the home ownership lifecycle. Leverage Our Mobile Leadership. Innovate and expand our offerings for mobile devices, launching more applications and extending our brand and products across additional mobile platforms. Deepen and Strengthen and Expand Our Marketplaces. Deepen and strengthen our marketplaces by creating new opportunities for high-quality consumer-initiated connections with real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals when consumers want their services. Our living database of homes provides a foundation on which we can build new consumer and professional marketplaces in other home-related categories. Efficiently Increase Brand Awareness. Expand targeted advertising programs, public relations, social media and content distribution to efficiently increase brand awareness. Expand Our Platform. Expand our platform beyond advertising services for real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals by developing additional marketing and business technology solutions to help those professionals manage and grow their businesses and personal brands. Optimize Opportunities for Premier Agent Participation. Optimize opportunities for Premier Agent participation in our marketplaces through development of a broad variety of marketing and business technology solutions. Leverage Our Sales Force. Leverage our sales forces expertise with new advertising and technology offerings. Pursue Strategic Opportunities. Pursue strategic opportunities, including commercial relationships and acquisitions, to strengthen our market position, enhance our capabilities and accelerate our growth. For example, in July 2014, Zillow announced its planned acquisition of Trulia, Inc., which is expected to be completed as early as February 17, 2015. The acquisition aligns with our growth strategies, including focusing on consumers and deepening, strengthening, and expanding our marketplaces. With the planned addition of Trulia, Zillow expects to offer more real estate tools and services that empower consumers and drive more business for real estate professionals. 10 Table of Contents Advertising Products and Services We provide advertising products and services for real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals that enable them to create and promote useful content for consumers. Marketplace Advertising Premier Agent Program Zillows Premier Agent program offers a suite of marketing and business technology solutions to help real estate agents grow their businesses and personal brands. The Premier Agent program allows agents to select products and services that they can tailor to meet their business and advertising needs. The program has three tiers of participation including Premier Platinum, our flagship product, as well as Premier Gold and Premier Silver, to meet different marketing and business needs of a broad range of agents. All tiers of Premier Agents receive access to a dashboard portal on our website that provides individualized program performance analytics, as well as our personalized website service, and our free customer relationship management, or CRM, tool that captures detailed information about each contact made with a Premier Agent through our mobile and web platforms. Our Premier Gold product also includes featured listings whereby the agents listings will appear at the top of search results on our mobile and web platforms. Our Premier Platinum product includes the dashboard portal on our website, our personalized website service, our CRM tool, featured listings, and inclusion on our buyers agent list, whereby the agent appears as the agent to contact for listings in the purchased zip code. Our multi-tiered Premier Agent advertising program, along with our Diverse Solutions agent website services, our CRM tools, and our Postlets syndication tool, extend our platform beyond just marketing services for real estate agents to a platform that also includes other types of trade services and tools. Zillow Mortgages In Zillow Mortgages, consumers request free, personalized quotes in response to their submission of limited anonymous data, such as specific loan amount, zip code, purchase price or estimated home value, and credit score. For the year ended December 31, 2014, consumers submitted more than 25.7 million mortgage loan requests in Zillow Mortgages. Consumers decide if and when to contact the mortgage professionals who provide quotes. User-generated ratings and reviews of mortgage professionals are provided as a powerful tool to help consumers shop for their loans. Zillow Rentals Zillow continues to develop its rental marketplace on mobile and Web. In October 2012, we launched Zillow Rentals, a free marketplace for consumers and suite of tools for rental professionals, which includes listing distribution across the Zillow Rental Network, reaching millions of renters on Zillow.com, Zillow Mobile, Yahoo! Homes, HGTV s FrontDoor, MSN , MyNewPlace.com and HotPads. Zillow now operates ten dedicated apps for renters and rental professionals, available across multiple platforms. Display Advertising Our display advertising primarily consists of graphical mobile and web advertising sold on a cost per thousand impressions (CPM) basis. We offer customers display advertising opportunities on our mobile applications through display ads that are optimized for the mobile experience, on our home page, and on individual web pages, through graphical displays and text links. Information Products and Services We provide consumers with information products and services to enable them to make intelligent decisions about homes. 11 Table of Contents Zestimates and Rent Zestimates Our Zestimate and Rent Zestimate valuations are computed using complex, proprietary algorithms we have developed and refined through years of statistical analysis and technological development. A Zestimate is our estimated current market value of a home. We generate Zestimates using a variety of information, including: Physical attributes: location, lot size, square footage, number of bedrooms and bathrooms and many other details. Tax assessments: property tax information, actual property taxes paid, exceptions to tax assessments and other information provided in the tax assessors records. Prior and current transactions: actual sale prices over time of the home itself and comparable recent sales of nearby homes. We use proprietary automated valuation models that apply advanced algorithms to analyze our data to identify relationships within a specific geographic area between home-related data and actual sales prices. Home characteristics, such as square footage, location or the number of bathrooms, are given different weights according to their influence on home sale prices in each specific geographic area over a specific period of time, resulting in a set of valuation rules, or models, that are applied to generate each homes Zestimate. To improve the accuracy of our Zestimates, our algorithms automatically remove or reconcile data that would otherwise inappropriately skew the valuation rules. In addition, our algorithms will automatically generate a new set of valuation rules based on the constantly changing universe of data included in our database. This allows us to provide timely home value information on a massive scale, updated three times a week. We publicly disclose the accuracy of our Zestimates to further empower consumers in assessing a homes value. The accuracy may be impacted by a variety of factors, including the amount of data about homes we have for a particular geographic area. A Rent Zestimate is our estimated current monthly rental price of a home, computed using similar automated valuation models we have designed to address the unique attributes of a rental home. We estimate rental prices on more than 100 million homes, including apartments, single-family homes, condominiums and townhomes. Digs Estimates With Zillow Digs, home shoppers and homeowners can find visual inspiration and understand the cost of remodeling projects. Users can browse tens of thousands of photos and see Zillows proprietary Digs Estimates for the estimated cost, based on where they live, of the actual bathrooms and kitchens they are viewing. Unique to Zillow, Digs Estimates give consumers the estimated cost of thousands of real bathrooms and kitchens in Zillow Digs ever-increasing portfolio of photos and are computed using Zillows proprietary algorithm, which includes real-world data from local contractors such as size, materials, finish level, and regional labor and material rates. The Digs Estimates technology helps home shoppers and homeowners create more realistic budgets appropriate for their specific market. 12 Table of Contents Rich, Searchable Home-Related Data and Analysis We provide consumers and real estate professionals with a rich set of home-related information. Through our mobile applications and websites, users can access detailed information about homes, including: Value Information Zestimate Prior sale prices Rent Zestimate Historical Zestimate values For sale price Historical Rent Zestimate values Estimated mortgage payment Zillow Home Value Index Rental price Zillow Home Value Index Forecasts Make Me Move price Tax-assessed value Easy links to county assessor records Property taxes paid Digs Estimates Price per square foot Regional foreclosure statistics Regional 12 month home value forecast Home Details Bedrooms Number of stories Bathrooms Number of units in building Square footage Finished basement Lot size Cooling system Year built Heating system Property type Heat source County Fireplace Parcel number Exterior material Legal description Parking type Construction quality Garage size Neighborhood Information School district School ratings Elementary school Walkability Middle school Transit access High school For Sale Listing Details Price Price reductions Listing agent information Days on Zillow Listing brokerage information MLS number Link to listing source Foreclosure stage and details Property type and property features Home overview description Open house dates and times Neighborhood name and description Virtual tour Coming Soon on market date Rental Listing Details Building name and number of stories Property manager Rent amount and lease terms Parking availability Application and deposit fees Utilities and amenities Historical rental listings Consumers and real estate professionals can update property information by, for example, adding home photos and personalized information regarding the neighborhood or school district, creating exclusive home profiles not available anywhere else. Our map-based user interface enables our users to search, navigate and zoom to areas of interest and find and compare home information quickly and efficiently from a variety of different perspectives across homes, neighborhoods, cities, counties and other geographical regions. Our consumer search experience supports complex search queries and filters across our data set of homes, allowing consumers to customize their searches and gain actionable insights. 13 Table of Contents Our team of economists and statisticians generates unbiased local and national real estate data and analysis on 929 metropolitan areas and approximately 10,400 individual neighborhoods that we provide to consumers and real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals at no cost. This gives our users access to local market trends and data, such as home price cuts, list to sale price ratio and foreclosure data that was historically not easily obtained, if available at all. Users can compare these metrics across neighborhoods and different time periods using our real-time charting and filtering. For Sale and Rental Listings We provide comprehensive for sale and rental listings through relationships with real estate brokerages, real estate listings aggregators, multiple listing services, apartment management companies, home builders and other third-parties. In addition, we provide consumers with access to exclusive home listings, such as our Make Me Move listings, which are a homeowners posted price at which they would be willing to move. We also show listings that may not be available on other sources, including for sale by owner, pre-market inventory, including our Coming Soon listings, and rental listings. Real estate agents and landlords may feature and gain more exposure for their listings through our advertising products. For the year ended December 31, 2014, a substantial portion of the listings displayed on our mobile applications and websites was provided to us pursuant to a Platform Services Agreement with Threewide Corporation (Threewide). Under the terms of this agreement, Threewide granted to us a nonexclusive license to display listings on our mobile applications and websites. This agreement has a 48-month term, beginning in April 2011. Pursuant to its terms, the Platform Services Agreement will expire on April 7, 2015. In January 2015, we launched the Zillow Data Dashboard, a new listing management and reporting platform that allows Multiple Listing Services, or MLSs, and brokers to provide listings directly to Zillow. Marketplace of Real Estate Agents We present consumers with ratings and contact information for the listing agent and local buyers agents alongside home profiles and listings for homes to assist them in evaluating and selecting the real estate agent best suited for them. We enhance this offering by providing an online professional directory for consumers to search and contact real estate professionals that they might wish to engage. Our directory includes rich profiles of real estate professionals, including more than 960,000 ratings and reviews provided by our users, allowing consumers to evaluate these agents based on a number of criteria, including neighborhood specialization, number of listings and number of contributions to Zillow Advice. Marketplace of Mortgage Professionals In Zillow Mortgages, consumers can anonymously request free, personalized mortgage quotes from consumer-rated and -reviewed lenders. Consumers can then choose to contact those lenders at their discretion. For the year ended December 31, 2014, consumers submitted more than 25.7 million mortgage loan requests in Zillow Mortgages. As of December 31, 2014, we had published 125,000 reviews of mortgage professionals submitted by our users. Home-Related Advice and Discussions Consumers have many questions and often seek advice during various stages of their home-ownership lifecycle. The Zillow Advice section of our Zillow.com website captures questions and discussion topics from our users, both consumers and real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals. This allows our consumers to ask questions of other consumers and real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals and quickly learn more about relevant topics. Our users have submitted more than 970,000 questions and answers to Zillow Advice as of December 31, 2014. Zillow Advice also provides real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals with an opportunity to help educate consumers and demonstrate 14 Table of Contents their local expertise. These discussions and content are also indexed and searchable by geography and other custom parameters, allowing users to quickly find the information they seek. Email updates are used to provide ongoing monitoring and delivery of posts related to topics of interest. Mobile Access We operate the most popular suite of mobile real estate applications across all major mobile platforms. Our mobile real estate applications provide consumers and real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals with location-based access to many of our products and services, including Zestimates, Rent Zestimates, for sale and rental listings and extensive home-related data. Through our mobile applications, for example, a consumer standing curbside at a home for sale can learn about the homes for-sale price, Zestimate, number of bedrooms, square footage and past sales, as well as similar information about surrounding homes. The consumer can call a real estate professional through our mobile applications to get more information or schedule a showing. During December 2014, 420 million homes were viewed on Zillow on a mobile device, which equates to 157 homes per second. Marketing We believe Zillow has considerable opportunity to increase brand awareness and grow traffic through product development, targeted advertising programs and strategic partnerships. As such, we selectively advertise to consumers and professionals in various online and offline channels that have tested well for us and pursue strategic partnerships that drive traffic and brand awareness for Zillow. At Zillow, marketing begins with product development, which then becomes amplified by effective brand advertising and marketing communications. We create immersive consumer products that people want to use frequently, talk about and share. The engaging nature of our products enables us to execute compelling advertising campaigns integrated with our robust and viral communications program, which together comprise the primary drivers of our brand awareness and traffic acquisition efforts. We launched our consumer brand with communications at the core of our marketing strategy. Next, after years of vigorous field testing, we began large-scale national advertising in early 2013 on television and across other complementary channels. In part as a result of these advertising efforts, our traffic has grown to an estimated 76.7 million average monthly unique users for the three months ended December 31, 2014, an increase of 41% compared to the three months ended December 31, 2013. The majority of our traffic and brand awareness comes direct, not dependent on search engines, with demonstrated consumer intent to visit the Zillow brand. Our communications team includes former print and broadcast journalists who have established Zillow as an authoritative source for information on a broad range of home and real estate-related subjects. A typical week includes commentary from our real estate experts across dozens of national print and broadcast media outlets, guest opinion pieces or blog posts by our chief economist, and wide-ranging national and local media coverage of Zillow products, listings, data and consumer tips. We also produce considerable home and real estate-related content on Zillow Blog that is syndicated across dozens of prominent media sites. Zillow Blog content ranges from real estate market trends, to home financing tips, to celebrity real estate listings. We focus substantial public relations effort around the marketing of our Zillow Real Estate Market Reports, which are in-depth reports produced by our economics and analytics bureau for 805 U.S. markets. Data is released on a monthly and quarterly basis, and Zillow data is widely used by government entities such as the Federal Reserve and Congressional Oversight Panel, as well as regularly featured in respected media outlets such as the Wall Street Journal , New York Times , Bloomberg , Reuters and across numerous national network and cable news shows including CNBC, CNN, Fox News, Bloomberg and MSNBC. We believe the considerable effort we have spent on public relations and social media has allowed us to build a large and credible brand. 15 Table of Contents Our living database of homes creates significant opportunities for home-ownership lifecycle marketing. A typical person will at various times in life be a renter, buyer, homeowner, remodeler, mortgage refinancer or seller, and this presents opportunities to communicate with consumers over many years before, during and after a transaction. We actively communicate with our users through email and social media channels. Sales, Consumer Care and Customer Support Our sales teams are responsible for generating advertising customers across our mobile applications and websites. Our largest sales teams sell our Premier Agent products to real estate agents, and are located in Seattle, Washington and Irvine, California. We also have a sales team in Seattle, Washington that sells our rental products to rental professionals. In addition, we have sales teams in Seattle, Washington, New York, New York and Lincoln, Nebraska that support sales in our real estate and mortgage marketplaces and display advertising. We attract customers through a combination of outbound calling and inbound customer requests generated from our websites and event marketing activities. We also maintain a field sales team in San Francisco, California, New York, New York, Chicago, Illinois, and Detroit, Michigan, to specifically target larger advertising customers in the real estate and related content categories, such as real estate brokerages, home builders, lenders and home service providers, as well as advertisers in the telecommunications, automotive, insurance and other industries. We believe that consumer care and customer support are important to our success. Our consumer care and customer support teams are located primarily in Seattle, Washington. Our customer support team responds to commercial and technical issues from our advertisers, and our consumer care team responds to consumer issues from our user community. The Zillow Advice forum augments our consumer care by enabling consumers to obtain answers to questions from our employees and other members of our user community, including real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals. Technology and Infrastructure Zillow is a data- and technology-driven company. Our technical infrastructure, mobile applications and websites are built to provide consumers and real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals with access to rich real estate data and powerful online tools to help them accomplish their home-related goals. Many of our services are available through real-time web-based application programming interfaces that allow our information to be easily integrated into third-party websites. We provide HTML and JavaScript-based widgets to allow easy integration of Zillow information onto other websites, with little custom programming. Our technology platform is built using industry-leading third-party and internally developed software as well as open source technologies. This combination allows for rapid development and release of high-performance software in a cost-effective and scalable manner. For information about our research and development costs, see Note 2 of the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements included within this annual report. Our technical infrastructure, mobile applications and websites are primarily hosted at a third-party facility located in the Seattle area. Additionally, we utilize third-party web services for cloud computing and storage to assist in service growth and redundancy. Content delivery network solutions have been put in place to ensure fast and local access to content. Development and test environments are located in a data center we manage at our corporate headquarters. Intellectual Property We protect our intellectual property through a combination of trademarks, trade dress, domain names, copyrights, trade secrets and patents, as well as contractual provisions and restrictions on access to our proprietary technology. 16 Table of Contents Our trademarks registered in the United States and several other jurisdictions include Zillow, Zillow.com, Zestimate, Dueling Digs, Make Me Move, Postlets, Diverse Solutions, dsIDXpress, Mortech, Marksman, Hotpads, Hotpads.com, StreetEasy, Streeteasy.com, New York Citys Homepage, Digs, Find Your Way Home, and the Z in a house logo, as well as logos that correspond with several of our other trademarks. We also have filed other trademark applications in the United States and certain other jurisdictions and will pursue additional trademark registrations to the extent we believe it will be beneficial and cost-effective. We have seven patents issued in the United States, one that expires in 2026, two that expire in 2029, four that expire in 2030, and one patent issued in Australia that expires in 2027. These cover proprietary techniques that relate to determining a current value for a real estate property, performing summarization of geographic data points in response to zoom selection, the incorporation of individual aerial images and incorporating visual information into a master planar image, the collection, storage and display of home attribute values, and providing for a multi-faceted search. We have 26 patent applications pending in the United States, which seek to cover proprietary techniques relevant to our products and services. We intend to pursue additional patent protection to the extent we believe it will be beneficial and cost-effective. We are the registered holder of a variety of domestic and international domain names that include Zillow.com, Postlets.com, DiverseSolutions.com, Mortech.com, HotPads.com, Streeteasy.com, our other trademarks and similar variations. In addition to the protection provided by our intellectual property rights, we enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements with our employees, consultants, contractors and business partners. Our employees and contractors are also subject to invention assignment provisions. We further control the use of our proprietary technology and intellectual property through provisions in both our general and product-specific terms of use on our mobile applications and websites. Competition We face competition to attract consumers to our mobile applications and websites and to attract advertisers to purchase our advertising products and services. Competition for Consumers We compete for the attention of consumers with companies that operate, or could develop, national and local real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement mobile applications and websites. We compete for consumers primarily on the basis of the quality of the consumer experience, the utility of the data and services we provide, the breadth, depth and accuracy of information, and brand awareness and reputation. We believe we compete favorably on these factors. Competition for Advertisers We compete for advertising customers, such as real estate professionals, with media companies, including companies dedicated to providing mobile and web-based real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement information and services to real estate professionals and consumers, local brokerage sites and major Internet portals, general search engines and social media sites, as well as other online companies. We also compete for a share of advertisers overall marketing budgets with traditional media such as newspapers, television, magazines, and home/apartment guide publications, particularly with respect to advertising dollars spent at the local level by real estate agents, mortgage lenders, property managers or rental agents to advertise their qualifications or listings. We compete for advertising revenue based on perceived return on investment, the effectiveness and relevance of our advertising products, pricing structure and our ability to effectively deliver types of ads to targeted demographics. We believe we compete favorably on these factors. 17 Table of Contents Government Regulation We are affected by laws and regulations that apply to businesses in general, as well as to businesses operating on the Internet and through mobile applications. This includes a continually expanding and evolving range of laws, regulations and standards that address information security, data protection, privacy, consent and advertising, among other things. By providing a medium through which users can post content and communicate with one another, we may also be subject to laws governing intellectual property ownership, obscenity, libel, and privacy, among other issues. In addition, the real estate agents, mortgage brokers, banks, property managers, rental agents and some of our other customers and advertisers on our mobile applications and websites are subject to various state and federal laws and regulations relating to real estate, rentals and mortgages. We endeavor to ensure that any content created by Zillow is consistent with such laws and regulations by obtaining assurances of compliance from our advertisers and consumers for their activities through, and the content they provide on, our mobile applications and websites. Since the laws and regulations governing real estate, rentals and mortgages are constantly evolving, it is possible that some part of our business activities could fall within the scope of regulation or be prohibited altogether at some point in the future. Employees As of December 31, 2014, we had 1,215 full-time employees. Where You Can Find More Information Our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, are available on our website at www.zillow.com, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after the electronic filing of these reports with the SEC. The information contained on our website is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Investors and others should note that we announce material financial information to our investors using our investor relations website, press releases, SEC filings, and public conference calls and webcasts. We also use the following social media channels as a means of disclosing information about the company, our services, and other matters, and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD: Zillow Twitter Account (https://twitter.com/zillow) Zillow for Pros Twitter Account (https://twitter.com/ZillowforPros) Zillow Facebook Page (https://www.facebook.com/Zillow) Zillow Company Blog (http://www.zillowblog.com/) The information we post through these social media channels may be deemed material. Accordingly, investors should monitor these accounts and the blog, in addition to following our investor relations website, press releases, SEC filings, and public conference calls and webcasts. This list may be updated from time to time. The information we post through these channels is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 18 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to numerous risks. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as any of these risks could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and our prospects. In addition, risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks Related to the Proposed Acquisition of Trulia We May Not Complete the Proposed Acquisition of Trulia, Inc. Within the Time Frame We Anticipate or at All, Which Could Have a Negative Effect on our Business or our Results of Operations. On July 28, 2014, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement) with Zebra Holdco, Inc., a Washington corporation (HoldCo), and Trulia, Inc., a Delaware corporation (Trulia), pursuant to which all of the outstanding shares of Trulia and all of the outstanding shares of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock, will be exchanged for shares in a newly formed holding company. Although the closing conditions related to the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, have been satisfied and we anticipate that the closing will occur as early as February 17, 2015, the transaction remains subject to other customary closing conditions. In the event that the transaction is not consummated or is materially delayed for any reason, we will have spent considerable time and resources, and incurred substantial costs related to the acquisition, many of which must be paid even if the merger is not completed. We cannot provide any assurance that the Trulia transaction will be completed, that there will not be a delay in the completion of the acquisition, or that all or any of the anticipated benefits of the transaction will be obtained. If the acquisition is not consummated, our reputation in our industry and in the investment community could be damaged, and the market price of our Class A common stock could decline. If the Merger Agreement is Terminated, We May, Under Certain Circumstances, Be Obligated to Pay a Termination Fee to Trulia. These Costs Could Require Us to Use Available Cash that Would Have Otherwise been Available for General Corporate Purposes. If the Merger Agreement is terminated in certain circumstances, Zillow or Trulia, as applicable, would be required to pay the other a termination fee of $69.8 million. In addition, the Merger Agreement provides that, in certain other circumstances, Zillow would be required to pay Trulia a termination fee of $150 million. If the Merger Agreement is terminated, the termination fee we may be required to pay may require us to use available cash that would have otherwise been available for general corporate purposes. For these and other reasons, a failed merger could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition, the price per share of our Class A common stock or our perceived acquisition value. We May Experience Difficulties in Integrating Our and Trulias Operations and Realizing the Expected Benefits of the Acquisition of Trulia. The success of the proposed acquisition of Trulia, if completed, will depend in part on our ability to realize the anticipated business opportunities and growth prospects from combining with Trulia in an efficient and effective manner. We may never realize these business opportunities and growth prospects. Further, our management might have its attention diverted while trying to integrate operations and corporate and administrative infrastructures. Trulia will continue to operate independently of us until the closing of the transaction. The integration process could take longer than anticipated and could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of each companys ongoing businesses, tax costs or inefficiencies, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, information technology systems, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, employees or other third parties, or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the transaction, and could harm our financial performance. If we are unable to successfully or timely integrate the 19 Table of Contents operations of Trulias business with our business, we may incur unanticipated liabilities and be unable to realize the revenue growth, synergies and other anticipated benefits resulting from the proposed transaction, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business If Real Estate, Rental and Mortgage Professionals or Other Advertisers Reduce or End Their Advertising Spending With Us and We are Unable to Attract New Advertisers, Our Business Would Be Harmed. Our current financial model depends on advertising revenue generated primarily through sales to real estate agents and brokerages, rental professionals, mortgage lenders and advertisers in categories relevant to real estate. Our ability to attract and retain advertisers, and ultimately to generate advertising revenue, depends on a number of factors, including: increasing the number of consumers of our products and services; competing effectively for advertising dollars with other online media companies; continuing to develop our advertising products and services, including the expansion of those products and services to new advertising customers; keeping pace with changes in technology and with our competitors; and offering an attractive return on investment to our advertisers for their advertising spending with us. We do not have long-term contracts with most of our advertisers. Our advertisers could choose to modify or discontinue their relationships with us with little or no advance notice. In addition, as existing contracts for our Premier Agent program expire, we may not be successful in renewing these contracts, securing new contracts or increasing the amount of revenue we earn for a given contract over time. We may not succeed in retaining existing advertisers spending or capturing a greater share of such spending if we are unable to convince advertisers of the effectiveness or superiority of our products as compared to alternatives, including traditional offline advertising media such as television and newspapers. In addition, future changes to our pricing methodology for advertising services may cause advertisers to reduce their advertising with us or choose not to advertise with us. If current advertisers reduce or end their advertising spending with us and we are unable to attract new advertisers, our advertising revenue and business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. In addition, if we do not realize the benefits we expect from strategic relationships we enter into, including for example, the generation of additional advertising revenue opportunities, our business could be harmed. If We Do Not Innovate and Provide Products and Services That Are Attractive to Our Users and to Our Advertisers, Our Business Could Be Harmed. Our success depends on our continued innovation to provide products and services that make our mobile applications and websites useful for consumers and real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals, and attractive to our advertisers. As a result, we must continually invest significant resources in research and development to improve the attractiveness and comprehensiveness of our products and services and effectively incorporate new mobile and Internet technologies into them. If we are unable to provide products and services that users, including real estate professionals, want to use, then users may become dissatisfied and use competitors mobile applications and websites. If we are unable to continue offering innovative products and services, we may be unable to attract additional users and advertisers or retain our current users and advertisers, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We May Be Unable to Increase Awareness of the Zillow Brand Cost-effectively, Which Could Harm Our Business. We rely heavily on the Zillow brand, which we believe is a key asset of our company. Awareness and perceived quality and differentiation of the Zillow brand are important aspects of our efforts to attract and expand 20 Table of Contents the number of consumers who use our mobile applications and websites. Should the competition for awareness and brand preference increase among providers of mobile or online real estate information, we may not be able to successfully maintain or enhance the strength of our brand. In 2013 and 2014, we significantly increased our advertising investment to increase brand awareness and grow traffic. In the year ended December 31, 2014, our marketing and advertising expenses increased by $34.7 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2013, primarily related to increased advertising spend to acquire shoppers across online and offline channels. We expect to continue to increase our paid advertising. The results of increased paid advertising may not be successful or cost-effective. If we are unable to maintain or enhance user and advertiser awareness of our brand cost-effectively, or if we are unable to recover our additional marketing and advertising costs through increased usage of our products and services, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. We Have Incurred Significant Operating Losses in the Past and We May Not Be Able to Generate Sufficient Revenue to Be Profitable Over the Long Term. We have incurred significant net operating losses in the past and, as of December 31, 2014, we had an accumulated deficit of $127.7 million. Although we have experienced significant growth in our revenue, our revenue growth rate may decline in the future as the result of a variety of factors, including the maturation of our business. At the same time, we also expect our costs to increase in future periods as we continue to expend substantial financial resources to develop and expand our business, including on: product development; sales and marketing; technology infrastructure; strategic opportunities, including commercial relationships and acquisitions; and general administration, including legal and accounting expenses related to being a public company. These investments may not result in increased revenue or growth in our business. If we fail to continue to grow our revenue and overall business and to manage our expenses, we may incur significant losses in the future and not be able to maintain profitability. We Depend on the Real Estate Industry, and Changes to That Industry, or Declines in the Real Estate Market or Increases in Mortgage Interest Rates, Could Reduce the Demand for Our Products and Services. Our financial prospects significantly depend on real estate shoppers using our services. Real estate shopping patterns depend on the overall health of the real estate market. Changes to the regulation of the real estate industry, including mortgage lending, may negatively impact the prevalence of home ownership. Changes to the real estate industry, declines in the real estate market or increases in mortgage interest rates could reduce demand for our services. Real estate markets also may be negatively impacted by a significant natural disaster, such as earthquake, fire, flood or other disruption. We May Not Be Able to Maintain or Establish Relationships With Real Estate Brokerages, Real Estate Listing Aggregators, Multiple Listing Services, Property Management Companies, Home Builders and Other Third-Party Listing Providers, Which Could Limit the Information We Are Able to Provide to Our Users. Our ability to attract users to our mobile applications and websites depends to some degree on providing a robust number of for-sale and rental listings. To provide these listings, we maintain relationships with real estate brokerages, real estate listing aggregators, multiple listing services, property management companies, home builders, other third-party listing providers, and homeowners and their real estate agents to include listing data in our services. Many of our agreements with real estate listing providers are short-term agreements that may be terminated with limited notice. The loss of some of our existing relationships with listing providers, whether due to termination of agreements or otherwise, or an inability to continue to add new listing providers, may cause our 21 Table of Contents listing data to omit information important to users of our products and services. This could reduce user confidence in the sale and rental data we provide and make us less popular with consumers, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. For the year ended December 31, 2014, a substantial portion of the listings displayed on our mobile applications and websites was provided to us by a single real estate listing aggregator pursuant to a platform services agreement. These listings provide for revenue-generating opportunities as impressions are delivered through our mobile applications and websites. While these listings are available from their original sources, it would take substantial time and effort for us to aggregate these listings from all of the original sources. Pursuant to its terms, the platform services agreement will expire on April 7, 2015. In January 2015, we launched the Zillow Data Dashboard, a new listing management and reporting platform that allows Multiple Listing Services, or MLSs, and brokers to provide listings directly to Zillow. However, when the platform services agreement expires, we may not be able to fully replace the listings through the Zillow Data Dashboard or other sources in a timely manner or on terms favorable to us, if at all, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We May Not Be Able to Maintain or Establish Relationships With Data Providers, Which Could Limit the Information We Are Able to Provide to Our Users and Impair Our Ability to Attract or Retain Users. We obtain real estate data, such as sale transactions, property descriptions, tax-assessed value and property taxes paid, under licenses from third-party data providers. We use this data to enable the development, maintenance and improvement of our information services, including Zestimates and Rent Zestimates and our living database of homes. We have invested significant time and resources to develop proprietary algorithms, valuation models, software and practices to use and improve on this specific data. We may be unable to renew our licenses with these data providers, or we may be able to do so only on terms that are less favorable to us, which could harm our ability to continue to develop, maintain and improve these information services and could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We Face Competition to Attract Consumers to Our Mobile Applications and Websites, Which Could Impair Our Ability to Continue to Grow the Number of Users Who Use Our Mobile Applications and Websites, Which Would Harm Our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition. Our success depends on our ability to continue to attract additional consumers to our mobile applications and websites. Our existing and potential competitors include companies that operate, or could develop, national and local real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement websites. These companies could devote greater technical and other resources than we have available, have a more accelerated time frame for deployment and leverage their existing user bases and proprietary technologies to provide products and services that consumers might view as superior to our offerings. Any of our future or existing competitors may introduce different solutions that attract consumers or provide solutions similar to our own but with better branding or marketing resources. If we are not able to continue to grow the number of consumers who use our mobile applications and websites, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. We May Not Be Able to Compete Successfully Against Our Existing or Future Competitors in Attracting Advertisers, Which Could Harm Our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition. We compete to attract advertisers with media sites, including websites dedicated to providing real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement information and services to real estate professionals and consumers, and major Internet portals, general search engines and social media sites, as well as other online companies. We also compete for a share of advertisers overall marketing budgets with traditional media such as television, magazines, newspapers and home/apartment guide publications, particularly with respect to advertising dollars spent at the local level by real estate professionals to advertise their qualifications and listings. Large companies with significant brand recognition have large numbers of direct sales personnel and substantial proprietary advertising inventory and web traffic, which may provide a competitive advantage. To compete successfully for 22 Table of Contents advertisers against future and existing competitors, we must continue to invest resources in developing our advertising platform and proving the effectiveness and relevance of our advertising products and services. Pressure from competitors seeking to acquire a greater share of our advertisers overall marketing budget could adversely affect our pricing and margins, lower our revenue, and increase our research and development and marketing expenses. If we are unable to compete successfully against our existing or future competitors, our business, results of operations or financial condition would be harmed. If We Fail to Manage Our Growth Effectively, Our Brand, Results of Operations and Business Could Be Harmed. We have experienced rapid growth in our headcount and operations, which places substantial demand on management and our operational infrastructure. The majority of our employees have been with us for fewer than two years. As we continue to grow, we must effectively integrate, develop and motivate a large number of new employees, while maintaining the beneficial aspects of our company culture. In particular, we intend to pursue strategic opportunities and make substantial investments in our technology and development and sales and marketing organizations. If we do not manage the growth of our business and operations effectively, the quality of our services and efficiency of our operations could suffer, which could harm our brand, results of operations and overall business. Our Dedication to Making Decisions Based Primarily on the Best Interests of Consumers May Cause Us to Forgo Short-Term Gains. Our guiding principle is to build our business by making decisions based primarily on the best interests of consumers, which we believe has been essential to our success in increasing our user growth rate and engagement and has served the long-term interests of our company and our shareholders. In the past, we have forgone, and we will in the future forgo, certain expansion or short-term revenue opportunities that we do not believe are in the best interests of consumers, even if such decisions negatively impact our short-term results of operations. In addition, our philosophy of putting consumers first may negatively impact our relationships with our existing or prospective advertisers. This could result in a loss of advertisers, which could harm our revenue and results of operations. For example, we believe that some real estate agents have chosen not to purchase our Premier Agent product because we display a Zestimate on their for-sale listings. We believe, however, that it is valuable to consumers to have access to a valuation starting point on all homes and so we display a Zestimate on every home in our database for which we have sufficient data to produce the Zestimate. Similarly, we gather, and make available to our consumers, reviews on real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals, even if those reviews are unfavorable. Although real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement professionals who receive unfavorable reviews may be less likely to purchase our advertising products and services, we continue to post favorable and unfavorable reviews because we believe the reviews are useful to consumers in finding the right professional. Our principle of making decisions based primarily on the best interests of consumers may not result in the long-term benefits that we expect, in which case our user traffic and engagement, business and results of operations could be harmed. We May Make Acquisitions and Investments, Which Could Result in Operating Difficulties, Dilution and Other Harmful Consequences. We continue to evaluate a wide array of potential strategic opportunities, including acquisitions. Any transactions that we enter into could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. The acquisitions may not result in the intended benefits to our business, and we may not successfully evaluate or utilize the acquired products, technology, or personnel, or accurately forecast the financial impact of an acquisition transaction. The process of integrating an acquired company, business or technology could create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. The areas where we face risks include: diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to acquisition integration challenges; 23 Table of Contents implementation or remediation of controls, procedures and policies at the acquired company; coordination of product, engineering and sales and marketing functions; retention of employees from the acquired company; liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition; litigation or other claims arising in connection with the acquired company; and impairment charges associated with goodwill and other acquired intangible assets. Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions and investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions or investments, incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. If Use of Mobile Technology and the Internet, Particularly With Respect to Real Estate Products and Services, Does Not Continue to Increase as Rapidly as We Anticipate, Our Business Could Be Harmed. Our future success substantially depends on the continued use of mobile technology and the Internet as effective media of business and communication by our consumers. Mobile technology and Internet use may not continue to develop at historical rates, and consumers may not continue to use mobile technology or the Internet as media for information exchange. Further, these media may not be accepted as viable long-term outlets for information for a number of reasons, including actual or perceived lack of security of information and possible disruptions of service or connectivity. If consumers begin to access real estate information through other media and we fail to innovate, our business may be negatively impacted. We Rely on the Performance of Highly Skilled Personnel, and if We Are Unable to Attract, Retain and Motivate Well-Qualified Employees, Our Business Could Be Harmed. We believe our success has depended, and continues to depend, on the efforts and talents of our management and our highly skilled team of employees, including our software engineers, statisticians, marketing professionals and advertising sales staff. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain highly qualified and skilled employees. The loss of any of our senior management or key employees could materially adversely affect our ability to build on the efforts they have undertaken and to execute our business plan, and we may not be able to find adequate replacements. We cannot ensure that we will be able to retain the services of any members of our senior management or other key employees. If we do not succeed in attracting well-qualified employees or retaining and motivating existing employees, our business could be harmed. If Our Security Measures Are Compromised, Consumers May Curtail Use of Our Products and Services and Advertisers May Reduce Their Advertising on Our Mobile Applications and Websites. Our products and services involve the transmission and/or storage of users information, some of which may be private or include personally identifiable information such as social security numbers and credit card information, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or exposure of this information, which could result in potential liability and litigation. For example, a hacker could steal a users profile password and manipulate information about that users home or post to a forum while posing as that user. Like all mobile application and website providers, our mobile applications and websites are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, phishing attacks, attempts to overload our servers with denial-of-service or other attacks, and similar disruptions from unauthorized use of our computer systems, any of which could lead to interruptions, delays, or website shutdowns, causing loss of critical data or the unauthorized disclosure or use of personal or other confidential information. Further, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees, users or advertisers to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our information or our users or advertisers information, and our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. If we experience compromises to our security that result in mobile application or website performance or availability problems, the complete 24 Table of Contents shutdown of our mobile applications or websites, or the loss or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, our users and advertisers may lose trust and confidence in us, we may be subject to legal claims and additional state and federal statutory requirements, users may decrease the use of our mobile applications or websites or stop using our mobile applications or websites in their entirety, and advertisers may decrease or stop advertising on our mobile applications or websites. In April 2014, for example, we detected degraded performance to our website, Zillow.com, due to a saturation of available inbound network bandwidth. Upon detection, standard response protocols were immediately initiated, filtering analogous traffic and restoring network performance. This incident did not have a material adverse effect on our business, and our internal controls were not compromised. We implemented additional network detection tools to identify and filter malicious traffic to our website. Despite the additional network detection tools we implemented, we cannot ensure that we will not experience future incidents. We depend on data storage vendors to store certain user information, some of which may be private or include personally identifiable information. If our data storage vendors fail to maintain adequate information security systems and our users information is compromised, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Further, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently, often are not recognized until launched against a target, and may originate from less regulated and remote areas around the world, we may be unable to proactively address all these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Any or all of these issues could negatively impact our ability to attract new users and increase engagement by existing users, cause existing users to curtail or stop use of our products or services or close their accounts, cause existing advertisers to cancel their contracts, or subject us to third-party lawsuits, regulatory fines or other action or liability, thereby harming our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any Significant Disruption in Service on Our Mobile Applications or Websites or in Our Network Could Damage Our Reputation and Brand, and Result in a Loss of Users of Our Products and Services and of Advertisers, Which Could Harm Our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition. Our brand, reputation and ability to attract users and advertisers depend on the reliable performance of our network infrastructure and content delivery processes. We have experienced minor interruptions in these systems in the past, including server failures that temporarily slowed the performance of our mobile applications and websites, and we may experience interruptions in the future. Interruptions in these systems, whether due to system failures, computer viruses, software errors or physical or electronic break-ins, could affect the security or availability of our products and services on our mobile applications and websites and prevent or inhibit the ability of users to access our services. Since our users may rely on our products and services, including our free customer relationship management tools, for important aspects of their businesses, problems with the reliability, availability or security of our systems could damage our users businesses, harm our reputation, result in a loss of users of our products and services and of advertisers and result in additional costs, any of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. The majority of the communications, network and computer hardware used to operate our mobile applications and websites are located at facilities in the Seattle, Washington area. We do not own or control the operation of certain of these facilities. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, acts of war, electronic and physical break-ins, computer viruses, earthquakes and similar events. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events could result in damage to our systems and hardware or could cause them to fail completely, and our insurance may not cover such events or may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. A failure of our systems at one site could result in reduced functionality for our users, and a total failure of our systems could cause our mobile applications or websites to be inaccessible. Problems faced by our third-party web-hosting providers with the telecommunications network providers with which they contract or with the 25 Table of Contents systems by which they allocate capacity among their customers, including us, could adversely affect the experience of our users. Our third-party web-hosting providers could decide to close their facilities without adequate notice. Any financial difficulties, such as bankruptcy reorganization, faced by our third-party web-hosting providers or any of the service providers with whom they contract may have negative effects on our business, the nature and extent of which are difficult to predict. If our third-party web-hosting providers are unable to keep up with our growing needs for capacity, our business could be harmed. In addition, if distribution channels for our mobile applications experience disruptions, such disruptions could adversely affect the ability of users and potential users to access or update our mobile applications, which could harm our business. We do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for the potentially significant losses, including the potential harm to the future growth of our business, which may result from interruptions in our service as a result of system failures. Any errors, defects, disruptions or other performance problems with our services could harm our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. We are From Time to Time Involved In, or May In the Future be Subject to, Claims, Suits, Government Investigations, and Other Proceedings That May Result In Adverse Outcomes. We are from time to time involved in, or may in the future be subject to, claims, suits, government investigations, and proceedings arising from our business, including actions with respect to intellectual property claims, privacy, consumer protection, information security, data protection or law enforcement matters, tax matters, labor and employment claims, commercial claims, as well as actions involving content generated by our users, shareholder derivative actions, purported class action lawsuits, and other matters. Such claims, suits, government investigations, and proceedings are inherently uncertain and their results cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of the outcome, any such legal proceedings can have an adverse impact on us because of legal costs, diversion of management and other personnel, and other factors. In addition, it is possible that a resolution of one or more such proceedings could result in reputational harm, liability, penalties, or sanctions, as well as judgments, consent decrees, or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services, or requiring a change in our business practices, products or technologies, which could in the future materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. See Legal Proceedings below in Part I, Item 3. We Are Subject to a Variety of Federal and State Laws, Many of Which Are Unsettled and Still Developing and Which Could Subject Us to Claims or Otherwise Harm Our Business. We are subject to a variety of federal and state laws that are continuously evolving and developing, including laws regarding the real estate, rental, mortgage and home improvement industries, mobile- and Internet-based businesses and other businesses that rely on advertising, as well as privacy and consumer protection laws. These laws can be costly to comply with, can require significant management time and effort, and can subject us to claims or other remedies. These laws may conflict with each other, and if we comply with the laws of one jurisdiction, we may find that we are violating laws of another jurisdiction. Additionally, our ability to provide a specific target audience to advertisers is a significant competitive advantage. Any legislation reducing this ability would have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. If we are unable to comply with these laws or regulations, if we become liable under these laws or regulations, or if unfavorable regulations or unfavorable interpretations of existing regulations by courts or regulatory bodies are implemented, we could be directly harmed and forced to implement new measures to reduce our exposure to this liability and it could cause the development of product or service offerings in affected markets to become impractical. This may require us to expend substantial resources or to discontinue certain products or services, limit our ability to expand our product and services offerings, or expand into new markets or otherwise harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the increased attention focused on liability issues as a result of lawsuits and legislative proposals could harm our reputation or otherwise impact the growth of our business. Any costs incurred as a result of this potential liability could harm our business and results of operations. 26 Table of Contents We assist with the processing of customer credit card transactions and consumer credit report requests, which results in us receiving personally identifiable information. This information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulation in the United States. This legislation and regulation is generally intended to protect the privacy and security of personal information, including credit card information that is collected, processed and transmitted. We could be adversely affected if government regulations require us to significantly change our business practices with respect to this type of information. We May in the Future Be Subject to Disputes Regarding the Accuracy of Our Zestimates and Rent Zestimates. We provide our users with Zestimate and Rent Zestimate home and rental valuations. A Zestimate is our estimated current market value of a home based on our proprietary automated valuation models that apply advanced algorithms to analyze our data; it is not an appraisal. A Rent Zestimate is our estimated current monthly rental price of a home, using similar automated valuation models that we have designed to address the unique attributes of rental homes. Revisions to our automated valuation models, or the algorithms that underlie them, may cause certain Zestimates or Rent Zestimates to vary from our expectations for those Zestimates or Rent Zestimates. In addition, from time to time, users disagree with our Zestimates and Rent Zestimates. Any such variation in Zestimates or Rent Zestimates or disagreements could result in distraction from our business or potentially harm our reputation and could result in legal disputes. We May Be Unable to Continue to Use the Domain Names That We Use in Our Business, or Prevent Third Parties From Acquiring and Using Domain Names That Infringe on, Are Similar to, or Otherwise Decrease the Value of Our Brand or Our Trademarks or Service Marks. We have registered domain names for our websites that we use in our business. If we lose the ability to use a domain name, we may incur significant expenses to market our products and services under a new domain name, which could harm our business. In addition, our competitors could attempt to capitalize on our brand recognition by using domain names similar to ours. Domain names similar to ours have been registered in the United States and elsewhere. We may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring and using domain names that infringe on, are similar to, or otherwise decrease the value of our brand or our trademarks or service marks. Protecting and enforcing our rights in our domain names and determining the rights of others may require litigation, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of managements attention. We May Be Unable to Adequately Protect Our Intellectual Property, Which Could Harm the Value of Our Brand and Our Business. We regard our intellectual property as critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright and patent law, trade secret protection and contracts to protect our proprietary rights. If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property, the value of our brand and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. While we believe that our issued patents and pending patent applications help to protect our business, we cannot ensure that our operations do not, or will not, infringe valid, enforceable patents of third parties or that competitors will not devise new methods of competing with us that are not covered by our patents or patent applications. We cannot ensure that our patent applications will be approved, that any patents issued will adequately protect our intellectual property, that such patents will not be challenged by third parties or found to be invalid or unenforceable, or that our patents will be effective in preventing third parties from utilizing a copycat business model to offer the same products or services. Moreover, we rely on intellectual property and technology developed or licensed by third parties, and we may not be able to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties on reasonable terms or at all. Effective trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services may be provided. The laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States and, therefore, in certain jurisdictions, we 27 Table of Contents may be unable to protect intellectual property and our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could harm our competitive position. We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to third parties. These licensees may take actions that might diminish the value of our proprietary rights or harm our reputation, even if we have agreements prohibiting such activity. To the extent third parties are obligated to indemnify us for breaches of our intellectual property rights, these third parties may be unable to meet these obligations. Any of these events could harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, we may actively pursue entities that infringe our intellectual property, including through legal action. Taking such action may be costly, and we cannot ensure that such actions will be successful. Any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive for us to do business and harm our results of operations or financial condition. Intellectual Property Disputes Are Costly to Defend and Could Harm Our Business, Results of Operations, Financial Condition and Reputation. From time to time, we face allegations that we have infringed the trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights of third parties. We are currently subject to patent infringement claims. These claims allege, among other things, that aspects of our technology infringe upon the plaintiffs patents. If we are not successful in defending ourselves against these claims, we may be required to pay damages and may be subject to injunctions, each of which could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and reputation. We may be subject to future claims or allegations relating to our intellectual property rights. As we grow our business and expand our operations, we expect that we will continue to be subject to intellectual property claims and allegations. Patent and other intellectual property disputes or litigation may be protracted and expensive, and the results are difficult to predict and may require us to stop offering certain products, services or features, purchase licenses that may be expensive to procure, or modify our products or services. In addition, patent or other intellectual property disputes or litigation may result in significant settlement costs. Any of these events could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and reputation. In addition, we use open source software in our services and will continue to use open source software in the future. From time to time, we may be subject to claims brought against companies that incorporate open source software into their products or services, claiming ownership of, or demanding release of, the source code, the open source software and/or derivative works that were developed using such software, or otherwise seeking to enforce the terms of the applicable open source license. These claims could also result in litigation, require us to purchase a costly license, or require us to devote additional research and development resources to changing our products or services, any of which would have a negative effect on our business and results of operations. Even if these matters do not result in litigation or are resolved in our favor or without significant cash settlements, the time and resources necessary to resolve them could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and reputation. Confidentiality Agreements With Employees and Others May Not Adequately Prevent Disclosure of Trade Secrets and Other Proprietary Information. In order to protect our technologies and processes, we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, licensees, independent contractors and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information, including trade secrets, and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such parties. To the extent that our employees, contractors or other third parties with whom we do business use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. The loss of trade secret protection could make it easier for third parties to 28 Table of Contents compete with our products by copying functionality. In addition, any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, intellectual property laws may compromise our ability to enforce our trade secret and intellectual property rights. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain protection of our trade secrets or other proprietary information could harm our business, results of operations, reputation and competitive position. We May Not Be Able to Halt the Operations of Websites That Aggregate or Misappropriate Our Data. From time to time, third parties have misappropriated our data through website scraping, robots or other means, and aggregated this data on their websites with data from other companies. In addition, copycat websites have misappropriated data on our network and attempted to imitate our brand or the functionality of our websites. When we have become aware of such websites, we have employed technological or legal measures in an attempt to halt their operations. We may not be able, however, to detect all such websites in a timely manner and, even if we could, technological and legal measures may be insufficient to halt their operations. In some cases, particularly in the case of websites operating outside of the United States, our available remedies may not be adequate to protect us against the impact of the operation of such websites. Regardless of whether we can successfully enforce our rights against the operators of these websites, any measures that we may take could require us to expend significant financial or other resources, which could harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, to the extent that such activity creates confusion among consumers or advertisers, our brand and business could be harmed. We Are Subject to a Number of Risks Related to the Credit Card and Debit Card Payments We Accept. We accept payments through credit and debit card transactions. For credit and debit card payments, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time. An increase in those fees may require us to increase the prices we charge and would increase our operating expenses, either of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on processing vendors to complete credit and debit card transactions. If we or our processing vendors fail to maintain adequate systems for the authorization and processing of credit card transactions, it could cause one or more of the major credit card companies to disallow our continued use of their payment products. In addition, if these systems fail to work properly and, as a result, we do not charge our customers credit cards on a timely basis or at all, our business, revenue, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it more difficult for us to comply. We are required to comply with payment card industry security standards. Failing to comply with those standards may violate payment card association operating rules, federal and state laws and regulations, and the terms of our contracts with payment processors. Any failure to comply fully also may subject us to fines, penalties, damages and civil liability, and may result in the loss of our ability to accept credit and debit card payments. Further, there is no guarantee that such compliance will prevent illegal or improper use of our payment systems or the theft, loss, or misuse of data pertaining to credit and debit cards, card holders and transactions. If we fail to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions, we may face civil liability, diminished public perception of our security measures, and significantly higher credit card-related costs, each of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to maintain our chargeback rate or refund rates at acceptable levels, our processing vendors may increase our transaction fees or terminate their relationships with us. Any increases in our credit and debit 29 Table of Contents card fees could harm our results of operations, particularly if we elect not to raise our rates for our service to offset the increase. The termination of our ability to process payments on any major credit or debit card would significantly impair our ability to operate our business. We Expect Our Results of Operations to Fluctuate on a Quarterly and Annual Basis. Our revenue and results of operations could vary significantly from period to period and may fail to match expectations as a result of a variety of factors, some of which are outside our control. The other risk factors discussed in this Risk Factors section may contribute to the variability of our quarterly and annual results. In addition, our results may fluctuate as a result of fluctuations in the quantity of, and the price at which we are able to sell, our remnant advertising and the size and seasonal variability of our advertisers marketing budgets. As a result of the potential variations in our revenue and results of operations, period-to-period comparisons may not be meaningful and the results of any one period should not be relied on as an indication of future performance. In addition, our results of operations may not meet the expectations of investors or public market analysts who follow us, which may adversely affect our stock price. Our Ability to Use Our Net Operating Loss Carryforwards and Certain Other Tax Attributes May Be Limited. As of December 31, 2014, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $358.6 million, state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $7.2 million (tax effected), and tax credit carryforwards of approximately $6.5 million. Under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, if a corporation undergoes an ownership change, the corporations ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes, such as research tax credits, to offset its post-change income or income tax liability may be limited. In general, an ownership change will occur if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by certain 5-percent shareholders that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. In connection with our August 2013 public offering of our Class A Common stock, we experienced an ownership change that triggered Section 382 and 383, which may limit our ability to utilize net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. If we experience one or more ownership changes in the future as a result of future transactions in our stock, our ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards could be limited. Furthermore, our ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards of any companies that we have acquired or may acquire in the future may be limited. As a result, if we earn net taxable income, our ability to use our pre-change net operating loss carryforwards, other pre-change tax attributes, or net operating loss carryforwards of any acquired companies to offset our federal taxable income or reduce our federal income tax liability may be subject to limitation. The Requirements of Being a Public Company May Strain Our Resources and Distract Our Management, Which Could Make It Difficult to Manage Our Business. We are required to comply with various regulatory and reporting requirements, including those required by the SEC. Complying with these reporting and other regulatory requirements can be time-consuming and results in increased costs to us and could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. These requirements could strain our systems and resources. The Exchange Act also requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Exchange Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure