Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in this report and the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009. The Company has evaluated subsequent events through the date of this filing. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. 6 Revenue Recognition The Company generates substantially all of its revenue from the sale of targeted advertising campaigns that are delivered via its network of websites and events. Revenue is recognized only when the price is fixed or determinable, persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the service is performed and collectability of the resulting receivable is reasonably assured. Although each of the Companys online media offerings can be sold separately, most of the Companys online media sales involve multiple online offerings. Because objective evidence of fair value does not exist for all elements in the Companys bundled advertising campaigns, no allocation can be made among the various elements, and the Company recognizes revenue on all items ratably over the term of the arrangement. Event Sponsorships. Sponsorship revenue from events is recognized upon completion of the event in the period the event occurs. The majority of the Companys events are free to qualified attendees, however certain events are based on a paid attendee model. The Company recognizes revenue for paid attendee events upon completion of the event and receipt of payment from the attendee. Amounts collected or billed prior to satisfying the above revenue recognition criteria are recorded as deferred revenue. Online Media. Revenue for online media offerings is recognized for specific online media offerings as follows when these items are sold separately: White Papers. White paper revenue is recognized ratably over the period in which the white paper is available on the Companys websites. Webcasts, Podcasts and Videocasts. Webcast, podcast and videocast revenue is recognized ratably over the period in which the webcast, podcast or videocast is available on the Companys websites. Software Package Comparisons. Software package comparison revenue is recognized ratably over the period in which the software information is available on the Companys websites. Promotional E-mails and E-newsletters. Promotional e-mail revenue is recognized ratably over the period in which the related content asset is available on its websites because promotional emails do not have standalone value from the related content asset. E-newsletter revenue is recognized in the period in which the e-newsletter is sent. List Rentals. List rental revenue is recognized in the period in which the e-mail is sent to the list of registered members. Banners. Banner revenue is recognized in the period in which the banner impressions occur. Third Party Revenue Sharing Arrangements. Revenue from third party revenue sharing arrangements is recognized on a net basis in the period in which the services are performed. The Company offers customers the ability to purchase integrated ROI program offerings, which can include any of its online media offerings packaged together to address the particular customers specific advertising requirements. As part of these offerings, the Company will guarantee a minimum number of qualified sales leads to be delivered over the course of the advertising campaign. Scheduled end dates of advertising campaigns are sometimes extended to satisfy lead guarantees or fulfill all elements of the advertising campaign based on delayed receipt of advertising media collateral from the customer. The Company estimates the revenue reserve necessary to properly defer revenue recognition for extended advertising campaigns. These estimates are based on the Companys experience in managing and fulfilling t hese integrated ROI program offerings. Historically, shortfalls in fulfilling lead guarantees before the scheduled completion date of an advertising campaign are satisfied within an average of 39 days of such scheduled completion date. These integrated ROI program offerings represented approximately 48% and 45% of online revenues, and 42% and 39% of total revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Amounts collected or billed prior to satisfying the above revenue recognition criteria are recorded as deferred revenue. 7 Fair Value of Financial Instruments Financial instruments consist of cash and cash equivalents, short and long-term investments, accounts receivable and accounts payable. The carrying value of these instruments approximates their estimated fair values. Long-lived Assets Long-lived assets consist of property and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets. A specifically identified intangible asset must be recorded as a separate asset from goodwill if either of the following two criteria is met: (1) the intangible asset acquired arises from contractual or other legal rights; or (2) the intangible asset is separable. Accordingly, intangible assets consist of specifically identified intangible assets. Goodwill is the excess of any purchase price over the estimated fair market value of net tangible assets acquired not allocated to specific intangible assets. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized, but are reviewed annually for impairment or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. Separable intangible assets that are not deemed to have an indefinite life are amortized over their estimated useful lives, which range from one to nine years, using methods of amortization that are expected to reflect the estimated pattern of economic use, and are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances suggest that the assets may not be recoverable. The Company performs its annual test of impairment of goodwill on December 31st of each year, and whenever events or changes in circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Based on this evaluation, the Company believes that, as of each of the balance sheet dates presented, none of the Companys goodwill or other long-lived assets were impaired. Internal Use Software and Website Development Costs The Company capitalizes costs incurred during the development of its website applications and infrastructure as well as certain costs relating to internal use software. The estimated useful life of costs capitalized is evaluated for each specific project. Capitalized internal use software and website development costs are reviewed for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. An impairment loss shall be recognized only if the carrying amount of the asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The Company capitalized internal-use software and website development costs of $0.5 million and $0.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Income Taxes The Companys deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized based on temporary differences between the financial reporting and income tax bases of assets and liabilities using statutory rates. If required, a valuation allowance is established against net deferred tax assets if, based upon available evidence, it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The Company recognizes any interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. Stock-Based Compensation At March 31, 2010, the Company had two stock-based employee compensation plans which are more fully described in Note 11. Stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized in the statement of operations using the straight line method over the vesting period of the award or using the accelerated method if the award is contingent upon performance goals. The Company uses the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to determine the fair-value of stock-based awards. Net Loss Per Share Basic earnings per share is computed based on the weighted average number of common shares and vested restricted stock awards outstanding during the period. Because the holders of unvested restricted stock awards do not have nonforfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents, the Company does not consider these awards to be participating securities that should be included in its computation of earnings per share under the two-class method. Diluted earnings per share is computed using the weighted average number of common shares and vested restricted stock awards outstanding during the period, plus the dilutive effect of potential future issuances of common stock relating to stock option programs and other potentially dilutive securities using the treasury stock method. In calculating diluted earnings per share, the dilutive effect of stock options is computed using the average market price for the respective period. In addition, the assumed proceeds under the treasury stock method include the average unrecognized compensation expense and assumed tax benefit of stock options that are in-the-money. This results in the assumed buyback of additional shares, thereby reducing the dilutive impact of stock options. 8 Recent Accounting Pronouncements In September 2009, the FASB ratified Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2009-13 (ASU 2009-13) (previously Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 08-1, Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables (EITF 08-1)), which updates the existing multiple-element revenue arrangements guidance currently included in Accounting Standards Codification 605-25. ASU 2009-13 will require companies to allocate the overall consideration to each deliverable by using a best estimate of the selling price of individual deliverables in the arrangement in the absence of vendor-specific objective evidence or other third-party evidence of the selling price. ASU 2009-13 will be effective prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal y ears beginning on or after June 15, 2010 and early adoption will be permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of the adoption of ASU 2009-13 on its consolidated results of operations and financial condition and the Companys planned date of adoption. In October 2009, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2009-14, "Certain Revenue Arrangements That Include Software Elements" ("ASU No. 2009-14"). ASU No. 2009-14 amends guidance included within ASC Topic 985-605 to exclude tangible products containing software components and non-software components that function together to deliver the products essential functionality. Entities that sell joint hardware and software products that meet this scope exception will be required to follow the guidance of ASU No. 2009-13. ASU No. 2009-14 is effective prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010. Early adoption and retrospectiv e application are also permitted. The company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting the provisions of ASU No. 2009-14. In December 2009, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2009-17, Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest Entities (ASU 2009-17). ASU 2009-17 changes how a reporting entity determines when an entity that is insufficiently capitalized or is not controlled through voting (or similar rights) should be consolidated. The determination of whether a reporting entity is required to consolidate another entity is based on, among other things, the other entitys purpose and design and the reporting entitys ability to direct the activities of the other entity that most significantly impact the other entitys economic performance. The new standard requires a number of new disclosures, including additional disclosures about the re porting entitys involvement with variable interest entities and any significant changes in risk exposure due to that involvement. A reporting entity is required to disclose how its involvement with a variable interest entity affects the reporting entitys financial statements. ASU 2009-17 is effective at the start of a reporting entitys first fiscal year beginning after November 15, 2009, or January 1, 2010, for a calendar year-end entity. Based on the Companys evaluation of ASU 2009-17, the adoption of this statement did not impact the Companys consolidated financial statements. Accounting Standards Update 2009-05, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (Topic 820)Measuring Liabilities at Fair Value allows entities determining the fair value of a liability to use the perspective of an investor that holds the related obligation as an asset. The ASU is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after August 27, 2009 , and applies to all fair-value measurements of liabilities required by GAAP. Additionally, effective January 1, 2010, we adopted ASU 2010-06 Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements , which requires additional disclosures regarding assets and liabilities measured at fair value. Th e adoption of these requirements did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In February 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-09, which amends the Subsequent Events Topic of the ASC to eliminate the requirement for public companies to disclose the date through which subsequent events have been evaluated. The Company will continue to evaluate subsequent events through the date of the issuance of the financial statements; however, consistent with the guidance, this date will no longer be disclosed. This change did not affect the Companys consolidated financial statements. 3. Fair Value Measurements The Company measures certain financial assets at fair value on a recurring basis, including cash equivalents, and short and long-term investments. The fair value of these financial assets was determined based on three levels of input as follows: 9 Level 1. Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities; Level 2. Observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets; and Level 3. Unobservable inputs. The fair value hierarchy of the Companys financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value and measured on a recurring basis is as follows: Fair Value Measurements at Reporting Date Using March 31, 2010 Quoted Prices in Active Markets for Identical Assets (Level 1) Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level 2) Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3) (Unaudited) Money market funds(1) $ 11,979 $ 11,979 $ $ Short-term investments 56,291 56,291 Long-term investments 7,810 7,810 Total $ 76,080 $ 11,979 $ 64,101 $ Fair Value Measurements at Reporting Date Using December 31, 2009 Quoted Prices in Active Markets for Identical Assets (Level 1) Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level 2) Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3) (Unaudited) Money market funds(1) $ 6,271 $ 6,271 $ $ Short-term investments 50,496 50,496 Long-term investments 11,177 11,177 Total $ 67,944 $ 6,271 $ 61,673 $ (1) Included in cash equivalents on the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. 4. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Investments Cash and cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less at date of purchase. Cash equivalents are carried at cost, which approximates their fair market value. Cash and cash equivalents consisted of the following: March 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 (Unaudited) Cash $ 5,512 $ 14,613 Money market funds 11,979 6,271 Total cash and cash equivalents $ 17,491 $ 20,884 The Companys short and long-term investments are accounted for as available for sale securities. These investments are recorded at fair value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive loss, a component of stockholders equity, net of tax. The unrealized (loss) gain, net of taxes, was ($41) and $151 for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Realized gains and losses on the sale of these investments are determined using the specific identification method. There were no realized gains during the quarter ended March 31, 2010. Realized gains totaled $9 in the three months ended March 31, 2009. 10 Short and long-term investments consisted of the following: March 31, 2010 Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Estimated Fair Value Short and long-term investments: Government agency bonds $ 8,123 $ 2 $ (3 ) $ 8,122 Municipal bonds 56,038 12 (71 ) 55,979 Total short and long-term investments $ 64,161 $ 14 $ (74 ) $ 64,101 December 31, 2009 Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Estimated Fair Value Short and long-term investments: Government agency bonds $ 8,168 $ - $ (9 ) $ 8,159 Municipal bonds 53,495 42 (23 ) $ 53, 514 Total short and long-term investments $ 61,663 $ 42 $ (23 ) $ 61,673 The Company had 28 debt securities in an unrealized loss position at March 31, 2010. All of these securities have been in such a position for less than 12 months. The unrealized loss on those securities was approximately $0.1 million and the fair value was $38.1 million. As of March 31, 2010, the Company does not consider these investments to be other-than temporarily impaired. Municipal bonds have contractual maturity dates within eighteen months. All income generated from these investments is recorded as interest income. 5. Acquisitions On March 1, 2010, the Company acquired ebizQ.net and certain other assets from IT Quadrant, Inc. for $0.5 million in cash plus a potential future earnout valued at $0.6 million. ebizQ.net is a leading website for business and information technology (IT) decision makers focused on Business Process Management (BPM) and Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA). ebizQ.net is an online community with more than 100,000 members that provides original editorial and independent content from leading industry analysts and experts via blogs, webinars, podcasts, white papers, and virtual events. The addition of ebizQ.net to the TechTarget network of technology websites complements the Company's existing web properties, providing a one-stop shop for IT and Line of Business p rofessionals researching new products and technologies around these disciplines and marketers trying to reach them. In connection with this acquisition, the Company purchased $70 of tangible assets, recorded $335 of goodwill and $660 of intangible assets related to customer relationships, a member database, a non-compete agreement and trade names with estimated useful lives ranging from three to six years. The estimated fair value of $660 of acquired intangible assets is assigned as follows: Useful Life Estimated Fair Value Customer relationship intangible asset 72 months $ 280 Member database 60 months 240 Non-compete agreement intangible asset 36 months 80 Trade name intangible asset 60 months 60 Total intangible assets $ 660 The Company engaged a third party valuation specialist to assist management in determining the fair value of the earnout and the intangible assets of IT Quadrant, Inc. The potential future earnout was valued using a probability approach under which the earnout was calculated based on the weighted probability of several forecasted outcomes. The estimated earnout was then discounted using a rate of 5.75%. To value the customer relationship assets, an income approach was used, specifically a variation of the discounted cash-flow method known as the multi-period excess earnings method. The projected net cash flows for IT Quadrant, Inc. were tax affected using an effective rate of 41% and then discounted using a discount rate of 23% to calculate the value of the customer relationship asset. Additionally, the pre sent value of the sum of projected tax benefits was added to arrive at the total fair value of the customer relationship asset. To value the member database, a replacement cost approach was used, specifically a calculation of costs to acquire new members based on TechTargets cost history over the past two years divided by new members acquired. The calculated cost per new member acquired was used to calculate the cost to acquire the members in the IT Quadrant, Inc. member database. Additionally, the present value of the sum of projected tax benefits was added to the calculated replacement cost to calculate the total fair value of the member database asset. To value the non-compete agreement a comparative business valuation method was used. Based on a non-compete term of 36 months, management projected net cash flows for the Company with and without the non-compete agreement in place. The present value of the sum of the difference between the net cash flows with and without the non - -compete agreement in place was calculated, based on a discount rate of 23%. To value the trade name intangible asset a relief from royalty method was used to estimate the pre-tax royalty savings to the Company related to the IT Quadrant, Inc. trade names. The projected net cash flows from the pre-tax royalty savings were tax affected using an effective rate of 41% and then discounted using a discount rate of 23% to calculate the value of the trade name intangible asset. 11 6. Intangible Assets Intangible assets subject to amortization as of March 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009 consist of the following: As of March 31, 2010 Estimated Useful Lives (Years) Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net (Unaudited) Customer, affiliate and advertiser relationship 1 9 $ 11,788 $ (6,101 ) $ 5,687 Developed websites, technology and patents 3 - 6 5,400 (2,625 ) 2,775 Trademark, trade name and domain name 1 - 7 2,273 (1,320 ) 953 Proprietary user information database and Internet traffic 3 - 5 4,990 (2,522 ) 2,468 Non-compete agreements 1 - 3 1,403 (1,199 ) 204 Total intangible assets $ 25,854 $ (13,767 ) $ 12,087 As of December 31, 2009 Estimated Useful Lives (Years) Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Customer, affiliate and advertiser relationships 1 - 9 $ 11,508 $ (5,619 ) $ 5,889 Developed websites, technology and patents 3 - 6 5,400 (2,400 ) 3,000 Trademark, trade name and domain name 1 - 7 2,179 (1,261 ) 918 Proprietary user information database and Internet traffic 3 - 5 4,750 (2,257 ) 2,493 Non-compete agreements 1 - 3 1,323 (1,095 ) 228 Total intangible assets $ 25,160 $ (12,632 ) $ 12,528 Intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives, which range from one to nine years, using methods of amortization that are expected to reflect the estimated pattern of economic use. The remaining amortization expense will be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 2.6 years. Amortization expense was $1.1 million and $1.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009 respectively. The Company expects amortization expense of intangible assets to be as follows: Years Ending December 31: Amortization Expense 2010 (April 1 December 31) $ 3,210 2011 3,358 2012 2,595 2013 1,121 2014 768 Thereafter 1,035 $ 12,087 12 7. Net Loss Per Common Share A reconciliation of the numerator and denominator used in the calculation of basic and diluted net loss per common share is as follows: For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2010 2009 (Unaudited) Numerator: Net loss $ (2,340 ) $ (2,308 ) Denominator: Basic: Weighted average shares of common stock outstanding 42,479,994 41,754,131 Diluted: Weighted average shares of common stock outstanding 42,479,994 41,754,131 Effect of potentially dilutive shares(1) Total weighted average shares of common stock outstanding 42,479,994 41,754,131 Net Loss Per Common Share: Basic and diluted net loss per common share $ (0.06 ) $ (0.06 ) (1) In calculating diluted earnings per share, shares related to outstanding stock options, unvested restricted stock awards and warrants were excluded for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009 because they were anti-dilutive. 8. Bank Term Loan Payable In August 2006, the Company entered into a credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) with a commercial bank, which included a $10.0 million term loan (the Term Loan) and a $20.0 million revolving credit facility (the Revolving Credit Facility). The Credit Agreement was amended in August 2007, in December 2008 and again in December 2009. The amendment in 2009 reduced the Revolving Credit Facility to $5.0 million. The Company paid off the remaining balance of this Term Loan in December 2009. The Revolving Credit Facility matures on August 30, 2011. Unless earlier payment is required by an event of default, all principal and unpaid interest will be due and payable on August 30, 2011. At the Companys option, the Revolving Credit Facility bears interest at either the Prime Rate less 1.00% or the LIBOR rate plus the applicable LIBOR margin. The applicable LIBOR margin is based on the ratio of total funded debt to EBITDA for the preceding four fiscal quarters. As of March 31, 2010, the applicable LIBOR margin was 1.25%. The Company is also required to pay an unused line fee on the daily unused amount of its Revolving Credit Facility at a per annum rate based on the ratio of total funded debt to EBITDA for the preceding four fiscal quarters. As of March 31, 2010, unused availability under the Revolving Credit Facility totaled $5.0 million and the per annum unused line fee rate was 0.20%. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement are collateralized by a security interest in substantially all assets of the Company. Covenants governing the Credit Agreement require the maintenance of certain financial ratios. At March 31, 2010 the Company was in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreement. 9. Commitments and Contingencies Operating Leases The Company conducts its operations in leased office facilities under various non-cancelable operating lease agreements that expire through March 2020. Future minimum lease payments under the Companys non-cancelable operating leases at March 31, 2010, net of minimum sublease rental payments of $0.2 million, are as follows: 13 Years Ending December 31: Minimum Lease Payments (Unaudited) 2010 (April 1 December 31) $ 679 2011 2,927 2012 3,440 2013 2,874 2014 2,890 Thereafter 15,623 $ 28,433 The Company has an irrevocable standby letter of credit outstanding in the aggregate amount of $1.5 million. This letter of credit supports the lease the Company entered into in 2009 for its new corporate headquarters. This letter of credit extends annually through February 28, 2020 unless notification of termination is received. Net Worth Tax Contingency In late March 2010, the Company received a letter from the Department of Revenue of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts (the MA DOR) requesting documentation demonstrating that TechTarget Securities Corporation (TSC), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, has been classified by the MA DOR as a Massachusetts security corporation. The Company is in the process of responding to the MA DORs request. However, in the event that the Company is unable to substantiate such classification, the MA DOR has indicated that it may require an adjustment to correct TSCs tax filings such that it will be treated as a Massachusetts business corporation for the applicable years. The tax benefits available to a Massachusetts security corporation are comprised of (i) lower income tax rate (1.32% vs. 9.5%) and (ii) exemption from the 0.26% excise tax on net worth. The Company is not currently recording an accrual related to a net worth loss contingency for this matter. However, in the event of an adverse outcome of this matter, the Company could incur additional net worth taxes related to the Massachusetts security corporation classification of up to a maximum possible loss of $0.3 million at March 31, 2010. With respect to the income tax loss contingency, the Company recorded additional state tax expense totaling $0.3 million during the three months ended March 31, 2010. Litigation From time to time and in the ordinary course of business, the Company may be subject to various claims, charges, and litigation. At March 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, the Company did not have any pending claims, charges, or litigation that it expects would have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 10. Comprehensive Loss Comprehensive loss includes all changes in equity during a period, except those resulting from investments by stockholders and distributions to stockholders. For the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009 the Companys comprehensive loss is as follows: For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2010 2009 (Unaudited) Net loss $ (2,340 ) $ (2,308 ) Other comprehensive loss: Change in fair value of cash flow hedge - 31 Unrealized (loss) gain on investments (net of tax effect of ($29) and $97, respectively) (41 ) 151 Unrealized (loss) gain on foreign currency exchange (14 ) 1 Total other comprehensive loss $ (2,395 ) $ (2,125 ) 14 11. Stock-Based Compensation Stock Option Plans In September 1999, the Company approved a stock option plan (the 1999 Plan) that provides for the issuance of up to 12,384,646 shares of common stock incentives. The 1999 Plan provides for the granting of incentive stock options (ISOs), nonqualified stock options (NSOs), and stock grants. These incentives may be offered to the Companys employees, officers, directors, consultants, and advisors, as defined. ISOs may be granted at no less than fair market value on the date of grant, as determined by the Companys Board of Directors (the Board) (no less than 110% of fair market value on the date of grant for 10% or greater stockholders), subject to limitations, as defined. Each option shall be exercisable at such times and subject to such terms as determined by the Board, generally four years, and shall expire within ten years of issuance. In April 2007, the Board approved the 2007 Stock Option and Incentive Plan (the 2007 Plan), which was approved by the stockholders and became effective upon the consummation of the Companys IPO in May 2007. Effective upon the consummation of the IPO, no further awards were made pursuant to the 1999 Plan, but any outstanding awards under the 1999 Plan will remain in effect and will continue to be subject to the terms of the 1999 Plan. The 2007 Plan allows the Company to grant ISOs, NSOs, stock appreciation rights, deferred stock awards, restricted stock and other awards. Under the 2007 Plan, stock options may not be granted at less than fair market value on the date of grant, and grants generally vest over a four year period. Stock options granted under the 2007 Plan expire no later than ten years after the grant date. The Company has reserved for issuance an aggregate of 2,911,667 shares of common stock under the 2007 Plan plus an additional annual increase to be added automatically on January 1 of each year, beginning on January 1, 2008, equal to the lesser of (a) 2% of the outstanding number of shares of common stock (on a fully-diluted basis) on the immediately preceding December 31 and (b) such lower number of shares as may be determined by our compensation committee. The number of shares available for issuance under the 2007 Plan is subject to adjustment in the event of a stock split, stock dividend or other change in capitalization. Generally, shares that are forfeited or canceled from awards under the 2007 Plan also will be available for future awards. In addition, shares subject to stock options returned to the 1999 Plan, as a result of their expiration, cancellation or termination, are automatically made available for issuance under the 2007 Plan. As of March 31, 2010 a total of 85 1,271 shares were available for grant under the 2007 Plan. Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation The Company uses the Black-Scholes option pricing model to calculate the grant-date fair value of an award. The Company calculated the fair values of the options granted using the following estimated weighted-average assumptions: Three Months Ended March 31, 2010 2009 (Unaudited) Expected volatility 78% 75% Expected term 6.25 years 6.25 years Risk-free interest rate 2.85% 2.21% Expected dividend yield 0.00% 0.00% Weighted-average grant date fair value per share $3.89 $1.58 As there was no public market for the Companys common stock prior to the Companys IPO in May 2007, and limited historical information on the volatility of its common stock since the date of the Companys IPO, the Company determined the volatility for options granted in the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009 based on an analysis of the historical volatility of the Companys stock and reported data for a peer group of companies that issued options with substantially similar terms. The expected volatility of options granted has been determined using a weighted average of the historical volatility of the Companys stock and the peer group of companies for a period equal to the expected life of the option. The expected life of options has been determined utilizing the simplifie d method. The risk-free interest rate is based on a zero coupon United States treasury instrument whose term is consistent with the expected life of the stock options. The Company has not paid and does not anticipate paying cash dividends on its shares of common stock; therefore, the expected dividend yield is assumed to be zero. The Company applied an estimated annual forfeiture rate based on its historical forfeiture experience of 2.00% in determining the expense recorded in the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009. 15 A summary of the stock option activity under the Companys stock option plan for the three months ended March 31, 2010 is presented below: Quarter-to-Date Activity Options Outstanding Weighted- Average Exercise Price Per Share Weighted- Average Remaining Contractual Term in Years Aggregate Intrinsic Value (Unaudited) Options outstanding at December 31, 2009 7,916,879 $6.40 Granted 20,000 5.57 Exercised (95,010 ) 2.26 Forfeited (12,916 ) 9.32 Cancelled (91,621 ) 8.71 Options outstanding at March 31, 2010 7,737,332 $6.42 6.3 $4,709 Options exercisable at March 31, 2010 5,581,989 $6.25 5.4 $4,445 Options vested or expected to vest at March 31, 2010(1) 7,629,894 $6.42 6.3 $4,695 (1) In addition to the vested options, the Company expects a portion of the unvested options to vest at some point in the future. Options expected to vest is calculated by applying an estimated forfeiture rate to the unvested options. During the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, the total intrinsic value of options exercised (i.e. the difference between the market price at exercise and the price paid by the employee to exercise the options) was $283 and $8, respectively, and the total amount of cash received from exercise of these options was $215 and $12, respectively. The total grant date fair value of stock options granted after January 1, 2006 that vested during the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009 was $1.5 million and $1.3 million, respectively. Unrecognized stock-based compensation expense of non-vested stock options of $9.4 million is expected to be recognized using the straight line method over a weighted-average period of 1.2 years. Restricted Stock Awards Restricted stock awards are valued at the market price of a share of the Companys common stock on the date of grant. A summary of the restricted stock award activity under the 2007 Stock Plan for the three months ended March 31, 2010 is presented below: Quarter-to-Date Activity Shares Weighted- Average Grant Date Fair Value Per Share Aggregate Intrinsic Value (Unaudited) Nonvested outstanding at December 31, 2009 2,216,900 $5.37 Granted 600,000 5.91 Vested (481,250 ) 4.00 Forfeited Nonvested outstanding at March 31, 2010 2,335,650 $5.80 $12,215 The total grant-date fair value of restricted stock awards that vested during the three months ended March 31, 2010 was $1.9 million. No restricted stock awards vested during the three months ended March 31, 2009. Unrecognized stock-based compensation expense of non-vested restricted stock awards of $9.2 million is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.3 years. 16 12. Stockholders Equity Warrants In connection with an acquisition in May 2000, the Company issued to the seller a warrant to purchase 40,625 shares of common stock at a price of $2.36 per share. The warrant is exercisable immediately and expires on May 10, 2010. At March 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, there were 1,269 shares of the Companys common stock reserved for the exercise of all warrants. Reserved Common Stock As of March 31, 2010, the Company has reserved common stock for the following: Number of Shares (Unaudited) Options outstanding and available for grant under stock option plans 11,290,066 Warrants 1,269 Total common stock reserved 11,291,335 13. Income Taxes In late March 2010, the Company received a letter from the Department of Revenue of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts (the MA DOR) requesting documentation demonstrating that TechTarget Securities Corporation (TSC), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, has been classified by the MA DOR as a Massachusetts security corporation. The Company is in the process of responding to the MA DORs request. However, in the event that the Company is unable to substantiate such classification, the MA DOR has indicated that it may require an adjustment to correct TSCs tax filings such that it will be treated as a Massachusetts business corporation for the applicable years. The tax benefits available to a Massachusetts security corporation are comprised of (i) lower income tax rate (1.32% vs. 9.5%) and (ii) exemption from the 0.26% excise tax on net worth. The Company recorded an adjustment totaling $261,000 related to the uncertain tax position during the three months ended March 31, 2010. The Company may from time to time be assessed interest or penalties by major tax jurisdictions. The Company recognizes interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in income tax expense. The Company recognized interest and penalties totaling $5 in the three months ended March 31, 2009. The Company did not recognize any interest and penalties in the three months ended March 31, 2010. Tax years 2006 through 2009 are subject to examination by the federal and state taxing authorities. The Internal Revenue Service completed an audit of our 2006 tax return without identifying any material adjustments. There are no other income tax examinations currently in process. The Companys effective tax rate was 7% and 19% for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 14. Segment Information The Company views its operations and manages its business as one operating segment based on factors such as how the Company manages its operations and how its chief operating decision making group, which consists of the Companys chief executive officer, president and executive vice president, reviews results and makes decisions on how to allocate resources and assess performance. 17 Geographic Data Net sales to unaffiliated customers by geographic area were as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2010 2009 (Unaudited) United States and Canada $ 19,881 $ 17,756 International 1,162 716 Total $ 21,043 $ 18,472 15. Subsequent Events On April 12, 2010, the Company acquired certain assets of Powell Media LLC for $1.2 million in cash plus a future earn out potential payment. Powell Media LLC operates the BeyeNETWORK, a group of online technology sites that provide news, expert information and exclusive resources on the business information management lifecycle, including business intelligence (BI) best practices, business analytics, data integration, and data governance. All of the sites content is written by industry experts who share their experiences and research in a collection of articles, podcasts, and blogs focused on specific vertical industries. Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes and the other financial information included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. In this discussion and analysis, dollar, share and per share amounts are not rounded to thousands unless otherwise indicated. This discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those discussed below and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, particularly under the heading Risk Factors. Overview Background We are a leading provider of specialized online content that brings together buyers and sellers of corporate IT products. We sell customized marketing programs that enable IT vendors to reach corporate IT decision makers who are actively researching specific IT purchases. Our integrated content platform consists of a network of more than 80 websites that we complement with targeted in-person events. Throughout the critical stages of the purchase decision process, these content offerings meet IT professionals needs for expert, peer and IT vendor information, and provide a platform on which IT vendors can launch targeted marketing campaigns that generate measurable, high ROI. As IT professionals have become increasingly specialized, they have come to rely on our sector-specific websites for purchasing decision support. Our content enables IT professionals to navigate the complex and rapidly changing IT landscape where purchasing decisions can have significant financial and operational consequences. Based upon the logical clustering of our users respective job resp onsibilities and the marketing focus of the products that our customers are advertising, we currently categorize our content offerings across ten distinct media groups: Application Development; Channel; CIO/IT Strategy; Data Center and Virtualization Technologies; Enterprise Applications; Networking; Security; Storage; TechnologyGuide.com; and Vertical Software. 18 On March 1, 2010, we acquired ebizQ.net and certain other assets from IT Quadrant, Inc. for $0.5 million in cash plus a potential future earnout valued at $0.6 million. ebizQ.net is a leading website for business and information technology (IT) decision makers focused on Business Process Management (BPM) and Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA). ebizQ.net is an online community with more than 100,000 members that provides original editorial and independent content from leading industry analysts and experts via blogs, webinars, podcasts, white papers, and virtual events. The addition of ebizQ.net to the TechTarget network of technology websites complements the Company's existing web properties, providing a one-stop shop for IT and Line of Business professionals researching new products and technologi es around these disciplines and marketers trying to reach them. Sources of Revenues We sell advertising programs to IT vendors targeting a specific audience within a particular IT sector or sub-sector. We maintain multiple points of contact with our customers to provide support throughout their organizations and the sales cycle. As a result, our customers often run multiple advertising programs with us in order to reach discrete portions of our targeted audience. There are multiple factors that can impact our customers advertising objectives and spending with us, including but not limited to, product launches, increases or decreases to their advertising budgets, the timing of key industry marketing events, responses to competitor activities and efforts to address specific marketing objectives such as creating brand awareness or generating sales leads. Our services are generally delivered under short-term contracts that run for the length of a given advertising program, typically less than 6 months in length. We generate substantially all of our revenues from the sale of targeted advertising campaigns that we deliver via our network of websites and in-person events. Online. The majority of our revenue is derived from the delivery of our online offerings from our media groups. Online revenue represented approximately 88% and 88% of total revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We expect the majority of our revenues to be derived through the delivery of online offerings for the foreseeable future. As a result of our customers advertising objectives and preferences, the specific allocation of online advertising offerings sold and delivered by us, on a period by period basis, can fluctuate. Through our websites we sell a variety of online media offerings to connect IT vendors to IT professionals. Our lead generation offerings allow IT vendors to capture qualified sales leads from the distribution and promotion of content to our audience of IT professionals. Our branding offerings provide IT vendors exposure to targeted audiences of IT professionals actively researching information related to their products and services. Our branding offerings include banners and e-newsletters. Banner advertising can be purchased on specific websites within our network. We also offer the ability to advertise in e-newsletters focused on key site sub-topics across our portfolio of websites. These offerings give IT vendors the ability to increase their brand awareness to highly specialized IT sectors. Our lead generation offerings include the following: White Papers. White papers are technical documents created by IT vendors to describe business or technical problems that are addressed by the vendors products or services. IT vendors pay us to have their white papers distributed to our users and receive targeted promotions on our relevant websites. Prior to viewing white papers, our registered members and visitors supply their corporate contact and qualification information and agree to receive further information from the vendor. The corporate contact and other qualification information for these leads are supplied to the vendor in real time through our proprietary lead management software. Webcasts, Podcasts and Videocasts. IT vendors pay us to sponsor and host webcasts, podcasts and videocasts that bring informational sessions directly to attendees desktops and, in the case of podcasts, directly to their mobile devices. As is the case with white papers, our users supply their corporate contact and qualification information to the webcast, podcast or videocast sponsor when they view or download the content. Sponsorship includes access to the registrant information and visibility before, during and after the event. Software Package Comparisons. Through our 2020software.com website, IT vendors pay us to post information and specifications about their software packages, typically organized by application category. Users can request further information, which may include downloadable trial software from multiple software providers in sectors such as customer relationship management, or CRM, accounting, and business analytics. IT vendors, in turn, receive qualified leads based upon the users who request their information. 19 Promotional E-mails. IT vendors pay us to further target the promotion of their white papers, webcasts, videocasts, podcasts or downloadable trial software by including their content in our periodic e-mail updates to registered users of our websites. Users who have voluntarily registered on our websites receive an e-mail update from us when vendor content directly related to their interests is listed on our sites. List Rentals. We also offer IT vendors the ability to message relevant registered members on topics related to their interests. IT vendors can rent our e-mail and postal lists of registered members using specific criteria such as company size, geography or job title. Contextual Advertising. Our contextual advertising programs associate IT vendor white papers, webcasts, podcasts or other content on a particular topic with our related sector-specific content. IT vendors have the option to purchase exclusive sponsorship of content related to their product or category. Third Party Revenue Sharing Arrangements. We have arrangements with certain third parties, including for the licensing of our online content, for the renting of our database of opted-in email subscribers and for which advertising from customers of certain third parties is made available to our website visitors. In each of these arrangements we are paid a share of the resulting revenue. Events. Events revenue represented approximately 12% and 12% of total revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Most of our media groups operate revenue generating events. The majority of our events are free to IT professionals and are sponsored by IT vendors. Attendees are pre-screened based on event-specific criteria such as sector-specific budget size, company size, or job title. We offer three types of events: multi-day conferences, single-day seminars and custom events. Multi-day conferences provide independent expert content for our attendees and allow vendors to purchase exhibit space and other sponsorship offerings that enable interaction with the attendees. We also hold single-day seminars on various topic s in major cities. These seminars provide independent content on key sub-topics in the sectors we serve, are free to qualified attendees, and offer multiple vendors the ability to interact with specific, targeted audiences actively focused on buying decisions. Our custom events differ from our conferences and seminars in that they are exclusively sponsored by a single IT vendor, and the content is driven primarily by the sole sponsor. Cost of Revenues, Operating Expenses and Other Expenses consist of cost of revenues, selling and marketing, product development, general and administrative, depreciation, and amortization expenses. Personnel-related costs are a significant component of most of these expense categories. Cost of Online Revenue. Cost of online revenue consists primarily of: salaries and related personnel costs; member acquisition expenses (primarily keyword purchases from leading Internet search sites); freelance writer expenses; website hosting costs; vendor expenses associated with the delivery of webcast, podcast, videocast and list rental offerings; stock-based compensation expenses; and related overhead. Cost of Events Revenue. Cost of events revenue consists primarily of: facility expenses, including food and beverages for the event attendees; salaries and related personnel costs; event speaker expenses; stock-based compensation expenses; and related overhead. Selling and Marketing. Selling and marketing expense consists primarily of: salaries and related personnel costs; sales commissions; travel, lodging and other out-of-pocket expenses; stock-based compensation expenses; and related overhead. Sales commissions are recorded as expense when earned by the employee. Product Development. Product development includes the creation and maintenance of our network of websites, advertiser offerings and technical infrastructure. Product development expense consists primarily of salaries and related personnel costs; stock-based compensation expenses; and related overhead. General and Administrative. General and administrative expense consists primarily of: salaries and related personnel costs; facilities expenses; accounting, legal and other professional fees; stock-based compensation expenses; and related overhead. General and administrative expense may continue to increase as a percentage of total revenue for the foreseeable future as we invest in infrastructure to support continued growth and incur additional expenses related to being a publicly traded company, including increased audit and legal fees, costs of compliance with securities and other regulations, investor relations expense, and insurance premiums. 20 Depreciation. Depreciation expense consists of the depreciation of our property and equipment. Depreciation of property and equipment is calculated using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives ranging from three to five years. Amortization of Intangible Assets. Amortization of intangible assets expense consists of the amortization of intangible assets recorded in connection with our acquisitions. Separable intangible assets that are not deemed to have an indefinite life are amortized over their estimated useful lives, which range from one to nine years, using methods that are expected to reflect the estimated pattern of economic use. Interest Income (Expense), Net. Interest income (expense) net consists primarily of interest income earned on cash and cash equivalent balances less interest expense incurred on bank term loan balances. We historically have invested our cash in money market accounts, municipal bonds and auction rate securities. Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates The discussion of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue, long-lived assets, the allowance for doubtful accounts, stock-based compensation, and income taxes. We based our estimates of the carrying value of certain assets and liabilities on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable. In ma ny cases, we could reasonably have used different accounting policies and estimates. In some cases, changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. See the notes to our financial statements for information about these critical accounting policies as well as a description of our other accounting policies. Revenue Recognition We generate substantially all of our revenue from the sale of targeted advertising campaigns that we deliver via our network of websites and events. In all cases, we recognize revenue only when the price is fixed or determinable, persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the service is performed and collectability of the resulting receivable is reasonably assured. Although each of our online media offerings can be sold separately, most of our online media sales involve multiple online offerings. Because objective evidence of fair value does not exist for all elements in our bundled advertising campaigns, no allocation can be made, and we recognize revenue on all services over the term of the arrangement. Event Sponsorships. We sell our events separately from our other service offerings, and recognize sponsorship revenue from events in the period the event occurs. The majority of our events are free to qualified attendees, however certain events are based on a paid attendee model. We recognize revenue for paid attendee events upon completion of the event and receipt of payment from the attendee. Amounts collected or billed prior to satisfying the above revenue recognition criteria are recorded as deferred revenue. Online Media. We recognize revenue from our specific online media offerings as follows when these items are sold separately: White Papers. We recognize white paper revenue ratably over the period in which the white paper is available on our websites. 21 Webcasts, Podcasts and Videocasts. We recognize webcast, podcast and videocast revenue ratably over the period in which the webcast, podcast or videocast is available on our websites. Software Package Comparisons. We recognize software package comparison revenue ratably over the period in which the software information is available on our websites. Promotional E-mails and E-newsletters. We recognize promotional e-mail revenue ratably over the period in which the related content asset is available on our websites because promotional emails do not have standalone value from the related content asset. We recognize e-newsletter revenue in the period in which the e-newsletter is sent. List Rentals. We recognize list rental revenue in the period in which the e-mail is sent to the list of registered members. Banners. We recognize banner revenue in the period in which the banner impressions occur. Third Party Revenue Sharing Arrangements. We recognize revenue from third party revenue sharing arrangements on a net basis in the period in which the services are performed. We offer customers the ability to purchase integrated ROI program offerings, which can include any of our online media offerings packaged together to address the particular customers specific advertising requirements. As part of these offerings, we will guarantee a minimum number of qualified sales leads to be delivered over the course of the advertising campaign. We sometimes extend the scheduled end date of advertising campaigns to satisfy lead guarantees or to fulfill all elements of the campaign based on delayed receipt of advertising media collateral from the customer. We estimate the revenue reserve necessary to properly defer revenue recognition for extended advertising campaigns. These estimates are based on the Companys experience in managing and fulfilling these integrated ROI program offerings. Historically, shortfalls in fulfilling lead guarantees before the scheduled completion date of an advertising campaign are satisfied within an average of 39 days of such scheduled completion date. These integrated ROI program offerings represented approximately 48% and 45% of online revenues, and 42% and 39% of total revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Amounts collected or billed prior to satisfying the above revenue recognition criteria are recorded as deferred revenue. Long-Lived Assets Our long-lived assets consist of property and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets. Goodwill and other intangible assets have arisen principally from our acquisitions. The amount assigned to intangible assets is subjective and based on our estimates of the future benefit of the intangible assets using accepted valuation techniques, such as discounted cash flow and replacement cost models. Our long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are amortized over their estimated useful lives, which we determined based on the consideration of several factors including the period of time the asset is expected to remain in service. Intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives, which range from one to nine years, using methods of amortization that are expected to reflect the estimated pattern of economic use. We evaluate the carrying value and remaining useful lives of long-lived assets, other than goodwill, whenever indicators of impairment are present. We evaluate the carrying value of goodwill annually, and whenever indicators of impairment are present. We use a discounted cash flow approach to determine the fair value of goodwill. Fair Value of Financial Instruments Financial instruments consist of cash and cash equivalents, short-term and long-term investments, accounts receivable, accounts payable, a term loan payable and an interest rate swap. The carrying value of these instruments approximates their estimated fair values. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We offset gross trade accounts receivable with an allowance for doubtful accounts. The allowance for doubtful accounts is our best estimate of the amount of probable credit losses in our existing accounts receivable. We review our allowance for doubtful accounts on a regular basis, and all past due balances are reviewed individually for collectability. Account balances are charged against the allowance after all means of collection have been exhausted and the potential for recovery is considered remote. Provisions for allowance for doubtful accounts are recorded in general and administrative expense. If our historical collection experience does not reflect our future ability to collect outstanding accounts receivables, our future provision for doubtful accounts could be materially affected. To date, we have not incurre d any write-offs of accounts receivable significantly different than the amounts reserved. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $0.5 million and $0.5 million at March 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively. 22 Stock-Based Compensation We measure stock-based compensation at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and recognize stock based compensation expense in the statement of operations using the straight line method over the vesting period of the award or using the accelerated method if the award is contingent upon performance goals. We use the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to determine the fair-value of stock-based awards. We calculated the fair values of the options granted using the following estimated weighted-average assumptions: Three Months Ended March 31, 2010 2009 (Unaudited) Expected volatility 78% 75% Expected term 6.25 years 6.25 years Risk-free interest rate 2.85% 2.21% Expected dividend yield 0.00% 0.00% Weighted-average grant date fair value per share $3.89 $1.58 As there was no public market for our common stock prior to our initial public offering in May 2007, and there has been limited historical information on the volatility of our common stock since the date of our initial public offering, we determined the volatility for options granted in the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009 based on an analysis of the historical volatility of our stock and reported data for a peer group of companies that issued options with substantially similar terms. The expected volatility of options granted has been determined using a weighted average of the historical volatility of our stock and the peer group of companies for a period equal to the expected life of the option. The risk-free interest rate is based on a zero coupon United States treasury instrument whose term is consis tent with the expected life of the stock options. We have not paid and do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our shares of common stock; therefore, the expected dividend yield is assumed to be zero. We applied an estimated annual forfeiture rate based on its historical forfeiture experience of 2.0% in determining the expense recorded in three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009. Internal Use Software and Website Development Costs We capitalize costs of materials, consultants and compensation and related expenses of employees who devote time to the development of internal-use software and website applications and infrastructure involving developing software to operate our websites. However, we expense as incurred website development costs for new features and functionalities since it is not probable that they will result in additional functionality until they are both developed and tested with confirmation that they are more effective than the current set of features and functionalities on our websites. Our judgment is required in determining the point at which various projects enter the states at which costs may be capitalized, in assessing the ongoing value of the capitalized costs and in determining the estimated useful lives over which the c osts are amortized, which is generally three years. To the extent that we change the manner in which we develop and test new features and functionalities related to our websites, assess the ongoing value of capitalized assets or determine the estimated useful lives over which the costs are amortized, the amount of website development costs we capitalize and amortize in future periods would be impacted. We review capitalized internal use software and website development costs for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. We would recognize an impairment loss only if the carrying amount of the asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. We capitalized internal-use software and website development costs of $0.5 million and $0.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and foreign jurisdictions, and we use estimates in determining our provision for income taxes. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on temporary differences between the financial reporting and income tax bases of assets and liabilities using statutory rates. 23 Our deferred tax assets are comprised primarily of net operating loss, or NOL, carryforwards. As of December 31, 2009, we had U.S. federal and state NOL carryforwards of approximately $7.0 million and $17.3 million, respectively, which may be used to offset future taxable income. The NOL carryforwards expire through 2027, and are subject to review and possible adjustment by the Internal Revenue Service. The Internal Revenue Code contains provisions that limit the NOL and tax credit carryforwards available to be used in any given year in the event of certain changes in the ownership interests of significant stockholders. The federal NOL carry forwards of $7.0 million available at December 31, 2009 were acquired from KnowledgeStorm and are subject to limitations on their use in future years. Net Loss Per Share We calculate basic earnings per share, or EPS, by dividing earnings available to common shareholders for the period by the weighted average number of common shares and vested restricted stock awards outstanding. Because the holders of unvested restricted stock awards do not have nonforfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents, we do not consider these awards to be participating securities that should be included in our computation of earnings per share under the two-class method. Diluted EPS is computed using the weighted-average number of common shares and vested restricted stock awards outstanding during the period, plus the dilutive effect of potential future issuances of common stock relating to stock option programs and other potentially dilutive securities using the treasury stock method. In calculatin g diluted EPS, the dilutive effect of stock options is computed using the average market price for the respective period. In addition, the assumed proceeds under the treasury stock method include the average unrecognized compensation expense and assumed tax benefit of stock options that are in-the-money. This results in the assumed buyback of additional shares, thereby reducing the dilutive impact of stock options. Results of Operations The following table sets forth our results of operations for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2010 2009 (Unaudited) ($ in thousands) Revenues: Online $ 18,561 88 % $ 16,282 88 % Events 2,482 12 2,190 12 Total revenues 21,043 100 18,472 100 Cost of revenues: Online 4,536 22 4,880 26 Events 864 4 1,081 6 Total cost of revenues 5,400 26 5,961 32 Gross profit 15,643 74 12,511 68 Operating expenses: Selling and marketing 8,913 42 7,516 41 Product development 2,185 11 2,081 11 General and administrative 5,495 27 3,919 21 Depreciation 525 2 536 3 Amortization of intangible assets 1,135 5 1,215 7 Total operating expenses 18,253 87 15,267 83 Operating loss (2,610 ) (13 ) (2,756 ) (15 ) Interest income (expense), net 107 1 (110 ) * Loss before benefit from income taxes (2,503 ) (12 ) (2,866 ) (15 ) Benefit from income taxes (163 ) (1 ) (558 ) (3 ) Net loss $ (2,340 ) (11 %) $ (2,308 ) (12 %) 24 Comparison of Three Months Ended March 31, 2010 and 2009 Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, 2010 2009 Increase (Decrease) Percent Change (Unaudited) Revenues: Online $ 18,561 $ 16,282 $ 2,279 14 % Events 2,482 2,190 292 13 Total revenues $ 21,043 $ 18,472 $ 2,571 14 % Online. The increase in online revenue was primarily attributable to a $1.5 million increase in revenue from lead generation offerings due primarily to an increase in white paper and webcast sales volumes. Additionally, branding revenue increased $1.2 million primarily due to an increase in banner sales volume compared to the first quarter of 2009. Events. The increase in events revenue was primarily attributable to an increase in seminar series and custom events revenue due to an increase in the number of events from 36 in the first quarter of 2009 to 51 events in the first quarter of 2010. In addition, conference attendee revenue increased in the first quarter of 2010 as compared to the first quarter of 2009. Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit Three Months Ended March 31, 2010 2009 Increase (Decrease) Percent Change (Unaudited) ($ in thousands) Cost of revenues: Online $ 4,536 $ 4,880 $ (344 ) (7 %) Events 864 1,081 (217 ) (20 ) Total cost of revenues $ 5,400 $ 5,961 $ (561 ) (9 %) Gross profit $ 15,643 $ 12,511 $ 3,132 25 % Gross profit percentage 74 % 68 % 6 % 9 % Cost of Online Revenue. The decrease in cost of online revenue was primarily attributable to a $0.3 million decrease in member acquisition expenses, primarily related to keyword purchases. Cost of Events Revenue. The decrease in cost of events revenue was primarily attributable to a $0.2 million decrease in salaries, benefits and travel costs due to a decrease in headcount compared to the first quarter of 2009. Gross Profit. Our gross profit is equal to the difference between our revenues and our cost of revenues for the period. Gross margin for the first quarter of 2010 was 74% as compared to 68% for the same period of 2009. The increase in online gross profit of $2.6 million is primarily attributable to the increase in online revenue as well as a decrease in member acquisition expenses as compared to the first quarter of 2009. The increase in events gross profit of $0.5 million was primarily as a result of an increase in higher margin custom events from 17 in first quarter of 2009 to 33 in the first quarter of 2010 as well as a reduction in costs related to reduced headcount as compared to the first quarter of 2009. Be cause the majority of our costs are labor-related and therefore fixed in nature, we expect our gross profit to fluctuate from period to period depending on the total revenues for the period as well as the relative contribution of online and events revenue to our total revenues. 25 Operating Expenses and Other Three Months Ended March 31, 2010 2009 Increase (Decrease) Percent Change (Unaudited) ($ in thousands) Operating expenses: Selling and marketing $ 8,913 $ 7,516 $ 1,397 19 % Product development 2,185 2,081 104 5 General and administrative 5,495 3,919 1,576 40 Depreciation 525 536 (11 ) (2 ) Amortization of intangible assets 1,135 1,215 (80 ) (7 ) Total operating expenses $ 18,253 $ 15,267 $ 2,986 20 % Interest income (expense), net $ 107 $ (110 ) $ 217 197 % Benefit from income taxes $ (163 ) $ (558 ) $ (395 ) (71 )% Selling and Marketing. The increase in selling and marketing expense was primarily attributable to a $1.3 million increase in stock-based compensation as well as a $0.8 million increase in payroll related costs partially attributable to the increase in revenue. General and Administrative. The increase in general and administrative expense was primarily attributable to an increase of $0.4 million in facilities related expenses primarily related to the move into a new corporate headquarters during the first quarter of 2010 and $0.3 million of professional fees related to the investigation completed during the first quarter of 2010. In addition, payroll related costs increased by $0.3 million in the first quarter of 2010 compared to the first quarter of 2009 primarily as a result of severance charges recorded during the quarter. Depreciation and Amortization of Intangible Assets. The decrease in depreciation and amortization of intangible assets expense was primarily attributable to certain intangible assets related to our acquisitions of TechnologyGuide.com in May 2007 and KnowledgeStorm in November 2007 becoming fully amortized during 2009. These decreases were partially offset during the quarter by depreciation on newly acquired fixed assets and intangible assets. Interest Income (Expense), Net. The increase in interest income (expense), net reflects an adjustment to interest income of ($0.3) million in the first quarter of 2009 related to interest income recognized in error in the fourth quarter of 2008 as well as a decrease in interest expense due to payment of our outstanding debt balance in the fourth quarter of 2009. Benefit from Income Taxes. Our effective tax rate was 7% for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 19% for the three months ended March 31, 2009. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to an adjustment of $0.3 million recorded during the three months ended March 31, 2010 related to an uncertain tax position. Seasonality The timing of our revenues is affected by seasonal factors. Our revenues are seasonal primarily as a result of the annual budget approval process of many of our customers and the historical decrease in advertising activity in July and August. Revenues are usually the lowest in the first quarter of each calendar year, increase during the second quarter, decrease during the third quarter, and increase again during the fourth quarter. Events revenue may vary depending on which quarters we produce the event, which may vary when compared to previous periods. The timing of revenues in relation to our expenses, much of which does not vary directly with revenue, has an impact on the cost of online revenue, selling and marketing, product development, and general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue in each cal endar quarter during the year. The majority of our expenses are personnel-related and include salaries, stock-based compensation, benefits and incentive-based compensation plan expenses. As a result, we have not experienced significant seasonal fluctuations in the timing of our expenses period to period. 26 Liquidity and Capital Resources Resources We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, our cash flow from operating activities and available bank borrowings will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months. Our future working capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the operations of our existing business, our potential strategic expansion internationally, future acquisitions we might undertake, and the expansion into complementary businesses. To the extent that our cash and cash equivalents and cash flow from operating activities are insufficient to fund our future activities, we may need to raise additional funds through bank credit arrangements or public or private equity or debt financings. We also may need to raise additional funds in the event we determine in the future to effect one or more additional acquisitions of businesses. In the event additional funding is required, we may not be able to obtain bank credit arrangements or affect an equity or debt financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. March 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 (Unaudited) ($ in thousands) Cash, cash equivalents and investments $ 81,592 $ 82,557 Accounts receivable, net $ 18,360 $ 16,623 Cash, Cash Equivalents and Investments Our cash, cash equivalents and investments at March 31, 2010 were held for working capital purposes and were invested primarily in money market accounts and municipal bonds. We do not enter into investments for trading or speculative purposes. Accounts Receivable, Net Our accounts receivable balance fluctuates from period to period, which affects our cash flow from operating activities. The fluctuations vary depending on the timing of our service delivery and billing activity, cash collections, and changes to our allowance for doubtful accounts. We use days sales outstanding, or DSO, calculated on a monthly basis, as a measurement of the quality and status of our receivables. We define DSO as average accounts receivable divided by total revenue for the applicable period, multiplied by the number of days in the applicable period. DSO was 73 days at March 31, 2010 and 67 days at December 31, 2010. Operating Activities Three Months Ended March 31, 2010 2009 (Unaudited) ($ in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 2,305 $ 2,538 Net cash used in investing activities(1) $ 2,881 $ 342 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 108 $ (738 ) (1) Cash used in investing activities is shown net of investment activity of $2.9 million and $2.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Cash provided by operating activities primarily consists of net loss adjusted for certain non-cash items including depreciation and amortization, the provision for bad debt, stock-based compensation, deferred income taxes, and the effect of changes in working capital and other activities. Cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2010 was $2.3 million compared to $2.5 million in the three months ended March 31, 2009. The decrease in cash provided by operations in 2010 was a result of net loss adjusted for non-cash related items of $3.0 million. Significant components of the net loss adjusted for non-cash related items were stock based compensation of $3.4 million and depreciation and amortization of $1.7 million which offset the net loss of $2.3 million. Cash provid ed by net loss adjusted for non-cash related items was partially offset by changes in assets and liabilities which included an increase in accounts receivable of $1.8 million during the first quarter of 2010 and an increase in accrued expenses and other current liabilities of $1.4 million in the first quarter of 2010. 27 Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities in the three months ended March 31, 2010, net of investment activity, was $2.4 million for the purchase of property and equipment, primarily leasehold improvements related to our new corporate headquarters which we occupied in the first quarter of 2010, and $0.5 million for the purchase of certain tangible and intangible assets from IT Quadrant, Inc. Cash used in investing activities in the three months ended March 31, 2009, net of investment activity, was $0.3 million for the purchase of property and equipment. Equity Financing Activities We received proceeds from the exercise of stock options in the amounts of $0.2 million and $0.01 million in the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Term Loan and Credit Facility Borrowings In August 2006, we entered into a credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) with a commercial bank, which included a $10.0 million term loan (the Term Loan) and a $20.0 million revolving credit facility (the Revolving Credit Facility). The Credit Agreement was amended in August 2007, in December 2008 and again in December 2009. The amendment in 2009 reduced the Revolving Credit Facility to $5.0 million. We paid off the remaining balance of this Term Loan in December 2009. The Revolving Credit Facility matures on August 30, 2011. Unless earlier payment is required by an event of default, all principal and unpaid interest will be due and payable on August 30, 2011. At our option, the Revolving Credit Facility bears interest at either the Prime Rate less 1.00% or the LIBOR rate plus the applicable LIBOR margin. The applicable LIBOR margin is based on the ratio of total funded debt to EBITDA for the preceding four fiscal quarters. As of March 31, 2010, the applicable LIBOR margin was 1.25%. We are also required to pay an unused line fee on the daily unused amount of its Revolving Credit Facility at a per annum rate based on the ratio of total funded debt to EBITDA for the preceding four fiscal quarters. As of March 31, 2010, unused availability under the Revolving Credit Facility totaled $5.0 million and the per annum unused line fee rate was 0.20%. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement are collateralized by a security interest in substantially all of our assets. Covenants governing the Credit Agreement require the maintenance of certain financial ratios. At March 31, 2010 we are in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreement. Capital Expenditures We have made capital expenditures primarily for computer equipment and related software needed to host our websites, internal-use software development costs, as well as for leasehold improvements and other general purposes to support our growth. Our capital expenditures totaled $2.4 million and $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. A majority of our capital expenditures in the first quarter of 2010 were leasehold improvements for our new corporate headquarters which we occupied in March of 2010. We are not currently party to any purchase contracts related to future capital expenditures. Contractual Obligations and Commitments As of March 31, 2010, our principal commitments consist of obligations under leases for office space. The offices are leased under noncancelable operating lease agreements that expire through March 2020. The following table sets forth our commitments to settle contractual obligations in cash as of March 31, 2010: Payments Due By Period Total Less than 1 Year 1 - 3 Years 3 - 5 Years More than 5 Years (Unaudited) ($ in thousands) Operating leases(1) $ 28,431 $ 1,081 $ 6,725 $ 5,729 $ 14,896 (1) Operating lease obligations are net of minimum sublease payments of $0.2 million due under a sublease agreement that expires in November 2010. 28 At March 31, 2010, we had an irrevocable standby letter of credit outstanding in the aggregate amount of $1.5 million. This letter of credit supports the lease we entered into in 2009 for our new corporate headquarters. This letter of credit extends annually through February 28, 2020 unless notification of termination is received. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for recent accounting pronouncements that could have an effect on us.