Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in this report and the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to revenue, long-lived assets, the allowance for doubtful accounts, stock-based compensation, and income taxes. Estimates of the carrying value of certain assets and liabilities are based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that the Company believes to be reasonable. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Revenue Recognition The Company generates substantially all of its revenue from the sale of targeted advertising campaigns which are delivered via its network of websites and events. Revenue is recognized only when the price is fixed or determinable, persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the service is performed and collectability of the resulting receivable is reasonably assured. The majority of the Companys online media sales involve multiple product offerings, which are described in more detail below. Because neither vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value nor third party evidence of selling price exists for all elements in the Companys bundled product offerings, the Company uses an estimated selling price which represents managements best estimate of the stand-alone selling price of deliverables for each deliverable in an arrangement. The Company establishes best estimates considering multiple factors including, but not limited to, class of client, size of transaction, available media inventory, pricing strategies and market conditions. The Company believes the use of the best estimate of selling price allows revenue recognition in a manner consistent with the underlying economics of the transaction. The Company uses the relative selling price method to allocate consideration at the inception of the arrangement to each deliverable in a multiple element arrangement. The relative selling price method allocates any discount in the arrangement proportionately to each deliverable on the basis of the deliverables best estimated selling price. Revenue is then recognized as delivery occurs. The Company evaluates all deliverables of an arrangement at inception and each time an item is delivered, to determine whether they represent separate units of accounting. Based on this evaluation, the arrangement consideration is measured and allocated to each of these elements. Event Sponsorships. Revenue from vendor-sponsored events, whether sponsored exclusively by a single vendor or in a multi-vendor sponsored event, is recognized upon completion of the event in the period the event occurs. The majority of the Companys events are free to qualified attendees; however, certain events are based on a paid attendee model. The Company recognizes revenue for paid attendee events upon completion of the event. 7 Online Media. Revenue for lead generation campaigns is recognized as follows: Beginning in the period ending March 31, 2012, the Companys lead generation campaigns all offer the Activity Intelligence Dashboard. Accordingly, in order to manage the lead generation component, the Company has changed its operational approach and the manner in which it sells its products. Instead of selling individual elements, it sells various lead generation campaigns with the Dashboard. Revenue is recognized ratably over the duration of the campaigns. As part of these offerings, the Company will guarantee a minimum number of qualified leads to be delivered over the course of the advertising campaign. The Company determines the content necessary to achieve performance guarantees. Scheduled end dates of advertising campaigns sometimes need to be extended to satisfy lead guarantees. In 2011, revenue for elements of lead generation campaigns was recognized as follows: White Papers. White paper revenue was recognized ratably over the period in which the white paper was available on the Companys websites. Webcasts, Podcasts, Videocasts and Virtual Trade Shows. Webcast, podcast, videocast, virtual trade show and similar content revenue was recognized ratably over the period in which the webcast, podcast, videocast or virtual trade show was available on the Companys websites. As part of these offerings, the Company will guarantee a minimum number of qualified leads to be delivered over the course of the advertising campaign. Scheduled end dates of advertising campaigns sometimes need to be extended to satisfy lead guarantees or fulfill all elements of the advertising campaign based on delayed receipts of advertising media collateral from the customer. Revenue for other online media offerings is recognized as follows for both 2011 and the period ending March 31, 2012: Custom Content Creation . Custom content revenue is recognized when the creation is completed and delivered to the customer. Content Sponsorships. Content sponsorship revenue is recognized ratably over the period in which the related content vehicle is available on the Companys websites. List Rentals. List rental revenue is recognized in the period in which the list is sent to our customers. Banners. Banner revenue is recognized in the period in which the banner impressions or clicks occur. Third Party Revenue Sharing Arrangements. Revenue from third party revenue sharing arrangements is recognized on a net basis in the period in which the services are performed. For certain third party agreements where the Company is the primary obligor, revenue is recognized on a gross basis in the period in which the services are performed. The Company recognizes revenue from cost per lead advertising in the period during which the leads are delivered to our customers. Amounts collected or billed prior to satisfying the above revenue recognition criteria are recorded as deferred revenue. Fair Value of Financial Instruments Financial instruments consist of cash and cash equivalents, short and long-term investments, accounts receivable and accounts payable. Due to their short-term nature and liquidity, the carrying value of these instruments approximates their estimated fair values. Long-lived Assets Long-lived assets consist primarily of property and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets. The Company reviews long-lived assets, including property and equipment and intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Conditions that would trigger an impairment assessment include, but are not limited to, a significant adverse change in legal factors or business climate that could affect the value of an asset or an adverse action or a significant decrease in the market price. A specifically identified intangible asset must be recorded as a separate asset from goodwill if either of the following two criteria is met: (1) the intangible asset acquired arises from contractual or other legal rights; or (2) the intangible asset is separable. Accordingly, intangible assets consist of specifically identified intangible assets. Goodwill is the excess of any purchase price over the estimated fair market value of net tangible and intangible assets acquired. 8 Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized but are reviewed annually for impairment or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. Separable intangible assets that are not deemed to have an indefinite life are amortized over their estimated useful lives, which range from one to nine years, using methods of amortization that are expected to reflect the estimated pattern of economic use, and are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances suggest that the assets may not be recoverable. The Company performs its annual test of impairment of goodwill as of December 31st of each year, and whenever events or changes in circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Based on this evaluation, the Company believes that, as of each of the balance sheet dates presented, none of the Companys goodwill or other long-lived assets were impaired. The Company did not have any intangible assets with indefinite lives as of March 31, 2012 or December 31, 2011. Internal-Use Software and Website Development Costs The Company capitalizes costs incurred during the development of its website applications and infrastructure as well as certain costs relating to internal-use software. The estimated useful life of costs capitalized is evaluated for each specific project. Capitalized internal-use software and website development costs are reviewed for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. An impairment loss would be recognized only if the carrying amount of the asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The Company capitalized internal-use software and website development costs of $0.9 million and $0.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Income Taxes The Companys deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized based on temporary differences between the financial reporting and income tax bases of assets and liabilities using statutory rates. A valuation allowance is established against net deferred tax assets if, based upon available evidence, it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The Company records a liability for unrecognized tax benefits resulting from uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return using a more likely than not threshold as required by the provisions of ASC 740-10, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes . The Company recognizes any interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. Stock-Based Compensation The Company has two stock-based employee compensation plans which are more fully described in Note 10. Stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized in the Statement of Operations using the straight-line method over the vesting period of the award or using the accelerated method if the award is contingent upon performance goals. The Company uses the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to determine the fair value of stock option awards. Net Income (Loss) Per Share Basic earnings per share is computed based on the weighted average number of common shares and vested restricted stock awards outstanding during the period. Because the holders of unvested restricted stock awards do not have nonforfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents, the Company does not consider these awards to be participating securities that should be included in its computation of earnings per share under the two-class method. Diluted earnings per share is computed using the weighted average number of common shares and vested restricted stock awards outstanding during the period, plus the dilutive effect of potential future issuances of common stock relating to stock option programs and other potentially dilutive securities using the treasury stock method. In calculating diluted earnings per share, the dilutive effect of stock options and restricted stock awards is computed using the average market price for the respective period. In addition, the assumed proceeds under the treasury stock method include the average unrecognized compensation expense and assumed tax benefit of stock options and restricted stock awards that are in-the-money. This results in the assumed buyback of additional shares, thereby reducing the dilutive impact of stock options and restricted stock awards. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-04, Fair Value Measurement: Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRS ( ASU 2011-04 ) , which provides common requirements for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value measurements in accordance with GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). ASU 2011-04 changes certain fair value measurement principles, clarifies the application of existing fair value measurement and expands ASC 820 disclosure requirements, particularly for Level 3 fair value measurements. ASU 2011-04 is effective during interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011. The adoption of this standard in the first quarter of 2012 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. 9 In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-05, Presentation of Comprehensive Income, which requires entities to present reclassification adjustments included in other comprehensive income on the face of the financial statements and allows entities to present the total of comprehensive income, the components of net income and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. It also eliminates the option for entities to present the components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in stockholders equity. For public companies, ASU 2011-05 is effective for fiscal years (and interim periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2011, with earlier adoption permitted. In December 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-12, Topic 220 Comprehensive Income (ASU 2011-12), which indefinitely deferred certain provisions of ASU 2011-05, including the requirement to present reclassification adjustments out of accumulated other comprehensive income by component in both the statement in which net income is presented and the statement in which other comprehensive income is presented. This amendment is effective for both annual and interim financial statements beginning after December 15, 2011. Although the new guidance changes the presentation of comprehensive income, there are no changes to the components that are recognized in net income or other comprehensive income under existing guidance. The Company adopted these ASUs using a single continuous statement in Q1 2012 for all periods presented. The Companys adoption of ASU 2011-12 did not have an impact on its consolidated results of operations or financial condition. In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-08, Testing for Goodwill Impairment, which amends current goodwill impairment testing guidance by providing entities with an option to perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test. ASU 2011-08 is effective for interim and annual goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted. The adoption of the standard did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. 3. Fair Value Measurements The Company measures certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis, including cash equivalents, short and long-term investments and contingent consideration. The fair value of these financial assets and liabilities was determined based on three levels of input as follows: Level 1. Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities; Level 2. Observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets; and Level 3. Unobservable inputs. The fair value hierarchy of the Companys financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value and measured on a recurring basis is as follows: Fair Value Measurements at Reporting Date Using March 31, 2012 Quoted Prices in Active Markets for Identical Assets (Level 1) Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level 2) Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3) (Unaudited) Assets: Money market funds(1) $ 9,660 $ 9,660 $ $ Short-term investments(2) 28,397 28,397 Long-term investments(2) 7,759 7,759 Total $ 45,816 $ 9,660 $ 36,156 $ 10 Fair Value Measurements at Reporting Date Using December 31, 2011 Quoted Prices in Active Markets for Identical Assets (Level 1) Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level 2) Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3) Assets: Money market funds(1) $ 8,361 $ 8,361 $ $ Short-term investments(2) 30,684 30,684 Long-term investments(2) 6,751 6,751 Total $ 45,796 $ 8,361 $ 37,435 $ Liabilities: Contingent consideration(3) $ 1,405 $ $ $ 1,405 Total liabilities $ 1,405 $ $ $ 1,405 (1) Included in cash and cash equivalents on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets; valued at quoted market prices in active markets. (2) Our short and long-term investments consist of municipal bonds; their fair value is calculated using an interest rate yield curve for similar instruments. (3) The fair value of contingent consideration payable in connection with acquisitions was determined using a probability approach under which the contingent consideration was calculated based on the weighted probability of several forecasted outcomes and discounted using an applicable rate. 4. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Investments Cash and cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less at date of purchase. Cash equivalents are carried at cost, which approximates their fair market value. Cash and cash equivalents consisted of the following: March 31, 2012 December 31, 2011 (Unaudited) Cash $ 15,022 $ 17,425 Money market funds 9,660 8,361 Total cash and cash equivalents $ 24,682 $ 25,786 The Companys short and long-term investments are accounted for as available for sale securities. These investments are recorded at fair value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income, a component of stockholders equity, net of tax. The unrealized (loss) gain, net of taxes, was $(7) and $12 as of March 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively. Realized gains and losses on the sale of these investments are determined using the specific identification method. There were no realized gains or losses during the three months ended March 31, 2012 or 2011. Short and long-term investments consisted of the following: March 31, 2012 Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Estimated Fair Value (Unaudited) Short and long-term investments: Municipal bonds $ 36,126 $ 37 $ (7 ) $ 36,156 Total short and long-term investments $ 36,126 $ 37 $ (7 ) $ 36,156 December 31, 2011 Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Estimated Fair Value Short and long-term investments: Municipal bonds $ 37,416 $ 29 $ (10 ) $ 37,435 Total short and long-term investments $ 37,416 $ 29 $ (10 ) $ 37,435 11 The Company had five debt securities in an unrealized loss position at March 31, 2012. All of these securities have been in such a position for less than 12 months. The unrealized loss on those securities was approximately $7 and the fair value was $9.7 million. As of March 31, 2012, the Company does not consider these investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired. Municipal bonds have contractual maturity dates within twenty-nine months. All income generated from these investments is recorded as interest income. 5. Intangible Assets Intangible assets subject to amortization as of March 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011 consist of the following: As of March 31, 2012 Estimated Useful Lives (Years) Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net (Unaudited) Customer, affiliate and advertiser relationships 4 9 $ 8,956 $ (4,847 ) $ 4,109 Developed websites 3 5,400 (4,425 ) 975 Trademark, trade name and domain name 1 - 7 1,831 (938 ) 893 Proprietary user information database and Internet traffic 5 5,206 (3,933 ) 1,273 Non-compete agreements 2 - 3 346 (201 ) 145 Total intangible assets $ 21,739 $ (14,344 ) $ 7,395 As of December 31, 2011 Estimated Useful Lives (Years) Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Customer, affiliate and advertiser relationships 4 - 9 $ 8,928 $ (4,509 ) $ 4,419 Developed websites 3 5,400 (4,200 ) 1,200 Trademark, trade name and domain name 1 - 7 1,942 (978 ) 964 Proprietary user information database and Internet traffic 5 5,188 (3,669 ) 1,519 Non-compete agreements 2 - 3 343 (168 ) 175 Total intangible assets $ 21,801 $ (13,524 ) $ 8,277 Intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives, which range from one to nine years, using methods of amortization that are expected to reflect the estimated pattern of economic use. The remaining amortization expense will be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 2.19 years. Amortization expense was $0.9 million and $1.1 million for the three month periods ended March 31, 2012 and 2011. Amortization expense is recorded within operating expenses as the intangible assets consist of customer-related assets and website traffic that the Company considers to be in support of selling and marketing activities. The Company expects amortization expense of intangible assets to be as follows: Years Ending December 31: Amortization Expense (Unaudited) 2012 (April 1st December 31st) $ 2,404 2013 1,788 2014 1,393 2015 1,146 2016 664 Thereafter $ 7,395 12 6. Net Income (Loss) Per Common Share A reconciliation of the numerator and denominator used in the calculation of basic and diluted net income (loss) per common share is as follows: For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2012 2011 (Unaudited) Numerator: Net income (loss) $ 365 $ (75 ) Denominator: Basic: Weighted average shares of common stock outstanding 39,862,329 37,940,422 Diluted: Weighted average shares of common stock outstanding 39,862,329 37,940,422 Effect of potentially dilutive shares (1) 990,509 Total weighted average shares of common stock outstanding 40,852,838 37,940,422 Net Income (Loss) Per Common Share: Basic net income (loss) per common share $ 0.01 $ (0.00 ) Diluted net income (loss) per common share $ 0.01 $ (0.00 ) (1) In calculating diluted earnings per share, 4,065,883 and 3,093,744 shares related to outstanding stock options and unvested restricted stock awards were excluded for the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, because they were anti-dilutive. 7. Bank Term Loan Payable The Companys $5.0 million revolving credit facility was amended in August 2011, extending its term and adjusting certain other financial terms and covenants. Unless earlier payment is required by an event of default, all principal and unpaid interest will be due and payable on August 31, 2016. At the Companys option, the Revolving Credit Facility (the Credit Agreement) bears interest at either the prime rate less 1.00% or the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus the applicable LIBOR margin. The applicable LIBOR margin is based on the ratio of total funded debt to earnings before interest, other income and expense, income taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) for the preceding four fiscal quarters. As of March 31, 2012, the applicable LIBOR margin was 1.25%. The Company is also required to pay an unused line fee on the daily unused amount of its Revolving Credit Facility at a per annum rate based on the ratio of total funded debt to EBITDA for the preceding four fiscal quarters. As of March 31, 2012, the per annum unused line fee rate was 0.20%. At March 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011 there were no amounts outstanding under the Credit Agreement. There was a $1.5 million standby letter of credit related to the Companys corporate headquarters lease that was outstanding at March 31, 2012, bringing the Companys available borrowings on the $5.0 million facility to $3.5 million. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement are collateralized by a security interest in substantially all assets of the Company. Covenants governing the Credit Agreement include the maintenance of certain financial ratios. At March 31, 2012 the Company was in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreement. 8. Commitments and Contingencies Operating Leases The Company conducts its operations in leased office facilities under various noncancelable operating lease agreements that expire through March 2020. In August 2009, the Company entered into an agreement to lease approximately 87,875 square feet of office space in Newton, Massachusetts. The lease commenced in February 2010 and has a term of ten years. The Company is receiving certain rent concessions over the life of the lease. In November 2010, the Newton lease was amended to include an additional 8,400 square feet of office space. The amended lease commenced in March 2011 and runs concurrently with the term of the original lease. The Company is receiving certain rent concessions over the life of the amended lease. 13 Certain of the Companys operating leases include lease incentives and escalating payment amounts and are renewable for varying periods. The Company is recognizing the related rent expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease taking into account the lease incentives and escalating lease payments. Future minimum lease payments under the Companys noncancelable operating leases at March 31, 2012 are as follows: Years Ending December 31: Minimum Lease Payments (Unaudited) 2012 (April 1st December 31st) $ 3,091 2013 3,424 2014 3,394 2015 3,413 2016 3,490 Thereafter 10,722 $ 27,534 The Company has an irrevocable standby letter of credit outstanding in the aggregate amount of $1.5 million. This letter of credit supports the lease the Company entered into in 2009 for its corporate headquarters. This letter of credit extends, subject to certain reductions, annually through February 28, 2020 unless notification of termination is received. Net Worth Tax Contingency In late March 2010, the Company received a letter from the Department of Revenue of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts (the MA DOR) requesting documentation demonstrating that TSC has been classified by the MA DOR as a Massachusetts security corporation. Following subsequent correspondence with the MA DOR and a settlement conference on March 22, 2011, the Company received on July 16, 2011 a Notice of Assessment from MA DOR for 2006 and 2007 in the amount of approximately $198 (which amount included all interest and penalties to date) with respect to additional excise taxes on net worth related to TSC. Based on the Companys previous assessment that it was probable that the MA DOR would require an adjustment to correct TSCs tax filings such that it will be treated as a Massachusetts business corporation for the applicable years, for the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company recorded a liability of approximately $200, representing its best estimate at that time of the potential net worth tax exposure. The tax benefits available to a Massachusetts security corporation are comprised of (i) a different rate structure (1.32% on gross investment income vs. 9.5% on net income) and (ii) exemption from the 0.26% excise tax on net worth. On August 17, 2011, the Company filed Applications for Abatement with the MA DOR. On January 6, 2012, the Company filed Petitions for Formal Procedure with the Massachusetts Appellate Tax Board and intends to continue to dispute the assessment and believes it has meritorious defenses which it intends to vigorously assert. There were no changes to the net worth tax reserve assessment as of March 31, 2012. Litigation From time to time and in the ordinary course of business, the Company may be subject to various claims, charges, and litigation. At March 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, the Company did not have any pending claims, charges, or litigation that it expects would have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 9. Comprehensive Income (Loss) Comprehensive income (loss) includes all changes in equity during a period, except those resulting from investments by stockholders and distributions to stockholders. For the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 the Companys comprehensive income (loss) is as follows: 14 For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2012 2011 (Unaudited) Net income (loss) $ 365 $ (75 ) Other comprehensive income: Unrealized gain on investments (net of tax effect of $4 and $2, respectively) 7 4 Unrealized gain on foreign currency exchange 122 17 Other comprehensive income 129 21 Total comprehensive income (loss) $ 494 $ (54 ) 10. Stock-Based Compensation Stock Option Plans In September 1999, the Company approved a stock option plan (the 1999 Plan) that provides for the issuance of up to 12,384,646 shares of common stock incentives. The 1999 Plan provides for the granting of incentive stock options (ISOs), nonqualified stock options (NSOs), and stock grants. These incentives may be offered to the Companys employees, officers, directors, consultants, and advisors, as defined. ISOs may not be granted at less than fair market value on the date of grant, as determined by the Companys Board of Directors (the Board). Each option shall be exercisable at such times and subject to such terms as determined by the Board; grants generally vest over a four year period, and expire no later than ten years after the grant date. In April 2007, the Board approved the 2007 Stock Option and Incentive Plan (the 2007 Plan), which was approved by the stockholders and became effective upon the consummation of the Companys IPO in May 2007. Effective upon the consummation of the IPO, no further awards were made pursuant to the 1999 Plan, but any outstanding awards under the 1999 Plan will remain in effect and will continue to be subject to the terms of the 1999 Plan. The 2007 Plan allows the Company to grant ISOs, NSOs, stock appreciation rights, deferred stock awards, restricted stock and other awards. Under the 2007 Plan, stock options may not be granted at less than fair market value on the date of grant, and grants generally vest over a four year period. Stock options granted under the 2007 Plan expire no later than ten years after the grant date. The Company has reserved for issuance an aggregate of 2,911,667 shares of common stock under the 2007 Plan plus an additional annual increase to be added automatically on January 1 of each year, beginning on January 1, 2008, equal to the lesser of (a) 2% of the outstanding number of shares of common stock (on a fully-diluted basis) on the immediately preceding December 31 and (b) such lower number of shares as may be determined by the Companys compensation committee. The number of shares available for issuance under the 2007 Plan is subject to adjustment in the event of a stock split, stock dividend or other change in capitalization. Generally, shares that are forfeited or canceled from awards under the 2007 Plan also will be available for future awards. To date, approximately 4.9 million shares have been added to the plan in accordance with the automatic annual increase. In addition, shares subject to stock options returned to the 1999 Plan, as a result of their expiration, cancellation or termination, are automatically made available for issuance under the 2007 Plan. As of March 31, 2012 a total of 2,023,159 shares were available for grant under the 2007 Plan. Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation The Company uses the Black-Scholes option pricing model to calculate the grant-date fair value of an award. The Company calculated the fair values of the options granted using the following estimated weighted-average assumptions: Three Months Ended March 31, 2012* 2011 Expected volatility 79% Expected term 6.25 years Risk-free interest rate 2.30% Expected dividend yield 0.00% Weighted-average grant date fair value per share $5.16 * there were no options granted in the first quarter of 2012 15 As there was no public market for the Companys common stock prior to the Companys IPO in May 2007, and limited historical information on the volatility of its common stock since the date of the Companys IPO, the Company determined the volatility for options granted in the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 based on an analysis of the historical volatility of the Companys stock and reported data for a peer group of companies that issued options with substantially similar terms. The expected volatility of options granted has been determined using a weighted average of the historical volatility of the Companys stock and the peer group of companies for a period equal to the expected life of the option. The expected life of options has been determined utilizing the simplified method. The risk-free interest rate is based on a zero coupon United States treasury instrument whose term is consistent with the expected life of the stock options. The Company has not paid and does not anticipate paying cash dividends on its shares of common stock; therefore, the expected dividend yield is assumed to be zero. The Company applied an estimated annual forfeiture rate based on its historical forfeiture experience of 2.00% in determining the expense recorded in the three months ended March 31, 2011. There were no stock options granted in the three months ended March 31, 2012. A summary of the stock option activity under the Companys stock option plan for the three months ended March 31, 2012 is presented below: Year-to-Date Activity Options Outstanding Weighted- Average Exercise Price Per Share Weighted- Average Remaining Contractual Term in Years Aggregate Intrinsic Value (Unaudited) Options outstanding at December 31, 2011 6,010,000 $ 6.90 Granted Exercised (99,985 ) 4.97 Forfeited (54,688 ) 5.53 Cancelled (3,750 ) 3.89 Options outstanding at March 31, 2012 5,851,577 $ 6.95 5.0 $ 5,354 Options exercisable at March 31, 2012 5,297,748 $ 7.04 4.7 $ 4,807 Options vested or expected to vest at March 31, 2012 (1) 5,790,678 $ 6.95 4.9 $ 5,294 (1) In addition to the vested options, the Company expects a portion of the unvested options to vest at some point in the future. Options expected to vest is calculated by applying an estimated forfeiture rate to the unvested options. During the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, the total intrinsic value of options exercised (i.e. the difference between the market price at exercise and the price paid by the employee to exercise the options) was $198 and $284, respectively, and the total amount of cash received from exercise of these options was $497 and $560, respectively. The total grant date fair value of stock options granted after January 1, 2006 that vested during the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 was $398 and $595, respectively. Restricted Stock Awards Restricted stock awards are valued at the market price of a share of the Companys common stock on the date of grant. A summary of the restricted stock award activity under the 2007 Stock Plan for the three months ended March 31, 2012 is presented below: Year-to-Date Activity Shares Weighted- Average Grant Date Fair Value Per Share Aggregate Intrinsic Value (Unaudited) Nonvested outstanding at December 31, 2011 1,663,751 $ 5.66 Granted 570,000 6.16 Vested (255,001 ) 5.11 Forfeited (148,750 ) 6.27 Nonvested outstanding at March 31, 2012 1,830,000 $ 5.44 $ 5,645 The total grant-date fair value of restricted stock awards that vested during the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 was $1.3 million and $1.4 million, respectively. As of March 31, 2012, there was $10.7 million of total unrecognized compensation expense related to stock options and restricted stock awards which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.3 years. 16 11. Stockholders Equity Preferred Shares Authorized In April 2007, the Board of Directors authorized 5,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock, par value $0.001 per share. No preferred shares have been issued as of March 31, 2012. Reserved Common Stock As of March 31, 2012, the Company has reserved 10,519,300 shares of common stock for options and restricted stock awards outstanding and available for grant under stock option plans. 12. Income Taxes The Companys effective income tax rate was 35.1% and (436%) for the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The effective income tax rate is based upon the estimated annual effective tax rate in compliance with ASC 740, Income Taxes , and other related guidance. The Company updates the estimate of its annual effective tax rate at the end of each quarterly period. The Companys estimate takes into account estimations of annual pre-tax income, the geographic mix of pre-tax income and its interpretations of tax laws. The Companys practice is to recognize interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters in income tax expense. The Company recognized interest and penalties totaling $3 in income tax expense in the three months ended March 31, 2012. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company had recorded a tax reserve of approximately $400 for the potential state income tax liability arising from the difference between the income tax rates applicable for security corporations and business corporations in Massachusetts, relating to the matter described in Note 8. In connection with such matter, on July 21, 2011, the Company received a Notice of Assessment from MA DOR for 2006 and 2007 in the amount of approximately $345 (which amount included all interest and penalties to date) with respect to additional income taxes related to TechTarget, Inc. The Company increased the reserve assessment to reflect additional interest accrued through the first quarter of 2012. The balance of the reserve assessment as of March 31, 2012 was $433. On August 17, 2011, the Company filed Applications for Abatement with the MA DOR. On January 6, 2012, the Company filed Petitions under Formal Procedure with the Massachusetts Appellate Tax Board and intends to continue to dispute the assessment and believes it has meritorious defenses which it intends to vigorously assert. Tax years 2008 through 2011 are subject to examination by the federal and state taxing authorities. There are no income tax examinations currently in process with the exception of the matter noted above related to the MA DOR. 13. Segment Information The Company views its operations and manages its business as one operating segment based on factors such as how the Company manages its operations and how its CEO, COO and President review results and make decisions on how to allocate resources and assess performance. Geographic Data Net sales to unaffiliated customers by geographic area were as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, (unaudited) 2012 2011 North America $ 20,482 $ 20,790 International 3,232 1,776 Total $ 23,714 $ 22,566 17 Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes and the other financial information included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. In this discussion and analysis, dollar, share and per share amounts are not rounded to thousands unless otherwise indicated. This discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those discussed below and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, particularly under the heading Risk Factors. Overview Background We are a leading provider of specialized online content and brand advertising that brings together buyers and sellers of corporate information technology ( IT) products. We sell customized marketing programs that enable IT vendors to reach corporate IT decision makers who are actively researching specific IT purchases. Our integrated content platform consists of a network of over 115 websites that we complement with targeted in-person events. Throughout the critical stages of the purchase decision process, our content offerings meet IT professionals needs for expert, peer and IT vendor information, and provide a platform on which IT vendors can launch targeted marketing campaigns that generate measurable, high Return on Investment (ROI). As IT professionals have become increasingly specialized, they have come to rely on our sector-specific websites for purchasing decision support. Our content enables IT professionals to navigate the complex and rapidly changing IT landscape where purchasing decisions can have significant financial and operational consequences. Based upon the logical clustering of our users respective job responsibilities and the marketing focus of the products that our customers are advertising, we currently categorize our content offerings across nine distinct media groups: Application Architecture and Development; Channel; CIO/IT Strategy; Data Center and Virtualization Technologies; Business Applications and Analytics; Networking; Security; Storage; and TechnologyGuide.com. Executive Summary During 2011 and the period ended March 31, 2012, we made significant progress on our strategy to grow our business and increase the reach of our offerings. Central to these efforts is the progress that we have made with our new product platform, Activity Intelligence , and the continued expansion of our direct international capabilities. Key strategic activities during the period ended March 31, 2012 included: Activity Intelligence Over 300 of our customers are using the Activity Intelligence dashboard and approximately 175 have now integrated our Activity Intelligence dashboard with their internal CRM system. We are now turning our focus to getting more in-depth penetration at existing accounts. We have also received positive feedback from customers with our new Nurture and Notify product launch, with customers reporting seeing a material increase in conversion rates on their leads, which leads to improved ROI. In addition, we have several new products in development that we currently plan to introduce later this year that we expect will provide recurring revenue streams that are not directly tied to our marketing campaigns. International Update We continue to grow our international business. Geo-targeted revenues contributed 18% of overall revenue in the three-month period ended March 31, 2012, while all regions (EMEA, APAC, LATAM) grew revenue by more than 75%. Although the macro-economy in EMEA is extremely challenging, we continue to make very good in-roads into the market, as evidenced by the results. International Offices We established an office in Singapore to help better manage Southeast Asian sales operations and work more closely with Asia-Pacific (APAC) regional marketers. TechTarget has approximately 363,000 registered members from Southeast Asia and serves more than 8 million Southeast Asian ad impressions each quarter across its network of sites focused on enterprise information technology topics such as data centers, virtualization, cloud computing, storage, networking and business applications. The new Singapore office adds to the established operational bases TechTarget has across APAC, including offices in China, India and Australia. 18 Site launches : In the three-month period ended March 31, 2012, we launched the following new websites: SearchFinancialApplications.com , a new website designed to assist business and information technology professionals using technology to manage finance and human resources (HR) functions. Launching with over 25,000 active, registered members, SearchFinancialApplications.com publishes articles, tutorials and other resources to help organizations make smarter technology purchasing decisions in areas such as accounting/general ledger (GL), procurement, analytics, employee financials, payroll, HR/HCM, talent management, workforce analytics and more. SearchSolidStateStorage.com , a new website designed to assist information technology professionals with technical research on solid state storage products including flash technologies. Solid state storage is made from silicon microchips and unlike traditional spinning hard disk drives and tape media stores data electronically instead of magnetically, so it has no mechanical parts. Solid state storage is gaining rapid deployment as the latest in a wave of technology innovations intended to add efficiency to storage infrastructures, innovations that include data deduplication, automated tiering, thin provisioning and storage virtualization. Business Trends The following discussion highlights key trends affecting our business. Macro-economic Conditions and Industry Trends. Because all of our customers are IT vendors, the success of our business is intrinsically linked to the health, and subject to market conditions, of the IT industry. In addition to the ongoing instability and unpredictable growth continuing to affect the domestic and international economies, generally, in the three-month period ended March 31, 2012, we saw a growing weakness in the IT market. Using the six largest Global IT vendors by revenue (HP, IBM, Dell, Microsoft, Cisco, Oracle) as a barometer, their aggregate revenue for their most recently reported public quarter decreased approximately $200 million compared to the same quarter in the prior year, which is flat on a percentage basis. When comparing that same prior quarter to 2010, revenue was up almost $10 billion in that quarter, equal to a 9.8% increase. This is a clear indication that there has been a material deceleration in the growth in the Global IT market. As a result, recently, we have started to see evidence that some IT vendors North American advertising budgets are being cut, which is negatively affecting our growth rate. Additionally, unlike previous periods, this deceleration has affected all segments of our customer base. As a result, until management is able to better determine if the pullback in spending by our customers is a temporary condition or a new level of spending, although we will continue to invest in growth areas, management will carefully control discretionary spending such as travel and entertainment, and the filling of new and replacement positions, in an effort to maintain profit margins and cash flow. Customer Segments. In the three-month period ended March 31, 2012, revenue from our top 12 global customers grew in the double digits, while mid-sized customers (our next largest 100 customers) and our smaller customers grew in the single digits. All three of our customer segments report seeing a weak environment with lower demand and customers delaying IT purchases, which is resulting in elongated purchase cycles. This translates into our customers being very cautious with their marketing expenditures. 19 Sources of Revenues We sell advertising programs to IT vendors targeting a specific audience within a particular IT sector or sub-sector. We maintain multiple points of contact with our customers to provide support throughout their organizations and the sales cycle. As a result, our customers often run multiple advertising programs with us in order to reach discrete portions of our targeted audience. There are multiple factors that can impact our customers advertising objectives and spending with us, including but not limited to, product launches, increases or decreases to their advertising budgets, the timing of key industry marketing events, responses to competitor activities and efforts to address specific marketing objectives such as creating brand awareness or generating sales leads. Our services are generally delivered under short-term contracts that run for the length of a given advertising program, typically less than six months. We use the following online and event offerings to provide IT vendors with numerous touch points to reach key IT decision makers and to provide IT professionals with highly specialized content across multiple forms of media. We are experienced in assisting advertisers to develop custom advertising programs that maximize branding and ROI. The following is a description of the services we offer: Online. Our network of websites forms the core of our content platform. Our websites provide IT professionals with comprehensive decision support information tailored to their specific areas of responsibility and purchasing decisions. Through our websites, we offer a variety of online media offerings to connect IT vendors to IT professionals. Our lead generation offerings allow IT vendors to maximize ROI by capturing qualified sales leads from the distribution and promotion of content to our audience of IT professionals. In August of 2011, TechTarget released a major upgrade to its Activity Intelligence platform. Beginning in 2012, all of our lead generation campaigns offer the Activity Intelligence Dashboard. In March 2012, we introduced Nurture & Notify as a new service of the Activity Intelligence platform. Our branding offerings provide IT vendors exposure to targeted audiences of IT professionals actively researching information related to their products and services. Our branding offerings include display advertising and custom offerings. Display advertising can be purchased on specific websites within our network, and against specific technology segments. Our custom offerings allow customers to have content or entire micro-sites created that focus on topics related to their marketing objectives and include promotion of these vehicles to our users. These offerings give IT vendors the ability to increase their brand awareness to highly specialized IT sectors. Our lead generation offerings include the following: Activity Intelligence Dashboard. This new technology platform gives TechTargets customers marketers and sales representatives, a real-time view of their prospects, which includes insights on the research activities of technology buying teams, including at an account level. White Papers. White papers are technical documents created by IT vendors to describe business or technical problems which are addressed by the vendors products or services. As part of a lead generation campaign, we post white papers on our relevant websites and our users receive targeted promotions about these content assets. Prior to viewing white papers, our registered members and visitors supply their corporate contact information and agree to receive further information from the vendor. The corporate contact and other qualification information for these leads are supplied to the vendor in real time through our proprietary lead management software. Webcasts, Podcasts, Videocasts and Virtual Trade Shows. Webcasts, podcasts, videocasts, virtual trade shows and similar content bring informational sessions directly to attendees desktops and, in the case of podcasts, directly to their mobile devices. As is the case with white papers, our users supply their corporate contact and qualification information to the webcast, podcast or videocast sponsor when they view or download the content. Sponsorship includes access to the registrant information and visibility before, during and after the event. Our other offerings include the following: Nurture and Notify. This new service, using the Activity Intelligence platform, helps both technology marketers and their sales teams to identify highly active prospects, detect emerging projects, retarget interested buying teams, and accelerate engagement with specific accounts. Custom Content Creation. In support of our advertisers lead generation programs, we will sometimes create white papers, case studies, webcasts, or videos to our customers specifications through our Custom Media team. These content assets are then promoted to our audience in the context of the advertisers lead generation programs. 20 Content Sponsorships . IT vendors pay us to sponsor editorially created content vehicles on specific technology topics, such as e-Zines, e-Books, and e-Guides. In some cases, these vehicles are supported by multiple sponsors in a single segment, with the registrant information provided to all participating sponsors. Because these offerings are editorially driven, advertisers get the benefit of association with independently created content, and access to qualified sales leads that are researching the topic. List Rentals. We also offer IT vendors the ability to message relevant registered members on topics related to their interests. IT vendors can rent our e-mail and postal lists of registered members using specific criteria such as company size, geography or job title. Third Party Revenue Sharing Arrangements. We have arrangements with certain third parties, including for the licensing of our online content, for the renting of our database of opted-in e-mail subscribers and for which advertising from customers of certain third parties is made available to our website visitors. In each of these arrangements we are paid a share of the resulting revenue. Events. Events revenue represented approximately 7% and 10% of total revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Most of our media groups operate revenue generating events. The majority of our events are free to IT professionals and are sponsored by IT vendors. Attendees are pre-screened based on event-specific criteria such as sector-specific budget size, company size, or job title. We offer three types of events: multi-day conferences, single-day seminars and custom events. Multi-day conferences provide independent expert content for our attendees and allow vendors to purchase exhibit space and other sponsorship offerings that enable interaction with the attendees. We also hold single-day seminars on various topics in major cities. These seminars provide independent content on key sub-topics in the sectors we serve, are free to qualified attendees, and offer multiple vendors the ability to interact with specific, targeted audiences actively focused on buying decisions. Our custom events differ from our seminars in that they are exclusively sponsored by a single IT vendor, and the content is driven primarily by the sole sponsor. Cost of Revenues, Operating Expenses and Other Expenses consist of cost of revenues, selling and marketing, product development, general and administrative, depreciation, and amortization expenses. Personnel-related costs are a significant component of most of these expense categories except for depreciation and amortization. Cost of Online Revenue. Cost of online revenue consists primarily of: salaries and related personnel costs; member acquisition expenses (primarily keyword purchases from leading Internet search sites); freelance writer expenses; website hosting costs; vendor expenses associated with the delivery of webcast, podcast, videocast and similar content, and list rental offerings; stock-based compensation expenses; facilities and other related overhead. Cost of Events Revenue. Cost of events revenue consists primarily of: facility expenses, including food and beverages for the event attendees as well as office space; salaries and related personnel costs; event speaker expenses; stock-based compensation expenses; and other related overhead. Selling and Marketing. Selling and marketing expense consists primarily of: salaries and related personnel costs; sales commissions; travel, lodging and other out-of-pocket expenses; stock-based compensation expenses; facilities and related overhead. Sales commissions are recorded as expense when earned by the employee, based on recorded revenue. Product Development. Product development includes the creation and maintenance of our network of websites, advertiser offerings and technical infrastructure. Product development expense consists primarily of salaries and related personnel costs; stock-based compensation expenses; facilities and other related overhead. General and Administrative. General and administrative expense consists primarily of: salaries and related personnel costs; facilities expenses; accounting, legal and other professional fees; and stock-based compensation expenses. Depreciation. Depreciation expense consists of the depreciation of our property and equipment. Depreciation of property and equipment is calculated using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, ranging from two to ten years. 21 Amortization of Intangible Assets. Amortization of intangible assets expense consists of the amortization of intangible assets recorded in connection with our acquisitions. Separable intangible assets that are not deemed to have an indefinite life are amortized over their estimated useful lives, which range from one to nine years, using methods that are expected to reflect the estimated pattern of economic use. Interest Income (Expense), Net. Interest income (expense), net consists primarily of interest income earned on cash, cash equivalents and short and long-term investments less any interest expense incurred. We historically have invested our cash in money market accounts, municipal bonds and government agency bonds. Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates The discussion of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue, long-lived assets, the allowance for doubtful accounts, stock-based compensation, and income taxes. We based our estimates of the carrying value of certain assets and liabilities on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable. In many cases, we could reasonably have used different accounting policies and estimates. In some cases, changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. See the notes to our consolidated financial statements for information about these critical accounting policies as well as a description of our other accounting policies. Revenue Recognition We generate substantially all of our revenue from the sale of targeted advertising campaigns which we deliver via our network of websites and events. In all cases, we recognize revenue only when the price is fixed or determinable, persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the service is performed and collectability of the resulting receivable is reasonably assured. The majority of our online media sales involve multiple product offerings. Although each of our online media offerings can be sold separately, most of our online media sales involve multiple online offerings. Because objective evidence of fair value does not exist for all elements in our bundled product offerings, we use a best estimate of selling price of individual deliverables in the arrangement in the absence of vendor-specific objective evidence or other third party evidence of selling price. We establish best estimates considering multiple factors including, but not limited to, class of client, size of transaction, available media inventory, pricing strategies and market conditions. We believe the use of the best estimate of selling price allows revenue recognition in a manner consistent with the underlying economics of the transaction. We apply a relative selling price method to allocate arrangement consideration at the inception of the arrangement to each deliverable in a multiple element arrangement. Revenue is then recognized as delivery occurs. We evaluate all deliverables of an arrangement at inception and each time an item is delivered, to determine whether they represent separate units of accounting. Based on this evaluation, the arrangement consideration is measured and allocated to each of these elements. Event Sponsorships. We sell our events separately from our other service offerings and recognize sponsorship revenue from events in the period in which the event occurs. The majority of our events are free to qualified attendees; however, certain events are based on a paid attendee model. We recognize revenue for paid attendee events upon completion of the event. Amounts collected or billed prior to satisfying the above revenue recognition criteria are recorded as deferred revenue. Online Media. Revenue for lead generation campaigns is recognized as follows: Beginning in the period ended March 31, 2012, our lead generation campaigns all offer the Activity Intelligence Dashboard. Accordingly, in order to manage the lead generation component, we have changed our operational approach and the manner in which we sell our products. Instead of selling individual elements, we sell various lead generation campaigns with the dashboard. Revenue is recognized ratably over the duration of the campaigns. As part of these offerings, we will guarantee a minimum number of qualified leads to be delivered over the course of the advertising campaign. We determine the content necessary to achieve performance guarantees. Scheduled end dates of advertising campaigns sometimes need to be extended to satisfy lead guarantees. 22 In 2011, revenue for elements of lead generation campaigns was recognized as follows: White Papers. White paper revenue was recognized ratably over the period in which the white paper was available on our websites. Webcasts, Podcasts, Videocasts and Virtual Trade Shows. Webcast, podcast, videocast, virtual trade show and similar content revenue was recognized ratably over the period in which the webcast, podcast, videocast or virtual trade show was available on our websites. As part of these offerings, we will guarantee a minimum number of qualified leads to be delivered over the course of the advertising campaign. Scheduled end dates of advertising campaigns sometimes need to be extended to satisfy lead guarantees or fulfill all elements of the advertising campaign based on delayed receipts of advertising media collateral from the customer. Revenue for other online media offerings is recognized as follows for the three-month period ended March 31, 2012: Custom Content Creation . Custom content revenue is recognized when the creation is completed and delivered to the customer. Content Sponsorships. Content sponsorship revenue is recognized ratably over the period in which the related content vehicle is available on our websites. List Rentals. List rental revenue is recognized in the period in which the list is sent to our customers. Banners. Banner revenue is recognized in the period in which the banner impressions or clicks occur. Third Party Revenue Sharing Arrangements. Revenue from third party revenue sharing arrangements is recognized on a net basis in the period in which the services are performed. For certain third party agreements where we are the primary obligor, revenue is recognized on a gross basis in the period in which the services are performed. We recognize revenue from cost per lead advertising in the period during which the leads are delivered, which is typically less than six months. Amounts collected or billed prior to satisfying the above revenue recognition criteria are recorded as deferred revenue. Long-Lived Assets Our long-lived assets consist primarily of property and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets. Goodwill and other intangible assets have arisen principally from our acquisitions. The amount assigned to intangible assets is subjective and based on our estimates of the future benefit of the intangible assets using accepted valuation techniques, such as discounted cash flow and replacement cost models. Our long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are amortized over their estimated useful lives, which we determined based on the consideration of several factors including the period of time the asset is expected to remain in service. Intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives, which range from one to nine years, using methods of amortization that are expected to reflect the estimated pattern of economic use. We evaluate the carrying value and remaining useful lives of long-lived assets, other than goodwill, whenever indicators of impairment are present. We evaluate the carrying value of goodwill annually, and whenever indicators of impairment are present. We use a discounted cash flow approach to determine the fair value of goodwill. Fair Value of Financial Instruments Financial instruments consist of cash and cash equivalents, short-term and long-term investments, accounts receivable and accounts payable. The carrying value of these instruments approximates their estimated fair values. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We offset gross trade accounts receivable with an allowance for doubtful accounts. The allowance for doubtful accounts is our best estimate of the amount of probable credit losses in our existing accounts receivable. We review our allowance for doubtful accounts on a regular basis, and all past due balances are reviewed individually for collectability. Account balances are charged against the allowance after all means of collection have been exhausted and the potential for recovery is considered remote. Provisions for doubtful accounts are recorded in general and administrative expense. If our historical collection experience does not reflect our future ability to collect outstanding accounts receivable, our future provision for doubtful accounts could be materially affected. To date, we have not incurred any write-offs of accounts receivable significantly different than the amounts reserved. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $1.3 million at March 31, 2012 and $1.1 million at December 31, 2011. 23 Stock-Based Compensation We measure stock-based compensation at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and recognize stock-based compensation expense in the Statement of Operations using the straight-line method over the vesting period of the award or using the accelerated method if the award is contingent upon performance goals. We use the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to determine the fair-value of stock option awards. We calculated the fair values of the options granted using the following estimated weighted-average assumptions: Three Months Ended March 31, 2012 * 2011 Expected volatility 79% Expected term 6.25 years Risk-free interest rate 2.30% Expected dividend yield 0.00% Weighted-average grant date fair value per share $5.16 * there were no options granted in the first quarter of 2012 As there was no public market for our common stock prior to our initial public offering in May 2007, and there has been limited historical information on the volatility of our common stock since the date of our initial public offering, we determined the volatility for options granted in the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 based on an analysis of the historical volatility of our stock and reported data for a peer group of companies that issued options with substantially similar terms. The expected volatility of options granted has been determined using a weighted average of the historical volatility of our stock and the peer group of companies for a period equal to the expected life of the option. The risk-free interest rate is based on a zero coupon United States treasury instrument whose term is consistent with the expected life of the stock options. We have not paid and do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our shares of common stock; therefore, the expected dividend yield is assumed to be zero. We applied an estimated annual forfeiture rate based on our historical forfeiture experience of 2.0% in determining the expense recorded in the three months ended March 31, 2011. There were no options granted during the three months ended March 31, 2012. Internal-Use Software and Website Development Costs We capitalize costs of materials, consultants and compensation and related expenses of employees who devote time to the development of internal-use software and website applications and infrastructure involving developing software to operate our websites. However, we expense as incurred website development costs for new features and functionalities since it is not probable that they will result in additional functionality until they are both developed and tested with confirmation that they are more effective than the current set of features and functionalities on our websites. Our judgment is required in determining the point at which various projects enter the states at which costs may be capitalized, in assessing the ongoing value of the capitalized costs and in determining the estimated useful lives over which the costs are amortized, which is generally three years. To the extent that we change the manner in which we develop and test new features and functionalities related to our websites, assess the ongoing value of capitalized assets or determine the estimated useful lives over which the costs are amortized, the amount of website development costs we capitalize and amortize in future periods would be impacted. We review capitalized internal-use software and website development costs for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. We would recognize an impairment loss only if the carrying amount of the asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. We capitalized internal-use software and website development costs of $0.9 million and $0.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and foreign jurisdictions, and we use estimates in determining our provision for income taxes. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on temporary differences between the financial reporting and income tax bases of assets and liabilities using statutory rates. 24 Our deferred tax assets are comprised primarily of book to tax differences on stock-based compensation and net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards. As of December 31, 2011, we had state NOL carryforwards of approximately $17.6 million, which may be used to offset future taxable income. The NOL carryforwards expire through 2029. Net Income (Loss) Per Share We calculate basic earnings per share (EPS) by dividing earnings available to common shareholders for the period by the weighted average number of common shares and vested, undelivered restricted stock awards. Because the holders of unvested restricted stock awards do not have nonforfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents, we do not consider these awards to be participating securities that should be included in our computation of earnings per share under the two-class method. Diluted EPS is computed using the weighted-average number of common shares and vested, undelivered restricted stock awards during the period, plus the dilutive effect of potential future issuances of common stock relating to stock option programs and other potentially dilutive securities using the treasury stock method. In calculating diluted EPS, the dilutive effect of stock options and restricted stock awards is computed using the average market price for the respective period. In addition, the assumed proceeds under the treasury stock method include the average unrecognized compensation expense and assumed tax benefit of stock options and restricted stock awards that are in-the-money. This results in the assumed buyback of additional shares, thereby reducing the dilutive impact of stock options. Results of Operations The following table sets forth our results of operations for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2012 2011 (Unaudited) ($ in thousands) Revenues: Online $ 22,071 93 % $ 20,380 90 % Events 1,643 7 2,186 10 Total revenues 23,714 100 22,566 100 Cost of revenues: Online 6,041 26 5,606 25 Events 764 3 877 4 Total cost of revenues 6,805 29 6,483 29 Gross profit 16,909 71 16,083 71 Operating expenses: Selling and marketing 9,163 39 8,631 38 Product development 1,855 8 1,946 9 General and administrative 3,649 15 3,799 17 Depreciation 767 3 641 3 Amortization of intangible assets 937 4 1,086 5 Total operating expenses 16,371 69 16,103 71 Operating income (loss) 538 2 (20 ) * Interest income, net 25 * 6 * Income (loss) before provision for income taxes 563 2 (14 ) * Provision for income taxes 198 1 61 * Net income (loss) $ 365 2 % $ (75 ) * % * Not meaningful 25 Comparison of Three Months Ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, 2012 2011 Increase (Decrease) Percent Change (Unaudited) ($ in thousands) Revenues: Online $ 22,071 $ 20,380 $ 1,691 8 % Events 1,643 2,186 (543 ) (25 ) Total revenues $ 23,714 $ 22,566 $ 1,148 5 % Online. The increase in online revenue was primarily attributable to a $1.7 million increase in delivery of lead generation offerings. Events. The decrease in events revenue is due to an event that took place in the first quarter of 2011 that was not held in the first quarter of 2012. Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit Three Months Ended March 31, 2012 2011 Increase (Decrease) Percent Change (Unaudited) ($ in thousands) Cost of revenues: Online $ 6,041 $ 5,606 $ 435 8 % Events 764 877 (113 ) (13 ) Total cost of revenues $ 6,805 $ 6,483 $ 322 5 % Gross profit $ 16,909 $ 16,083 $ 826 5 % Gross profit percentage 71 % 71 % Cost of Online Revenues. The increase in cost of online revenues was primarily attributable to a $0.4 million increase in payroll-related expenses due to increased headcount. Cost of Events Revenues. Cost of events revenues decreased in the first quarter as compared to the same period a year ago, primarily due to decreases in variable direct costs as a result of the decrease in the number of events that we conducted. Gross Profit. Our gross profit is equal to the difference between our revenues and our cost of revenues for the period. Gross profit for the first quarter of both 2012 and 2011 was 71%. The increase in online gross profit was $1.3 million, attributable to the increase in online revenue offset by increases in compensation costs as compared to the first quarter of 2011. Events gross profit decreased by $0.4 million, primarily as a result of the lower events revenues. Because the majority of our costs are labor-related, we expect our gross profit to fluctuate from period to period depending on the total revenues for the period, as well as the relative contribution of online and events revenues to our total revenues. Operating Expenses and Other Three Months Ended March 31, 2012 2011 Increase (Decrease) Percent Change (Unaudited) ($ in thousands) Operating expenses: Selling and marketing $ 9,163 $ 8,631 $ 532 6 % Product development 1,855 1,946 (91 ) (5 ) General and administrative 3,649 3,799 (150 ) (4 ) Depreciation 767 641 126 20 Amortization of intangible assets 937 1,086 (149 ) (14 ) Total operating expenses $ 16,371 $ 16,103 $ 268 2 % Interest income, net $ 25 $ 6 $ 19 317 % Provision for income taxes $ 198 $ 61 $ 137 225 % 26 Selling and Marketing. Selling and marketing expenses increased $0.5 million, primarily due to a $0.7 million increase in compensation and travel costs, due primarily to increased headcount, and a $0.2 million increase in facilities and other costs related to international expansion, offset in part by a $0.4 million decrease in stock-based compensation due to the completion of vesting of certain equity awards. Product Development. The decrease in product development expense was primarily caused by a reduction in payroll and allocated costs due to these costs being capitalized at higher levels resulting from our ongoing internal development projects. General and Administrative. The decrease in general and administrative expense was primarily attributable to a $0.2 million reduction in stock-based compensation, primarily due to the completion of vesting of certain equity awards and a decrease in professional fees, primarily acquisition-related legal and audit fees in the first quarter of 2011. These decreases were partially offset by increases in bad debt and corporate tax-related expenses. Depreciation and Amortization of Intangible Assets. The increase in depreciation expense is related to our increased fixed asset base, primarily as a result of our continued investment in internal-use software development costs and computer equipment. The decrease in amortization of intangible assets expense was primarily attributable to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized during 2011, partially offset by amortization on newly acquired intangible assets. Interest Income, Net. The increase in interest income, net, reflects our higher cash balances in the three months ended March 31, 2012 as compared to the same period in 2011. Provision for Income Taxes. Our effective income tax rate was 35.1% and (436%) for the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The effective income tax rate is based upon the estimated annual effective tax rate in compliance with ASC 740, Income Taxes , and other related guidance. We update the estimate of our annual effective tax rate at the end of each quarterly period. Our estimate takes into account estimations of annual pre-tax income, the geographic mix of pre-tax income and interpretations of tax laws. Seasonality The timing of our revenues is affected by seasonal factors. Our revenues are seasonal primarily as a result of the annual budget approval process of many of our customers, the normal timing at which our customers have their new product introductions and the historical decrease in advertising and events activity in summer months. Events revenue may vary depending on which quarters we produce the event, which may vary when compared to previous periods. The timing of revenues in relation to our expenses, much of which does not vary directly with revenue, has an impact on the cost of online revenues, selling and marketing, product development, and general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue in each calendar quarter during the year. The majority of our expenses are personnel-related and include salaries, stock-based compensation, benefits and incentive-based compensation plan expenses. As a result, we have not experienced significant seasonal fluctuations in the timing of our expenses period to period. Liquidity and Capital Resources Resources We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and investments, our cash flow from operating activities and available bank borrowings will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months. Our future working capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the operations of our existing business, our potential strategic expansion internationally, future acquisitions we might undertake, and the expansion into complementary businesses. To the extent that our cash, cash equivalents and investments, our cash flow from operating activities and available bank borrowings are insufficient to fund our future activities, we may need to raise additional funds through bank credit arrangements or public or private equity or debt financings. We also may need to raise additional funds in the event we determine in the future to effect one or more additional acquisitions of businesses. 27 March 31, 2012 December 31, 2011 (Unaudited) ($ in thousands) Cash, cash equivalents and investments $ 60,838 $ 63,221 Accounts receivable, net $ 29,612 $ 26,272 Cash, Cash Equivalents and Investments Our cash, cash equivalents and investments at March 31, 2012 were held for working capital purposes and were invested primarily in money market accounts and municipal bonds. We do not enter into investments for trading or speculative purposes. Accounts Receivable, Net Our accounts receivable balance fluctuates from period to period, which affects our cash flow from operating activities. The fluctuations vary depending on the timing of our service delivery and billing activity, cash collections, and changes to our allowance for doubtful accounts. We use days sales outstanding, or DSO, as a measurement of the quality and status of our receivables. We define DSO as net accounts receivable at period end divided by total revenue for the applicable period, multiplied by the number of days in the applicable period. DSO was 114 days for the quarter ended March 31, 2012 and 84 days at December 31, 2011. The increase in DSO is primarily the result of lower cash collections during the quarter as it compared to billings. Collections decreased quarter over quarter by approximately 16.5% versus a billings decrease of 4.7%. Collections are, however, consistent with prior first quarters collections activities. Cash Flows Three Months Ended March 31, 2012 2011 (Unaudited) ($ in thousands) Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities $ (1,494 ) $ 678 Net cash used in investing activities(1) $ 1,481 $ 1,162 Net cash provided by financing activities $ 695 $ 963 (1) Cash used in investing activities is shown net of investment activity of $1.0 million and $1.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Operating Activities Cash (used in) provided by operating activities primarily consists of net income (loss) adjusted for certain non-cash items including depreciation and amortization, the provision for bad debt, stock-based compensation, deferred income taxes, and the effect of changes in working capital and other activities. Cash used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2012 was $1.5 million compared to cash provided by operating activities of $0.7 million in the three months ended March 31, 2011. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was a result of changes in operating assets and liabilities of $(5.3) million in the first three months of 2012 compared to $(2.6) million in the first three months of 2011. Significant components of the changes in assets and liabilities included a $3.5 million increase in accounts receivable during the first three months of 2012 compared to an increase of $1.3 million in the first three months of 2011, caused by lower cash collections in the quarter as compared to billings; an increase in prepaids and other current assets of $1.5 million in 2012 as compared with an increase of $0.6 million in 2011, primarily caused by tax and benefits-related receivables; and a slight decrease in other liabilities, primarily deferred rent, in 2012 as compared with an increase of $0.4 million in 2011. These changes were offset in part by an increase in deferred revenue of $1.7 million in 2012 compared to an increase of $0.6 million in 2011. Additionally, there was a $0.5 million increase in net income (loss) adjusted for non-cash related items. 28 Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities in the three months ended March 31, 2012, net of investment activity, was $1.5 million for the purchase of property and equipment made up primarily of website development costs, computer equipment and related software and internal-use development costs. Equity Financing Activities We received proceeds from the exercise of stock options in the amounts of $0.5 million and $0.6 million in the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Term Loan and Credit Facility Borrowings In August 2006, we entered into a credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) with a commercial bank, which included a $10.0 million term loan (the Term Loan) and a $20.0 million revolving credit facility (the Revolving Credit Facility). The Credit Agreement was amended in August 2007, in December 2008, in December 2009 and again in August 2011. The amendment in 2009 reduced the Revolving Credit Facility to $5.0 million. We paid off the remaining balance of the Term Loan in December 2009. The amendment in August 2011 extended the term of the facility and adjusted certain other financial terms and covenants. The Revolving Credit Facility matures on August 31, 2016. Unless earlier payment is required by an event of default, all principal and unpaid interest will be due and payable on August 31, 2016. At our option, the Revolving Credit Facility bears interest at either the prime rate less 1.00% or the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus the applicable LIBOR margin. The applicable LIBOR margin is based on the ratio of total funded debt to EBITDA for the preceding four fiscal quarters. As of March 31, 2012, the applicable LIBOR margin was 1.25%. We are also required to pay an unused line fee on the daily unused amount of our Revolving Credit Facility at a per annum rate based on the ratio of total funded debt to EBITDA for the preceding four fiscal quarters. As of March 31, 2012, unused availability under the Revolving Credit Facility totaled $3.5 million and the per annum unused line fee rate was 0.20%. At March 31, 2012 and 2011 there were no amounts outstanding under this revolving loan agreement. There is a $1.5 million standby letter of credit related to our corporate headquarters lease that is outstanding at March 31, 2012, bringing our available borrowings on the $5.0 million facility to $3.5 million. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement are collateralized by a security interest in substantially all of our assets. Covenants governing the Credit Agreement include the maintenance of certain financial ratios. At March 31, 2012 we were in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreement. Capital Expenditures We have made capital expenditures primarily for computer equipment and related software needed to host our websites, internal-use software development costs, as well as for leasehold improvements and other general purposes to support our growth. Our capital expenditures totaled $1.5 million and $1.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. A majority of our capital expenditures in the first three months of 2012 and 2011 were internal-use development costs and, to a lesser extent, computer equipment and related software. We are not currently party to any purchase contracts related to future capital expenditures. Contractual Obligations and Commitments As of March 31, 2012, our principal commitments consist of obligations under leases for office space. The offices are leased under noncancelable operating lease agreements that expire through 2020. The following table sets forth our commitments to settle contractual obligations in cash as of March 31, 2012: Payments Due By Period Total Less than 1 Year 1 - 3 Years 3 - 5 Years More than 5 Years (Unaudited) ($ in thousands) Operating leases $ 27,534 $ 4,023 $ 6,739 $ 6,905 $ 9,867 At March 31, 2012, we had an irrevocable standby letter of credit outstanding in the aggregate amount of $1.5 million. This letter of credit supports the lease we entered into in 2009 for our corporate headquarters. This letter of credit, subject to certain reductions, extends annually through February 28, 2020 unless notification of termination is received. 29 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for recent accounting pronouncements that could have an effect on us.