Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations or in other filings with the SEC, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and the trading price of our common stock. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to us or that are not currently believed by us to be material may also harm our business operations and financial results. Because of the following risks and uncertainties, as well as other factors affecting our financial condition and operating results, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Because we depend on our ability to generate revenues from the sale and support of purchase intent driven advertising campaigns, fluctuations in advertising spending could have an adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. The primary source of our revenues is the sale and support of purchase intent driven advertising campaigns to our customers. Any reduction in advertising expenditures could have an adverse effect on the Companys revenues and operating results. We believe that advertising spending on the internet, as in traditional media, fluctuates significantly as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Some of these factors include: variations in expenditures by advertisers due to budgetary constraints; the cancellation or delay of projects by advertisers or by one or more significant customers; the cyclical and discretionary nature of advertising spending; the relocation of advertising expenditures to competitors or other media; general global economic conditions and the availability of capital, as well as economic conditions specific to the internet and online and offline media industry; and the occurrence of extraordinary events, such as natural disasters, disease outbreaks (such as the novel coronavirus), acts of terrorism and international or domestic political and economic unrest. We could be negatively impacted by the recent outbreak of the new coronavirus disease (COVID-19). Our business could be adversely impacted by the effects of the spread of coronavirus disease (COVID-19). The extent to which the coronavirus impacts our operations will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted at this time, and include the duration, severity and scope of the outbreak and the actions taken to contain or treat the outbreak. The continued global spread of the coronavirus could materially and adversely impact our operations including, without limitation, our clients implementing policies or procedures to prevent the spread of the virus or otherwise reduce their spending activity as a result of the virus, our employees may experience impacts from illness, travel restrictions, quarantines, school closures, and other community response measures and our vendors, partners and other suppliers may experience disruptions that could impact us. We continue to monitor the situation and may adjust our current policies and practices as more information and guidance become available. Because most of our customers are in the enterprise technology industry, our revenues are subject to characteristics of the enterprise technology industry that can affect advertising spending by B2B technology companies. Because most of our customers are in the enterprise technology industry, the success of our business is closely linked to the health, and subject to market conditions, of the enterprise technology industry. The enterprise technology industry is characterized by, among other things, volatile quarterly results, uneven sales patterns, short product life cycles, rapid technological developments, frequent new product introductions and enhancements and evolving domestic and international laws and regulations, particularly with respect to data privacy and data protection. As a result, our customers advertising budgets, which are often viewed as discretionary expenditures, may increase or decrease significantly over a short period of time. Many of our customers continue to scrutinize their spending on advertising campaigns. Prior market downturns in the enterprise technology industry have resulted in declines in advertising spending, which can cause longer sales cycles, deferral or delay of purchases by B2B technology companies and generally reduced expenditures for advertising and related services. Our revenues and profitability depend on the overall demand for advertising services from our customers. We believe that demand for our offerings has been in the past, and could be in the future, disproportionately affected by fluctuations, disruptions, instability or downturns in the enterprise technology industry, which may cause customers and potential customers to exit the industry or delay, cancel, reduce or reallocate any planned expenditures for our purchase intent data offerings. Any slowdown in the formation of new B2B technology companies or decline in the growth of existing B2B technology companies, may cause a decline in demand for our offerings. 16 In addition, the marketing and advertising budgets of our customers may fluctuate as a result of: weakness in corporate enterprise technology spending, resulting in a decline in enterprise technology marketing and advertising spending, a trend that we have seen in the past and that may continue in the future; increased concentration in the enterprise technology industry as a result of consolidations, leading to a decrease in the number of current and prospective customers, as well as an overall reduction in marketing and advertising spend; reduced spending by combined entities following such consolidations, leading to volume and price compression and loss of revenue: and the timing of marketing and advertising campaigns around new product introductions and initiatives. Our future growth will depend in large part on continued increased sales of our data driven product and services. We sell a suite of data driven products and services, which is based on our Activity Intelligence analytics. Our increase in revenues in the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to the year ended December 31, 2018, was driven in part by an increase in sales of data driven products. We expect that data driven products, as well as the expansion of the features in our current product offerings, will be major components of our future growth. The failure of our data driven products to meet anticipated sales levels, our inability to continue to expand our data driven products successfully, or the failure of our current or new products and services to achieve and then maintain widespread customer acceptance could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. In addition, competitors may develop a service or application that is similar to our data driven product suite, which could also result in reduced sales for those product offerings. Our revenues are primarily derived from short-term contracts that may not be renewed. Our customer contracts are primarily short-term, typically six months or less, and are generally subject to termination without substantial penalty by the customer at any time, generally with minimal notice requirements. We cannot assure you that our current customers will fulfill their obligations under their existing contracts, continue to participate in our existing programs beyond the terms of their existing contracts or enter into any additional contracts for new programs that we offer. In addition, our efforts to enter into longer-term arrangements with customers for our IT Deal Alert products and services may not be successful. If a significant number of customers or a few large customers decided not to continue purchasing marketing and advertising services from us, then we could experience a rapid decline in our revenues over a relatively short period of time. Any factors that limit the amount our customers are willing to and do spend on marketing or advertising with us could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we are unable to deliver content and services that attract and retain a critical mass of members, our ability to attract customers may be affected, which could in turn have an adverse effect on our revenues. Our success depends on our continued ability to deliver original and compelling content and services to attract and retain members, as well as our ability to garner a critical mass of members of our websites. Our member base is primarily comprised of corporate enterprise technology and business professionals who demand specialized websites tailored to the sectors of the enterprise technology products for which they are responsible and that they purchase. Our content and services may not generate engagement with our websites or continue to attract and retain a critical mass of members necessary to attract customers and generate revenues consistent with our historical results and expectations of future results. We also may not develop new content or services in a timely or cost-effective manner. Our ability to develop and produce this specialized content successfully is subject to numerous uncertainties, including our ability to: anticipate and respond successfully to rapidly changing enterprise technology developments and preferences to ensure that our content remains timely and interesting to our members; attract and retain qualified editors, writers, freelancers and technical personnel; fund new development for our programs and other offerings; successfully expand our content offerings into new platform and delivery mechanisms; and promote and strengthen the brands of our websites and our name. If we are not successful in maintaining and growing our member base through the deployment of targeted and compelling content, our ability to retain and attract customers may be affected or we may be required to obtain licensed content which may not be at reasonable prices, which could in turn have an adverse effect on our revenues, and operating results. 17 We depend upon internet search engines to attract a significant portion of the visitors to our websites. These visitors can become members, and if we were listed less prominently in search result listings as a result of changes in the search engines algorithms or otherwise, our business and operating results could be harmed. We derive a significant portion of our website traffic from users who search for enterprise technology research and editorial content through internet search engines. A critical factor in attracting members to our websites is whether we are prominently displayed in response to an internet search relating to enterprise technology content. Search result listings are determined and displayed in accordance with a set of formulas or algorithms developed by the particular internet search engine. The algorithms determine the order of the listing of results in response to the users internet search. From time to time, search engines revise their algorithms. In some instances, these modifications may be detrimental and cause our websites to be listed less prominently in unpaid search results or not at all, which will result in decreased traffic from search engine users to our websites. Our websites may also become listed less prominently in unpaid search results, for other reasons, such as search engine technical difficulties, search engine technical changes and changes we make to our websites. In addition, search engines have deemed the practices of some companies to be inconsistent with search engine guidelines and have decided not to list their websites in search result listings at all. Although we could mitigate certain algorithm changes affecting our traffic with increased marketing expenditures, if we are listed less prominently or not at all, in search result listings, traffic to our websites could decline, which could impact our operating results. Increased marketing spend to increase site traffic could also impact our operating results. Further, we use search engine optimization, or SEO, to enhance the visibility of our websites and optimize ranking in search engine results. Our ability to successfully manage our SEO efforts across our owned and operated websites depends on our ability to adapt and respond to changes in search engine algorithms and methodologies and changes in search query trends. If we fail to successfully manage our SEO strategy, our owned and operated websites may receive less favorable placement in organic or paid listings, which would reduce the number of visitors to our sites, decrease conversion rates and repeat business and have a detrimental effect our ability to generate revenue. There are a number of risks associated with our international operations, as well as the expansion of those operations, that could adversely affect our business. The Company derives a significant portion of its revenues from customers with billing addresses outside of the U.S. For the year ended December 31, 2019 approximately 33% of our revenues were derived from international geo-targeted campaigns, which are campaigns that are targeted at members who reside outside of North America. We have offices in the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Singapore and Australia. We also publish websites in Spanish, French, German, Portuguese and Chinese, targeting members worldwide who speak those languages. In addition to many of the same challenges we face domestically, there are additional risks and costs to doing business in international markets, including: limitations on our activities in foreign countries where we have granted rights to existing business partners; the degree to which our foreign-based customers transition from print to online purchase intent data; the adaptation of our websites and purchase intent data programs to meet local needs; our foreign-based competitors having greater resources and more established relationships with local advertisers; more restrictive data privacy and data protection regulation, which may vary by country and for which there may be little, conflicting or no guidance; more restrictive website licensing and hosting requirements, which may result in our websites being blocked, may require changes to how we operate our websites, or may involve regulatory or enforcement actions against us that could be harmful to our business; more extensive labor regulation, which may vary by country; difficulties in staffing and managing multinational operations; difficulties in finding appropriate foreign licensees or joint venture partners; difficulties following changes in local business operations or structure; distance, language and cultural differences in doing business with foreign entities; foreign (and domestic) political and economic uncertainty; less extensive adoption of the internet as an information source and increased restriction on the content of websites; 18 currency exchange-rate fluctuations; and potential adverse tax requirements. Brexit. The United Kingdoms June 2016 referendum, in which voters approved an exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union, commonly referred to as Brexit, resulted in significant general economic uncertainty as well as volatility in global stock markets and currency exchange rate fluctuations. In March 2017, the United Kingdom served notice to the European Council under Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty of its intention to withdraw from the European Union. As of January 30, 2020, the United Kingdoms membership in the European Union was terminated and an eleven month transition period began which will allow time for a free trade agreement to be negotiated. If no agreement can be reached at the end of this transition period, it could mean that the United Kingdom will face tariffs on goods traveling to the EU. Brexit could subject us to new regulatory costs and compliance obligations (including regarding the treatment and transfer of personal data). The full effect of Brexit remains uncertain and depends on any agreements the United Kingdom may make to retain access to the EU market. Moreover, the overall impact of Brexit may create further global economic uncertainty, which may cause a subset of our customers to more closely monitor their costs in the affected region. Our revenue generated from customers who have billing addresses within the United Kingdom was approximately 10% and 12% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. As a result, we may face difficulties and unforeseen expenses in expanding our business internationally and, if we attempt to do so, we may be unsuccessful, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Competition for customers marketing and advertising spending is intense, and we may not compete successfully, which could result in a material reduction in our market share, the number of our customers and our revenues. We compete for potential customers with a number of different types of offerings and companies, including: broadbased media outlets such as television, newspapers and business periodicals that are designed to reach a wide audience; general purpose portals and search engines; and offline and online offerings of media companies that produce content specifically for IT and business professionals, including International Data Group, J2 Global, QuinStreet, Madison Logic, CBS Interactive/CNet and contact providers such as ZoomInfoTechnolgies Inc. Customers may choose our competitors over us not only because they prefer our competitors online offerings to ours but also because customers prefer to utilize other forms of marketing and advertising services offered by our competitors that are not offered by us and/or to diversify their marketing and advertising expenditures. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. They may also offer different pricing than we do, which could be more attractive to customers. Competitors have historically responded, and may continue to respond, to market conditions by lowering prices to try to attract our customers. As a result, we could lose market share to our competitors in one or more of our businesses and our revenues could decline. We may not innovate at a successful pace, which could harm our operating results. Our industry is rapidly adopting new technologies and standards to create and satisfy the demands of users and advertisers. It is critical that we continue to innovate by anticipating and adapting to these changes to ensure that our contentdelivery, demand generation and data driven products and services remain effective and interesting to our members, customers and partners. In addition, we may need to make significant expenditures to achieve these goals. If we fail to accomplish these goals, we may lose members and the customers that seek to reach those members, which could harm our operating results. Existing and planned efforts to develop new products, including any subscription-based offerings, may be costly and ultimately not successful. We may be unable to continue to build awareness of our brands, which could negatively impact our business and cause our revenues to decline. Building and maintaining recognition of our brands is critical to attracting and retaining our member base. We intend to continue to build existing brands and introduce new brands that will resonate with our targeted audiences. In order to promote our brands, we may find it necessary to increase our marketing budget, hire additional marketing and public relations personnel or otherwise increase our financial commitment to creating and maintaining brand loyalty among our customers. If we fail to promote and maintain our brands effectively, or incur excessive expenses attempting to promote and maintain our brands, our business and financial results may suffer. If we do not retain our key personnel, our ability to execute our business strategy will be adversely affected. Our continued success depends to a significant extent upon the recruitment, retention and effective succession of our executive officers and key management. Our management team has significant industry experience and would be difficult to replace. These individuals possess sales, marketing, financial and administrative skills that are critical to the operation of our business. The competition for these employees is intense. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. 19 We may not be able to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel cost-effectively, which could impact the quality of our content and services and the effectiveness and efficiency of our management, resulting in increased costs and losses in revenues. Our success depends on our ability to attract, hire and retain qualified technical, editorial, sales and marketing, customer support, financial and accounting and other managerial personnel at commercially reasonable rates. The competition for personnel in the industries in which we operate is intense. Our personnel may terminate their employment at any time for any reason. Loss of personnel may also result in increased costs for replacement hiring and training. If we fail to attract and hire new personnel or retain and motivate our current personnel, we may not be able to operate our businesses effectively or efficiently, serve our customers properly or maintain the quality of our content and services. In particular, our success depends in significant part on maintaining and growing an effective sales and customer retentions force. This dependence involves a number of challenges, including the need to hire, integrate, motivate and retain additional sales and sales support personnel and train new sales personnel, many of whom lack sales experience when they are hired, as well as increased competition from other companies in hiring and retaining sales personnel. We may fail to identify or successfully acquire and integrate businesses, products and technologies that would otherwise enhance our product and service offerings to our customers and members, and as a result our revenues may decline or fail to grow. We have acquired, and in the future may acquire or invest in, complementary businesses, products or technologies. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks including: difficulty in assimilating the operations and personnel of acquired businesses; potential disruption of our ongoing businesses and distraction of our management and the management of acquired companies; difficulty in incorporating acquired technology and rights into our offerings and services, which could result in additional expenses and/or technical difficulties in delivering our product offerings; potential failure to achieve additional sales and enhance our customer base through cross-marketing of the combined companys products and services to new and existing customers; potential detrimental impact to our pricing based on the historical pricing of any acquired business with common customers and the market generally; potential litigation resulting from our business combinations or acquisition activities; and potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired businesses. Our inability to integrate any acquired business successfully, or the failure to achieve any expected synergies, could result in increased expenses and a reduction in expected revenues or revenue growth. As a result, our revenues, results of operations or stock price could fluctuate or decline. In addition, we may not be able to identify or successfully complete acquisitions, which could impact our ability to expand into complementary sectors in the future. General domestic and global economic, business or industry conditions and financial market instability may adversely affect our business, as well as our ability to forecast financial results. The U.S. and international economies have experienced inconsistent, unpredictable growth and a certain degree of instability, magnified at times by factors including changes in the availability of credit, volatile business and consumer confidence and unemployment. These and other macroeconomic conditions have contributed to unpredictable changes in the global economy and expectations of future global economic growth. If the economic climate in the U.S. and abroad deteriorates, our customers or potential customers could reduce or delay their purchases of our offerings, which would adversely impact our revenues and our ability to sell our offerings, collect customer receivables and, ultimately, our profitability. Because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth or contraction in the economy generally, and in the IT market specifically, it can be difficult for us to accurately estimate future income and expenditures. We cannot predict the duration of current economic conditions or the duration or strength of an economic recovery in the U.S. or worldwide generally or in the IT industry or in any of its segments. Further adverse changes may occur as a result of global, domestic or regional economic conditions, changing consumer confidence, unemployment, tariffs, declines in stock markets, or other factors affecting economic conditions generally. These changes may negatively affect the sales of our offerings, increase exposure to losses from bad debts, increase the cost and decrease the availability of financing, or increase the risk of loss on investments. Any recent growth we have experienced internationally would be negatively affected by any future global downturn. 20 Risks Related to Data Privacy, Security and Intellectual Property Rights We may have limited protection of our intellectual property rights; which others could infringe. Our success and ability to compete are dependent in part on the strength of our proprietary rights, on the goodwill associated with our trademarks, trade names and service marks, and on our ability to use U.S. and foreign laws to protect them. Our intellectual property includes, among other things, our original content, our editorial features, logos, brands, domain names, the technology that we use to deliver our services, the various databases of information that we maintain and make available by license, and the appearances of our websites. We claim common law protection on certain names and marks that we have used in connection with our business activities. Although we have applied for and obtained registration of some of our marks in the U.S. and other countries where we do business, we have not been able to obtain registration of all of our key marks in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions due to prior registration or use by third parties employing similar marks. In addition to U.S. and foreign laws and registration processes, we rely on confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties and other protective contractual provisions to safeguard our intellectual property. Policing our intellectual property rights and identifying infringers worldwide is a difficult task, and even if we are able to identify infringers, we may not be able to stop them from infringing our intellectual property. We cannot be certain that third-party licensees of our content will adequately protect our proprietary rights. Intellectual property laws and our agreements may not be sufficient to prevent others from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our content or technologies. In addition, others may develop non-infringing technologies that are similar or superior to ours. In seeking to protect our marks, copyrights, domain names and other proprietary rights, we could face costly litigation and the diversion of our managements attention and resources. Furthermore, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights is still evolving. Therefore, we might be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that infringe or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Any impairment in the value of these important assets could cause our stock price to decline. 21 We could be subject to claims from third parties based on the content on our websites created by us and third parties. These claims could result in costly litigation, payment of damages or the need to revise the way we conduct our business. We could be subject to infringement claims from third parties, which may or may not have merit. Due to the nature of content published on our online network, including content placed on our online network by third parties, and as a creator and distributor of original content and research, we face potential liability based on a variety of theories, including defamation, libel, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, or other legal theories based on the nature, creation or distribution of this information. Such claims may also include, among others, claims that by providing hypertext links to websites operated by third parties, we are liable for wrongful actions by those third parties through these websites. Similar claims have been brought, and sometimes successfully asserted, against online services. It is also possible that our members could make claims against us for losses incurred in reliance on information provided on our networks. In addition, we could be exposed to liability in connection with material posted to our internet sites by third parties. For example, many of our sites offer members an opportunity to post comments and opinions that are not moderated. Some of this member-generated content may infringe on third-party intellectual property rights or privacy rights or may otherwise be subject to challenge under copyright laws. Such claims, whether brought in the U.S. or abroad, could divert management time and attention away from our business and result in significant cost to investigate and defend, regardless of the merit of these claims. In addition, if we become subject to these types of claims and are not successful in our defense, we may be forced to pay substantial damages. These claims could also result in the need to develop alternative trademarks, content or technology or to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements. Our insurance may not adequately protect us against these claims. The filing of these claims may also damage our reputation as a high-quality provider of unbiased, timely analysis and result in customer cancellations or overall decreased demand for our services. We may not have, in all cases, conducted formal evaluations of our content, technology and services to determine whether they expose us to any liability of the sort described above. As a result, we cannot be certain that our technology, offerings, services or online content do not or will not infringe upon the intellectual property or other rights of third parties. If we were found to have infringed on a third partys intellectual property rights or otherwise found liable for damages as a result of such claims, the value of our brands and our business reputation could be impaired, and our business could suffer. Changes in laws and standards relating to marketing, data collection and use, and the privacy of internet users could impact our ability to conduct our business and thereby decrease our marketing and advertising service revenues while imposing significant compliance costs on the Company. We use e-mail as a significant means of communicating with our members. The laws and regulations governing the use of e-mail for marketing purposes continues to evolve, and the growth and development of the market for commerce over the internet may lead to the adoption of additional legislation and/or changes to existing laws. If new laws or regulations are adopted, or existing laws and regulations are interpreted and/or amended or modified to impose additional restrictions on our ability to send e-mail to our members or potential members, we may not be able to communicate with them in a cost-effective manner. In addition to legal restrictions on the use of e-mail, internet service providers and others typically attempt to block the transmission of unsolicited e-mail, commonly known as spam. If an internet service provider or software program identifies e-mail from us as spam, we could be placed on a restricted list that would block our e-mail to members or potential members who maintain e-mail accounts with these internet service providers or who use these software programs. If we are unable to communicate by e-mail with our members and potential members as a result of legislation, blockage or otherwise, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. We collect information from those who visit or register as members on our websites, co-branded sites, or for services, respond to surveys or, in some cases, view our content. Subject to each members permission (or right to decline, which we refer to as an opt-out, a practice that may differ across our various websites, depending on the applicable needs and requirements of different countries laws), we may use this information to inform our members of services that they have indicated may be of interest to them. We may also share this information with our customers for members who have elected to receive additional promotional materials and have expressly or implicitly granted us permission to share their information with third parties. We also collect information on our members based on their activity on our sites. The U.S. federal government and certain states have adopted or proposed limitations on the collection, distribution and use of personal information of internet users. Although, to date, our efforts to comply with applicable federal and state laws and regulations have not hurt our business, additional, more burdensome laws or regulations, including more restrictive consumer privacy and data security laws, could be enacted or applied to us or our customers. Such laws or regulations could impair our ability to collect member information that helps us to provide more targeted content to our website visitors and members and detailed lead data to our customers, thereby impairing our ability to maintain and grow our audience and maximize revenue from our customers. Additionally, the FTC and many state attorneys general are applying federal and state consumer protection laws to require that the online collection, use and dissemination of data, and the presentation of website content, comply with certain standards for notice, choice, security and access. Courts may also adopt these developing standards. In many cases, the specific limitations imposed by these standards are subject to interpretation by courts and other governmental authorities. A few states have also introduced legislation that, if enacted, would restrict or prohibit behavioral 22 marketing and advertising within the state. In the absence of a federal law pre-empting their enforcement, such state l egislation would likely have the practical effect of regulating behavioral marketing and advertising nationwide because of the difficulties behind implementing state-specific policies or sending targeted advertising to individuals based on their perceived commercial interests . In the event of additional legislation in this area, our ability to effectively target our website visitors and members may be limited. We believe that we are in compliance with applicable consumer protection laws, but a determination by a state or federal agency or court that any of our practices do not meet these laws and regulations could create liability to us, result in adverse publicity and affect negatively our businesses. New interpretations of these standards could also requir e us to incur additional costs and restrict our business operations. The EU and its member states, California and Canada have regulations dealing with the collection and use of personal information obtained from their citizens. Regulations in these jurisdictions have focused on the collection, processing, transfer, use, disclosure and security of information that may be used to identify or that actually identifies an individual, such as a name, e-mail address or online identifier (such as an IP address in certain cases). These laws also provide consumers the right to access the information a company has collected on them, correct it, request that it be deleted, or to stop the sale of such information to third parties. The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) became effective in May 2018 and was designed to, among other things, harmonize disparate data privacy laws found across Europe. GDPR implemented more rigorous principles relating to the data privacy and data protection, including, among other things, enhanced disclosure requirements regarding how personal information is obtained, used, and shared, limitations on the purpose and storage of personal information, mandatory data breach notification requirements and enhanced standards for data controllers to demonstrate that they have obtained valid consent for certain data processing activities. Its application and scope are extensive and penalties for non-compliance are significant, including fines of up to 20 million Euros or 4% of total worldwide revenue. In the event the Company is deemed not in compliance with GDPR, or fails to maintain compliance, then the Company would be exposed to material damages, costs and/or fines if an EU regulator or EU resident commenced an action. Failure to comply or maintain compliance could cause considerable harm to us and our reputation (including requiring notification to customers, regulators, and/or members), cause a loss of confidence in our services, and deter current and potential customers from using our services. Further, the presidency of the council of the EU released a revised draft of the pending Proposal for Regulation on Privacy and Electronic Communications (ePrivacy Regulation) which will replace the ePrivacy Directive and is intended to align with the overall EU data privacy and protection framework, including GDPR. The ePrivacy Regulation was defeated by the council of the EU, but it is expected to be proposed again. The ePrivacy Regulation could disrupt the Companys ability to use or transfer data or to market and sell its products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Our customers may implement compliance measures that do not align with our services, which could limit the scope and delivery of services we are able to provide. Our customers may also require us to take on additional privacy and security obligations, causing us to incur potential disruption and expense related to our business processes. If our policies and practices, or those of our customers, are, or are perceived to be, insufficient or if our members, website visitors or customers have concerns regarding our data privacy and data protection practices, particularly with respect to GDPR or the pending ePrivacy Regulation, then we could be subject to enforcement actions or investigations by regulators or lawsuits by private parties, member engagement could decline and our business could be negatively impacted. For certain data transfers and processing activities between the EU and the U.S., many companies previously relied on the Department of Commerce Safe Harbor Principles (Safe Harbor) and self-certification process in order to lawfully transfer and process the personal data of people in the EU to the U.S. in a manner that the EU deemed adequate to protect the security of such information. On October 6, 2015, the European Court of Justice declared that Safe Harbor was no longer valid. U.S. and EU lawmakers in February 2016 announced a replacement for Safe Harbor, called the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework Principles (the EU Privacy Shield). On July 12, 2016, the European Commission deemed the EU-US Privacy Shield adequate to enable data transfers of personal data from the EU to the U.S. Similarly, a new Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield (the Swiss Privacy Shield) was announced in January 2017, replacing the former Swiss-U.S. Safe Harbor, enabling data transfers of personal data from Switzerland to the U.S. The Company self-certified to the EU Privacy Shield and Swiss Privacy Shield on February 10, 2017 and April 2, 2018, respectively. Such regulatory frameworks are currently in litigation before the European Court of Justice, and any changes in the frameworks may impact our business. Failure to comply with these privacy shield principles by companies who self-certify compliance to the U.S. Department of Commerce is enforceable by the FTC. If we are found to be out of compliance, we could be subject to enforcement actions or investigations by regulators, member engagement could decline and our business could be negatively impacted. In order to continue receiving personal data from the United Kingdom in reliance on the EU Privacy Shield following Brexit, the Company may be required to meet standards for cross-border transfer imposed by the UK itself. 23 Our digital properties collect and use data about our website visitors and members online behavior, and the revenue associated with this activity could be impacted by government regulation and enforcement, industry trends, self-regulation, technology changes, consumer behavior and attitude, and private action. We also use such information to call website visitors and members who have provided their telephone numbers to be enrolled as a member (for free). Our p artners may then follow-up to try to sell products or services to such individuals. We also work with our partners to deliver targeted advertisements based on members and website visitors perceived commercial interests. Many of our users voluntarily provide us with contact and other information when they visit our websites. We may utlize data from third-party sources to augment our user profiles and marketing databases so we are better able to personalize content, enhance our analytical capabilities, better target our marketing programs, and better qualify leads for our partners. If changes in user sentiment regarding the sharing of information results in a significant number of visitors to our websites refusing to provide us with contact and other information, our ability to personalize content for our users and provide targeted marketing solutions for our partners would be impaired. If our users choose to opt-out of having their data used for behavioral targeting, it would be more difficult for us to offer targeted marketing programs for our partners. If we are unable to acquire data from third-party sources for whatever reason, or if there is a marked increase in the cost of obtaining such data, our ability to personalize content and provide marketing solutions could be negatively impacted. T he use of such consumer data by online service providers and advertising networks is a topic of active interest among federal, state, and international regulatory bodies, as well as self-regulatory organizations, and the regulatory environment is unsettled. Federal, state, and international laws and regulations govern the collection, use, retention, disclosure, sharing and security of data that we receive from and about our website visitors and members through cookies and other similar technologies. Our privacy policies and practices concerning the collection, use, and disclosure of user data are posted on our websites. There are new and expanding proposals for laws and regulations regarding Do Not Track requirements that protect users right to choose whether or not to be tracked online. These proposals seek, among other things, to allow consumers to have greater control over the use of private information collected online, to forbid the collection or use of online information, to demand a business to comply with their choice to opt out of such collection or use, and to place limits upon the disclosure of information to third party websites. Any such laws and regulations could have a significant impact on the operation of our advertising and data businesses. U.S. regulatory agencies have also placed an increased focus on online privacy matters and, in particular, on online advertising activities that utilize cookies or other tracking tools. Consumer and industry groups have expressed concerns about online data collection and use by companies, which has resulted in the release of various industry self-regulatory codes of conduct and best practice guidelines that are binding for member companies engaged in online behavioral advertising (OBA) and similar activities. These codes of conduct and best practice guidelines govern, among other things, the ways in which companies can collect, use and disclose user information for OBA purposes, how companies must give notice of these practices, and what choices companies must provide to consumers regarding these practices. We may be required or otherwise choose to adopt Do Not Track mechanisms, and we may be required to abide by certain self-regulatory principles promulgated by the Digital Advertising Alliance and others for OBA and similar activities, in which case our ability to use our existing tracking technologies, to collect and sell user behavioral data, and permit their use by other third parties could be impaired. This could cause our net revenues to decline and adversely affect our operating results. We believe that we are in material compliance with all laws, regulations and self-regulatory regimes that are applicable to us. However, as referenced above, these laws, regulations, and self-regulatory regimes may be modified, and new laws may be enacted in the future that may apply to us and affect our business. Further, data protection authorities may interpret existing laws in new ways. We may deploy new products and services from time to time, which may also require us to change our compliance practices. Any such developments (or developments stemming from enactment or modification of other laws) or the failure to anticipate accurately the application or interpretation of these laws could create liability for us, result in adverse publicity, increase our future compliance costs, make our products and services less attractive to our members and customers, or cause us to change or limit our business practices, and materially affect our business and operating results. Further, any failure on our part to comply with any relevant laws or regulations may subject us to significant civil, criminal or contractual liabilities. Increased exposure from loss of personal, confidential, and/or proprietary information due to our cybersecurity systems or the systems of our customers, vendors, or partners being breached could cause us to incur significant legal and financial exposure and liability, and materially adversely affect our business, operating results and reputation. We currently retain personal, confidential, and/or proprietary information relating to our members, employees, and customers in secure database servers. Our industry is prone to cyber-attacks by third parties seeking access to our data or data we have collected from website visitors and members, or to disrupt our ability to provide service. We have experienced and will continue to experience cyber-attacks targeting our database servers and information systems. Cyber-attacks may involve viruses, malware, ransomware, distributed denial-of-service attacks, phishing or other forms of social engineering (predominantly spear phishing attacks), and other methods seeking to gain unlawful access. We may not be able to prevent unauthorized access to these secure database servers and 24 information systems as a result of these third-party actions, including intentional misconduct by criminal organizations and hackers or as a result of employee error, malfeasance or otherwise. A security breach could result in intentional m alfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment, the misappropriation of personal, confidential and/or proprietary information, disruptions in our service, and in the unauthorized access to our customers data or o ur data, including intellectual property, business opportunity, and other confidential business information. Additionally, third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce our employees, vendors, or customers into disclosing access credentials such as user names, passwords or keys in order to gain access to our database servers and information systems. Our online networks could also be affected by cyber-attacks, and we could inadvertently transmit viruses across our networks to our members or other third parties. Cyber-attacks continue to evolve in sophistication and volume, and inherently may be difficult to detect for long periods of time. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect our data and user data, to prevent data loss, to disable undesirable accounts and activities on our platform, and to prevent or detect security breaches, we cannot assure that such measures will provide absolute security, and we may incur significant costs in protecting against or remediating cyber-attacks. Providing unimpeded access to our online networks is critical to engaging with our website visitors and members and providing superior service to our customers. Our inability to provide continuous access to our online networks could cause some of our customers to discontinue purchasing marketing and advertising programs and services and/or prevent or deter our members from accessing our networks. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against cyber-attacks. We cannot assure that any contractual provisions attempting to limit our liability in these areas will be successful or enforceable, or that our customers or other parties will accept such contractual provisions as part of our agreements. Many states and foreign jurisdictions in which we operate have enacted laws and regulations that require us to notify members, website visitors, customers and, in some cases, governmental authorities and credit bureaus, in the event that certain personal information is accessed, or believed to have been accessed, without authorization. Certain regulations also require proscriptive policies to protect against such unauthorized access. Additionally, increasing regulatory demands are requiring us to provide heightened protection of personal information to prevent identity theft and the disclosure of sensitive information. Should we experience a loss of personal, confidential, and/or proprietary information, then efforts to regain compliance and address penalties imposed by contractual provisions or governmental authorities could increase our costs significantly. Our business, which is dependent on centrally located communications and computer hardware systems, is vulnerable to natural disasters, telecommunication and systems failures, terrorism and other problems, as well as disruption due to maintenance or high volume, all of which could reduce traffic on our networks or websites and result in decreased capacity for marketing and advertising space. Our operations are dependent on our communications systems and computer hardware, all of which are located in data centers operated by third parties. These systems could be damaged by natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, viruses, hacking and similar events outside of our control. Our insurance policies have limited coverage levels for loss or damages in these events and may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur. In addition, terrorist acts or acts of war may cause harm to our employees or damage our facilities, our customers, our customers customers and vendors which could adversely impact our revenues, costs and expenses and financial position. We are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions to our systems or cancellations of events caused by terrorist acts and acts of war. Our ability to attract and maintain relationships with our members, customers and strategic partners depends on the satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our internet infrastructure. Our internet marketing and advertising revenues relate directly to the number of advertisements and other marketing opportunities delivered to our members. System interruptions or delays that result in the unavailability of internet sites or slower response times for members would reduce the number of advertising impressions and leads delivered. This could reduce our revenues as the attractiveness of our sites to members and advertisers decreases. Our insurance policies provide only limited coverage for service interruptions and may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to any failures or interruptions in our systems. Further, we do not have multiple site capacity for all of our services in the event of any such occurrence. 25 In addition, our networks and websites must accommodate a high volume of traffic and deliver frequently updated information. They h ave experienced, and may experience in the future, slower response times due to higher than expected traffic, or decreased traffic, for a variety of reasons. There have been instances where our online networks as a whole, or our websites individually, have been inaccessible. Also, slower response times, which have occurred more frequently, can result from general internet problems, routing and equipment problems involving third-party internet access providers, problems with third-party advertising servers, increased traffic to our servers, viruses and other security breaches that are out of our control. In addition, our members depend on internet service providers and online service providers for access to our online networks or websites. Those providers hav e experienced outages and delays in the past and may experience outages or delays in the future. Moreover, our internet infrastructure might not be able to support continued growth of our online networks or websites. Any of these problems could result in l ess traffic to our networks or websites or harm the perception of our networks or websites as reliable sources of information. Less traffic on our networks and websites or periodic interruptions in service could have the effect of reducing demand for marke ting and advertising on our networks or websites, thereby reducing our revenues. Our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to the internet by us and our members. If government regulations relating to the internet change, internet access providers may be able to block, degrade, or charge for access to certain of our products and services, which could lead to additional expenses and the loss of customers. Our products and services depend on the ability of our members to access the internet. Currently, this access is provided by companies that have significant market power in the broadband and internet access marketplace, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies, and government-owned service providers. Some of these providers have taken, or have stated that they may take measures, including legal actions, that could degrade, disrupt, or increase the cost of member access to our advertisements or our third-party publishers advertisements by restricting or prohibiting the use of infrastructure to support or facilitate our offerings, or by charging increased fees to us or our members to provide our offerings. On December 14, 2017, the Federal Communications Commission voted to repeal the net neutrality rules which were intended, in part, to prevent network operators from discriminating against legal traffic that traverses their networks. It is unclear whether or if such a repeal will be subject to challenge or preemption if the U.S. Congress passes new laws regarding net neutrality. In addition, as we expand internationally, government regulations concerning the internet, in particular net neutrality, may be nascent or non-existent. This regulatory environment, coupled with the potentially significant political and economic power of local network operators, could cause us to experience discriminatory or anti-competitive practices that could impede our growth, cause us to incur additional expense, or otherwise negatively affect our business. Such interference could result in a loss of existing customers, and increased costs, and could impair our ability to attract new customers, thereby harming our revenues and growth. Risks Related to Our Financial Statements and General Corporate Matters If we do not maintain proper and effective disclosure