Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsKey Operating Metrics and Non-GAAP Financial Measures. 7 Table of Contents What We Do We enable work by connecting job seekers and employers in our marketplace. How We Work for Employers Our technology delivers high-quality matches to our employers immediately after a job goes live and provides tools to streamline the candidate selection process. Quality Candidates Fast Instant alerts to qualified potential candidates. When employers post a job, ZipRecruiters matching technology immediately identifies and sends an alert to strong-fit job seekers in our marketplace. Direct recruitment messages from the employer. Immediately after a job is posted, ZipRecruiters matching technology presents the employer with a list of the best potential candidates in the market. The employer can then, with a single click, personally invite the most qualified potential candidates to apply. These recruitment messages directly from the employer drive the highest rated candidates ever delivered through ZipRecruiter. Matching that learns. When an employer gives an applicant a thumbs up rating, our technology searches for other job seekers with similar profiles to that candidate and proactively encourages them to apply. Our matching will continue to improve over time as we collect more data and our technology applies the learnings embedded in the data. Job distribution. Our employers jobs are posted not only across ZipRecruiters online sites and mobile apps but are also distributed to well over 1,000 sites managed by our Job Distribution Partners. Job Distribution Partners are third-party sites who have a relationship with us and advertise jobs from our marketplace, and include job boards, newspaper classifieds, search engines, social networks, talent communities and resume services. The diversity and depth of our partner network enables employers to reach an especially broad job seeker audience. Access to an expansive database of job seekers. We provide employers the ability to search through our database of job seekers who have broad skill sets and a range of experiences. Efficient Candidate Vetting All the applicants in one place.For employers who do not already have an established process to manage hiring, job applicants are captured inside the ZipRecruiter Applicant Tracking System, or ATS. Our ATS centralizes and simplifies the decision-making process. Inside this system, hiring teams can review, rate, manage the status of, and ultimately decide which candidate to hire. For employers already using certain third-party ATSs, we seamlessly populate candidates into their existing workflow. Great Matches. Our technology labels candidates identified as a Great Match to help hiring managers avoid missing high-quality candidates. In-demand candidate alerts. We apply an Act Fast! label to notify employers when their candidates have received interest from other employers, encouraging them to reach out quickly. In a tight, competitive market for top-quality talent, these notifications prompt hiring managers to move quickly to avoid losing out on a potentially great hire. Face-to-face interactions. Our product allows employers to schedule interviews with candidates vetted by our matching technology within hours of posting a job, shortening the time it takes to find and hire great talent. 8 Table of Contents Flexible Pricing Flexible pricing based on customer needs. We provide a variety of pricing plans to best suit an employers specific needs, including flat rate pricing on terms typically ranging from a day to a year, as well as performance-based pricing for employers that run sophisticated recruitment marketing campaigns. How We Work for Job Seekers For job seekers, we make finding work easier. Process Efficiency Search millions of jobs in one place. ZipRecruiter provides job seekers with access to millions of jobs from all over the internet. Job seekers can filter this vast array of opportunities by using numerous criteria to find the handful of best potential matches on our website or in our mobile app. Simple, one-click applications.On ZipRecruiter, job seekers create a profile and can then apply for certain opportunities with a single click. Our one-click application technology works across both our marketplace and certain Job Distribution Partners to remove barriers between a job seeker and their next opportunity. This is particularly useful for job seekers on mobile devices where a resume cant be easily created or uploaded. Job application tracking. Job seekers typically apply to numerous opportunities throughout the course of their search. Our simple, user-friendly dashboard aggregates their application history so job seekers can track opportunities they have reviewed or applied to. Personalized Recruiter Assistance Phil, your (automated) career advisor. Our automated career advisor Phil welcomes job seekers to our marketplace and engages with them throughout their onboarding and job seeking journeys. Through Phil, job seekers are presented with curated opportunities for which they might be a Great Match. Phil provides positive, personalized messages to candidates, inviting them to apply for new open positions. Through repeated interaction throughout the ZipRecruiter job seeker experience, Phil learns about each job seeker and is able to deliver better matches and recommendations. Pitched to employers as a potential candidate. After a new job is posted,ZipRecruiters matching technology immediately presents strong-fit in-market job seekers to the employer for consideration. Employers can then directly invite the job seekers they like best to apply. Candidates receive inbound requests from interested employers before applying or even actively searching. While job seekers typically do not like the process of applying to jobs, the feeling of affirmation from being recruited to a particular job drives greater engagement. Job alerts. ZipRecruiter delivers a digest of relevant new opportunities from across the web on a frequent basis, enabling job seekers to monitor the full breadth of our marketplace offerings. Application updates.Our technology notifies job seekers when an employer either views their application or gives them a thumbs up rating. This addresses a primary complaint we hear from job seekers: applying to a job and then hearing nothing back. 9 Table of Contents Our Strengths Our core competitive advantages that have been critical to our success include: Large and proprietary data set. We capture billions of user interactions facilitated by our marketplace. Going far beyond the resume, job description and job search history, we observe how job seekers interact with every job and how employers engage with every job seeker in our marketplace. Leading edge AI-powered matching technology. Our purpose-built technology captures insights from our proprietary data set, driving meaningful increases in match quality over time. Powerful network effects. More jobs, more job seekers and better matching technology over time create more high-velocity hiring activity in our marketplace, fueling a self-perpetuating cycle of network effects. Best products for job seekers. Job seekers love our #1 rated job search app1. Phil, our AI-powered career advisor, gets to know each individual job seeker, helping them discover new opportunities and stand out to employers. Our brand. Since our founding, we have invested to build the ZipRecruiter brand to 80% aided brand awareness among U.S. employers and job seekers. Flexible business model.Our sales and marketing spend is highly variable, allowing us to quickly align investment with a changing macroeconomic backdrop. We respond to employer and job seeker acquisition opportunities quickly, taking advantage where we see great returns on investment. Designed for simplicity and speed. We thrive on taking unnecessarily complex processes and simplifying them. This product design philosophy permeates our entire company. We focus on continually making ZipRecruiter faster and simpler for employers and job seekers to use. Metrics-driven culture. We are a metrics and data-driven company. We are disciplined about setting quantitative operating goals and then finding innovative ways to achieve those goals. Our Competition Hiring is a vast, competitive, and highly fragmented market. We compete in varying degrees with other online job sites including CareerBuilder and Monster, Craigslist, Glassdoor, Indeed, LinkedIn and hundreds of others. Competition for Employers Employers have a range of options when posting job opportunities. We compete to attract and retain employers to advertise their jobs in our marketplace. We compete for employers based on several factors including the pricing and features of our offerings, the speed of receiving great candidates, the size of our job seeker community, the simplicity of our user experience, and our trusted brand. We believe that our employers are able to cost-effectively attract the right job seekers in our marketplace compared to other online recruiting sites and traditional offline recruiting service providers due to the combination of the strength of our job seeker community and our proven matching technology that continues to get smarter over time. 1 Based on job seeker app ratings as of January 2025 from AppFollow for ZipRecruiter, CareerBuilder, Glassdoor, Indeed, LinkedIn, and Monster. 10 Table of Contents Competition for Job Seekers Job seekers have a variety of choices when searching for their next great job opportunity. We compete for job seekers on many fronts, including our ability to surface unique and attractive jobs, our ability to simplify the search process, the transparent feedback job seekers receive on the status of their applications, and our trusted brand. Our marketplace is free to job seekers. We believe our offering to job seekers compares favorably to alternatives due to the combination of our large and unique pool of job opportunities, and the personalized job seeker experience facilitated by our AI-powered career advisor named Phil. Our Employees and Human Capital Resources As of December 31, 2024, we employed 1,000 individuals across the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada and Israel. We also engage independent contractors and consultants. We have efficiently operated and adapted as a remote and hybrid workforce since the beginning of 2020; however, we maintain office spaces for in-person work in Santa Monica, California, Palo Alto, California, Phoenix, Arizona, London, the United Kingdom, and Tel Aviv, Israel. Collectively, we view our team as our greatest asset, and we take great pride in having been recognized by companies such as Comparably and Newsweek for various awards including Best Company Culture, Best Place to Work, and Newsweeks Top 100 Most Loved Workplaces to name a few. Several aspects of how we operate our business have been critical to building our team: We use ZipRecruiter. We utilize the power of the marketplace we have built to connect to our next great employees. We foster an entrepreneurial culture of safety and innovation. We believe a safe, professional environment empowers people to take risks and be their best selves. Our employees are encouraged to champion great ideas, embrace innovative approaches and use data to advocate for their point of view. We embrace inclusion and belonging. We believe our company is strengthened by a culture that embraces inclusion. We create a safe space for all employees to feel heard, included and like they belong. Our employee-led and executive-sponsored Employee Resource Groups are highly active and create communities for employees, regardless of background, to engage in. Our commitment to inclusion and belonging is aligned with our mission to actively connect people from all backgrounds to their next great opportunity. We reward high performance. We focus on attracting and retaining results-oriented employees who are passionate about our mission. We use a variety of compensation tools to recruit, retain and reward employees whose achievements exceed our high expectations. We are committed to our employees career development. We invest in our people so that ZipRecruiter is not just a great place to work, but also a great place to advance and grow a rewarding career. Over half of our leadership positions are held by people who grew internally at ZipRecruiter, demonstrating our dedication to fostering a culture of professional growth and development. Our Technology Our research and development efforts are focused on delivering great products through data driven systems, machine learning technology, and robust infrastructure to ensure that our marketplace is sophisticated, low latency, resilient, and available to our users at all times. Our research and development organization is built around small, cross-functional development teams. These development teams foster greater agility, which enables us to develop new, innovative product features as well as iterate quickly on new capabilities and optimizations. Our development teams 11 Table of Contents design, build and continue to expand our ATS, mobile apps, data processing and analysis pipelines, marketplace functionality, search and matching, email and messaging, and third-party product integrations as well as the software infrastructure that supports best practices such as high frequency deployment, orchestrating containers, and leveraging open-source technologies. Our systems are currently operated entirely on cloud services. We have engineers, product managers and data scientists in the United States, Israel, the United Kingdom, and Canada. We intend to continue to invest in our technology capabilities as we further build out a category-defining marketplace for job seekers and employers. Regulatory Matters We are subject to many varying laws and regulations in the United States, Canada, the European Union, the United Kingdom, Israel and throughout the world, including those related to privacy, data protection, AI (including machine learning), content regulation, intellectual property, consumer protection, e-commerce, marketing, advertising, messaging, rights of publicity, health and safety, employment and labor, product liability, accessibility, competition, and taxation. These laws and regulations are constantly evolving and may be interpreted, applied, created, or amended in a manner that could harm or require us to change our current or future business and operations. In addition, it is possible that certain governments may seek to block or limit our products and services or otherwise impose other restrictions that may affect the accessibility or usability of any or all of our products and services for an extended period of time or indefinitely. Data Privacy and Security Laws We receive, collect, use, store, transfer, and process the personal information of job seekers, employers and other users of our website and services, our employees, service provider representatives and others across the world. We are therefore subject to various federal, state and international laws and regulations relating to the privacy, security and protection of personal information in the United States, Canada, the European Union, the United Kingdom, Israel, and throughout the world. These laws often require companies to implement specific information security controls to protect certain types of personal information and/or impose specific requirements relating to the collection or processing of such information, and we have implemented different security measures, policies and processes designed to protect such information. At a federal level in the United States, our processing of personal information is primarily regulated through the Federal Trade Commission Act, and numerous states have implemented their own comprehensive data privacy laws (e.g., the California Consumer Privacy Act) or have pending data privacy legislation which impose additional obligations and restrictions. Canadas Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act states principles for the businesses to adhere to in processing and storing personal information, and certain Canadian provinces have similar comprehensive privacy laws that apply to companies operating within those provinces. We are also subject to privacy, data protection, and security laws in Europe, including the EU General Data Protection Regulation, the UK General Data Protection Regulation and the UK Data Protection Act. Further, we are subject to laws, rules, regulations, and other obligations regarding cross-border transfers of personal information, including laws relating to the transfer of personal information outside the EEA and the UK, and the use of cookies and e-marketing activities. Privacy and security laws are continuously evolving, and may be interpreted, applied, created or amended in a manner that could harm or require us to change our current or future business and operations. Legal requirements relating to the data privacy and security continue to evolve, and regulatory scrutiny in this area continues to increase around the world as various regulators and lawmakers continue to call for greater regulation of the collection and processing of personal information, as well as restrictions for certain targeted advertising practices. These changes, and the uncertainty created by the continuous evolution of the regulatory environment, implicate aspects of our corporate governance, risk management practices, public 12 Table of Contents disclosures, environmental, social and governance related issues, AI and cybersecurity. For further information on the privacy and security laws that we are subject to, see the risk factor titled Changes in laws or regulations relating to data privacy or the protection, collection, storage, processing, transfer, or use of personal data, or AI, or any actual or perceived failure by us to comply with such laws and regulations or our privacy policies, could adversely affect our business. Seasonality For a discussion of the seasonality of our business, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsFactors Affecting our PerformanceSeasonality. Intellectual Property The protection of our intellectual property and proprietary technologies is an important aspect of our business. We seek to protect our intellectual property rights and proprietary technologies through trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as through confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees, contractors and other third parties with whom we have a relationship in order to control access to, and clarify ownership of, our proprietary intellectual property and information. As of December 31, 2024, ZipRecruiter, Inc. owned three U.S. and 20 international trademark registrations for the trademark ZIPRECRUITER and Poplar Technologies Ltd. had one U.S. trademark application and owned two international trademark registrations for the trademark BREAKROOM. We also own numerous domain names, including www.ziprecruiter.com and www.breakroom.cc. We do not currently own any patents. We consistently review our branding strategies and technology to assess the existence and registrability of new intellectual property. We rely in part on trade secrets and confidential information to develop and maintain our competitive position. We seek to protect our trade secrets and confidential information through a variety of methods, including strict access control procedures and confidentiality agreements with employees, contractors and other third parties who may have access to our proprietary information. We also require employees to sign invention assignment agreements with respect to inventions arising from their employment, and strictly control access to our proprietary technology. Corporate Information We were incorporated in 2010 as ZipRecruiter, Inc., a Delaware corporation. Our website address is www.ziprecruiter.com. The information contained on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not incorporated by reference into, and is not a part of, this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other report or document we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Available Information Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other filings with the SEC, and all amendments to these filings, can be obtained free of charge from our website at www.ziprecruiter-investors.com/financials/sec-filings. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. We also use our Investor Relations page on our website at www.ziprecruiter.com, press releases, public conference calls, public webcasts, X feed (@ZipRecruiter), Facebook page, and LinkedIn page as means of disclosing material information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. The information contained on, or that can be accessed through, any website reference herein is not incorporated by reference into, and is not a part of, this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and the inclusion of such website addresses is as inactive textual references only. Item 1A. Risk Factors 13 Table of Contents Investing in our Class A common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making a decision to invest in our Class A common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we deem immaterial may also become important factors that adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the price of our Class A common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risk Related to Our Business Operational Risks Our business is significantly affected by fluctuations in general economic conditions. There is risk that any economic recovery may be delayed, short-lived and/or uneven, and may not result in increased demand for our services. Our business depends on the overall demand for labor and on the economic health of current and prospective employers and job seekers that use our marketplace. Demand for recruiting and hiring services is significantly affected by the general level of economic activity and employment in the United States and the other countries in which we operate. Any significant weakening of the economy in the United States or the global economy, increased unemployment, reduced credit availability, reduced business confidence and activity, decreased government spending, economic uncertainty, financial turmoil affecting the banking system or financial markets, including actual or perceived instability in the banking industry, trade wars and higher tariffs, volatility in interest rates, inflation in the cost of goods and services including labor, and other adverse economic or market conditions may adversely impact our business and operating results. Significant swings in, or periods of reduced, economic activity historically have had a disproportionately negative impact on hiring activity and related efforts to find candidates. We may also experience more pricing pressure during periods of economic downturn. Economic recoveries are difficult to predict, and may be delayed, short-lived, and/or uneven, with some regions, or countries within a region, continuing to experience declines or weakness in economic activity while others improve. Differing economic conditions and patterns of economic growth or contraction in the geographical regions in which we operate may affect demand for our marketplace. We may not experience uniform, or any, increases in demand for our marketplace within the markets where our business is concentrated. There has been volatility in financial markets as a result of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, banking instability, global conflict, including the wars in Ukraine and the Middle East, inflation, changes in interest rates, and volatile markets. There is a risk that as a result of these macroeconomic factors, we could continue to experience declines in all, or in portions, of our business. Economic uncertainty may cause some of our current or potential employers to curtail spending in our marketplace and may ultimately result in cost challenges to our operations. For example, our employers, including those of our employers that are banks, may be adversely affected by any bank failure or other event affecting financial institutions. Any resulting adverse effects to our employers liquidity or financial performance could reduce the demand for our services or affect our allowance for expected credit losses and collectability of accounts receivable. In addition, any significant changes to U.S. trade policies, treaties or tariffs, or the perception that any of them could occur, may have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets, and may significantly reduce global trade and, in particular, trade between the impacted nations and the United States. These adverse conditions could result in reductions in revenue, increased operating expenses, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies, and increased competition. We cannot predict the timing, strength, or duration of any economic slowdown or any subsequent recovery generally. There is also risk that when overall global economic conditions are positive, our business could be negatively impacted by decreased demand for job postings and our services. If general economic conditions significantly deviate from present levels, our business, financial condition, and operating results could be adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents Substantially all of our revenue is generated by our business operations in the United States. Prior to 2020, the United States had largely experienced positive economic and employment trends since our founding in 2010 and therefore we do not have a significant operating history in periods of weak economic environments and cannot predict how our business will perform in such periods. Any significant economic downturn in the United States or other countries in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face intense competition and could lose market share to our competitors, which could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. We face intense competition from many well-established online job sites such as CareerBuilder and Monster, Craigslist, Glassdoor, Indeed, and LinkedIn, as well as from newer entrants such as Google or Facebook. Many of our existing and potential competitors are considerably larger or more established than we are and have larger workforces and more substantial marketing and financial resources. Price competition for job marketplaces such as ours is likely to remain high, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share, subscriber base, revenue and/or profitability. We also compete with companies that utilize emerging technologies and assets, such as large language models (LLMs), machine learning, and other types of AI. These competitors may offer products and services that may, among other things, provide automated alternatives to the services that employers or job seekers would otherwise seek from ZipRecruiter, use machine learning algorithms to connect employers with job seekers more effectively than we do, or otherwise change the way that employers engage with job seekers or the way job seekers find work so as to make our marketplace less attractive. We may face increased competition from these competitors as they mature and expand their capabilities. Many of our larger competitors have long-standing relationships or access to employers, including our Paid Employers2, as well as those whom we may wish to pursue. Some employers may be hesitant to use a new platform and prefer to upgrade products offered by these incumbent platforms for reasons that include price, quality, sophistication, familiarity, and global presence. These platforms could offer competing products on a standalone basis at a low price or bundled as part of a larger product sale that could be more attractive to employers than our offerings. Many of our competitors are able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale, and support of their products and services. Furthermore, our current or potential competitors may be acquired by third parties with greater available resources and the ability to initiate or withstand substantial price competition. Our competitors may also establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to enhance their product offerings and/or resources. If our competitors products, platforms, services or technologies maintain or achieve greater market acceptance than ours, if they are successful in bringing their products or services to market earlier than ours, or if their products, platforms or services are more technologically capable than ours, then our revenue could be adversely affected. Also, some of our competitors may offer their products and services at a lower price. If we cannot optimize pricing, our operating results may be negatively affected. Pricing pressures and increased competition could result in reduced sales, reduced margins, losses or a failure to maintain or improve our competitive market position, any of which could adversely affect our business. The number of employers distributing their job posting service purchases among a broader group of competitors may increase which may make it more difficult to retain or maintain our current share of business with existing Paid Employers. We also face the risk that employers may decide to provide similar services internally or reduce or redirect their efforts to recruit job seekers through online job advertisements. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter increased competition in the future. 2 Paid Employer(s) means any employer(s) (or entities acting on behalf of an employer) on a paying subscription plan or performance marketing campaign for at least one day. Paid Employer(s) excludes employers from our Job Distribution Partners or other indirect channels, employers who are not actively searching for candidates, but otherwise have access to previously posted jobs, and employers on free trial. 15 Table of Contents Our marketplace functions on software that is highly technical and complex and if it fails to perform properly, our reputation could be adversely affected, our market share could decline and we could be subject to liability claims. Our marketplace functions on software that is highly technical and complex and may now or in the future contain undetected errors, bugs, or vulnerabilities. Some errors in our software code may be discovered only after the code has been deployed. Any errors, bugs, or vulnerabilities discovered in our code after deployment, inability to identify the cause or causes of performance problems within an acceptable period of time, or difficulty maintaining and improving the performance of our marketplace could result in damage to our reputation or brand, loss of employers and job seekers, loss of revenue, or liability for damages, any of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. As the usage of our marketplace grows, we will need an increasing amount of technical infrastructure, including network capacity and computing power, to continue to operate our marketplace. If we cannot continue to effectively scale and grow our technical infrastructure to accommodate these increased demands, it may adversely affect our user experience. We also rely on third-party software and infrastructure, including the infrastructure of the internet, to provide our marketplace. Any failure of or disruption to this software and infrastructure, whether intentionally or unintentionally or due to our activities or those of our vendors or other third parties, could also make our marketplace unavailable to our users. If our marketplace is unavailable to our subscribers or job seekers for any period of time, our business could be adversely affected. Our marketplace technology is constantly changing with new updates, which may contain undetected errors when first introduced or released. Any errors, defects, disruptions in service, or other performance or stability problems with our marketplace, or the insufficiency of our efforts to adequately prevent or timely remedy errors or defects, could result in negative publicity, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our marketplace, loss of competitive position, our inability to timely and accurately maintain our financial records, inaccurate or delayed invoicing of Paid Employers, delay of payment to us, claims by users for losses sustained by them, corrective action taken by gatekeepers of components integral to our marketplace, or investigation and corrective action taken by a regulatory agency. In such an event, we may be required, or may choose, for user relations or other reasons, to expend additional resources to help resolve the issue. Accordingly, any errors, defects, or disruptions in our marketplace could adversely impact our brand and reputation, revenue, and operating results. Because of the large amount of data that our Paid Employers collect and manage by means of our services, it is possible that failures or errors in our systems could result in data loss or corruption, or cause the information that we or our Paid Employers collect to be incomplete or contain inaccuracies that our Paid Employers regard as significant. Furthermore, the availability or performance of our marketplace could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including users inability to access the internet or to send or receive email messages, the failure of our network or software systems, security breaches or variability in user traffic for our services. We may be required to issue credits or refunds for prepaid amounts related to unused services or otherwise be liable to our users for damages they may incur resulting from certain of these events. In addition to potential liability, if we experience interruptions in the availability of our marketplace, our reputation could be adversely affected and we could lose employers and job seekers. Our errors and omissions insurance may be inadequate or may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, our policy may not cover all claims made against us and defending a suit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and divert managements attention. Our future success depends in part on employers purchasing and renewing or upgrading subscriptions and performance-based services from us. Any decline in our user renewals or upgrades or performance-based services could harm our future operating results. 16 Table of Contents Many of our Paid Employers pay for access to our marketplace on a per-job-per-day basis, rather than entering into new longer term paid time-based job posting plans, renewing their paid time-based job posting plans when such contract terms expire, or purchasing performance-based services from us. Employers who enter into paid plans have no obligation to renew their plans after the expiration of their contract period, which typically range from one day to 12 months. In addition, employers may renew for lower subscription amounts or for shorter contract lengths. Historically, some of our Paid Employers have elected not to renew their agreements with us and as we expand into new products and markets, we have a limited ability to reliably predict future renewal rates. Our future renewal rates for both existing and potential new products may be lower, possibly significantly lower, than historical trends. Our future success also depends in part on our ability to sell upsell services to employers who use our marketplace. If employers do not purchase upsell services from us, our revenue may decline and our operating results may be harmed. Our Paid Employer subscription renewals, performance-based services, and upsells may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including user usage, sunsetting, changing, or removing certain products or services, user satisfaction with our services and user support, our prices, the prices of competing services, mergers and acquisitions affecting our user base, the effects of U.S. and global economic conditions, or reductions in our Paid Employers spending levels generally. Significant segments of the market for job advertisement services may have hiring needs and service preferences that are subject to greater volatility than the overall economy. The employers in the United States private sector are diverse across a number of business characteristics, including company size, geography, and industry, among other factors. Hiring activity may vary significantly among businesses with different characteristics and accordingly, any concentration we may have among businesses with certain characteristics may subject us to high volatility in our financial results. Smaller businesses, for example, typically have less persistent hiring needs and may experience greater volatility in their need for job advertisement services and preferences among providers of such services. Along with a relatively shorter sales cycle, smaller businesses may be more likely to change platforms based on short-term differences in perceived price, value, service level, or other factors. Difficulty in acquiring and/or retaining these employers may adversely affect our operating results. Our efforts and ability to sell to a broad mix of businesses could adversely affect our operating results in a given period. Our ability to increase revenue and profitability depends, in part, on widespread acceptance and utilization of our marketplace by businesses of all sizes and types. Because our customers reflect a wide variety of businesses, we face a variety of challenges, including but not limited to, pricing pressure, cost variances and marketing strategies that vary based on the business type and size, varying lengths of sales cycles, and less predictability in completing some of our sales. For example, some of our larger prospective customers may need us to provide greater levels of education regarding the use and benefits of our marketplace and services, because the prospective customers decision to use our marketplace and services may be a company-wide decision. We are in the early stages of developing the analytical tools that will allow us to determine how prospective customers can be most effectively directed within, and addressed by, our sales organizations. As a result, we may not always approach new opportunities in the most cost-effective manner or with the most appropriate resources. Developing and successfully implementing these tools will be important as we seek to efficiently capitalize on new and expanding market opportunities. In addition, because we are a relatively new company with a limited operating history when compared to some of our existing competitors, our target employers and job seekers may prefer to use offerings from more established competitors that are more tailored to their specific requirements. Our business depends largely on our ability to attract and retain talented employees, including senior management and key personnel. If we lose the services of Ian Siegel, our Chief Executive 17 Table of Contents Officer, or other members of our senior management team, we may not be able to execute on our business strategy. Our future success depends in large part on the continued services of our senior management and other key personnel and our ability to retain and motivate them. In particular, we are dependent on the services of Ian Siegel, our Chief Executive Officer, and our technology, marketplace, future vision, and strategic direction could be compromised if he were to take another position, become ill or incapacitated, or otherwise become unable to serve as our Chief Executive Officer. We rely on our leadership team in the areas of marketing, sales, finance, support, product development, human resources, and technology. Our senior management and other key personnel are all employed on an at-will basis, which means that they could terminate their employment with us at any time, for any reason, and without notice. If we lose the services of senior management or other key personnel, or if we cannot attract, train, and retain the highly skilled personnel we need, or if we fail to implement succession plans for such key personnel, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract, train, and retain highly skilled personnel, including software engineers and sales personnel. We face intense competition for qualified personnel from numerous software and other technology companies. This competition for highly skilled personnel is especially intense in the regions where we have significant operations, and we may incur significant costs to attract and retain them. We have, from time to time, experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. We may incur significant costs to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, and we may lose new employees to our competitors or other technology companies before we realize the benefit of our investment in recruiting and training them. In addition, in a tight labor market, we may experience increased difficulty in hiring and retaining, or increased costs in attracting and retaining, highly skilled personnel, or we may lose new employees to our competitors or other technology companies at a greater rate. To the extent we move into new geographies, we would need to attract and recruit skilled personnel in those areas. Moreover, remote work opportunities could negatively impact our ability to recruit or retain talent, particularly in light of our workforce historically being concentrated largely in the Los Angeles and Phoenix metropolitan areas. In addition, job candidates and existing employees often consider the value of the equity awards they receive in connection with their employment. If the perceived value of our equity or equity awards declines, it may adversely affect our ability to retain highly skilled employees. If we cannot attract and retain suitably qualified individuals who are capable of meeting our growing technical, operational, and managerial requirements, on a timely basis or at all, our business may be adversely affected. If internet search engines methodologies or other channels that we use to direct traffic to our website are modified to our disadvantage, or our search result page rankings decline for other reasons, our user growth could decline. We depend in part on various internet search engines, such as Google, as well as other channels to direct a significant amount of traffic to our website. Our ability to maintain the number of visitors directed to our website is not entirely within our control. For example, our competitors search engine optimization and other efforts such as paid search may result in their websites receiving a higher search result page ranking than ours, internet search engines or other channels that we utilize to direct traffic to our website could revise their methodologies in a manner that adversely impacts traffic to our website, or we may make changes to our website that adversely impact our search engine optimization rankings and traffic. As a result, links to our website may not be prominent enough to drive sufficient traffic to our website, and we may not be able to influence the results. Search engines and other channels that we use to drive employers and job seekers to our website periodically change their algorithms, policies, and technologies, sometimes in ways that cause traffic to our website to decline. These changes can also result in an interruption in their ability to access our website or a drop in our search ranking, or have other adverse impacts that negatively affect our ability to maintain and grow the number of employers and job seekers that visit our website. We may also be 18 Table of Contents forced to significantly increase marketing expenditures in the event that market prices for online advertising and paid listings escalate or our organic ranking decreases. Any of these changes could have an adverse impact on our business, user acquisition, and operating results. If we fail to scale our business effectively, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. We have experienced a period of significant growth in recent years and expect to continue to invest strategically across our company to support measured growth, while also scaling back certain areas of our business in response to changing macroeconomic conditions. Although we have experienced rapid growth historically, we may not return to prior growth rates or sustain our growth rates, nor can we assure you that our investments to support our growth or to manage expenses by scaling back other areas of our business will be successful. The effective scaling of our business will place significant demands on our management as well as on our administrative, operational, and financial resources. To manage any future growth effectively, we must continue to improve our operational, financial, and management information systems expand, motivate, and effectively manage and train our workforce and effectively collaborate with our third-party partners. If we cannot manage any future growth successfully, our business, operating results, financial condition, and ability to successfully advertise our marketplace and serve our employers and job seekers could be adversely affected. Over time, we expect to expand our operations and personnel significantly. However, from time to time, we realign our resources and talent to respond to macroeconomic changes and to streamline our organization and optimize our cost structure, including through furloughs, layoffs and reductions in force. For example, in May 2023, in response to current market conditions and after reducing other discretionary expenses, we reduced our workforce. If there are unforeseen expenses associated with such realignments in our business strategies, and we incur unanticipated charges or liabilities, then we may not be able to effectively realize the expected cost savings or other benefits of such actions. In addition, the loss of certain personnel, through such reduction in force or otherwise, presents significant risks including, among other things, failure to maintain adequate