ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and related notes included in our 2022 Form 10-K, the information included under Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of our 2022 Form 10-K, and the unaudited consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q. In addition to historical data, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in our forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including but not limited to those discussed under Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements in this Form 10-Q and under Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of our 2022 Form 10-K. References in this Form 10-Q to ZoomInfo Technologies Inc. refer to ZoomInfo Technologies Inc. and not to any of its subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise. References in this Form 10-Q to ZoomInfo, the Company, we, us, and our refer (1) prior to the consummation of the Reorganization Transactions, to ZoomInfo OpCo and its consolidated subsidiaries, and (2) after the consummation of the Reorganization Transactions, to ZoomInfo Technologies Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise. Numerical figures included in this Form 10-Q have been subject to rounding adjustments. Accordingly, numerical figures shown as totals in various tables may not be arithmetic aggregations of the figures that precede them. Overview ZoomInfo is a global leader in modern go-to-market software, data, and intelligence for sales, marketing, operations, and recruiting professionals. RevOS our modern, cloud-based operating system for revenue professionals allows sales, marketing, operations, and recruiting teams to shorten sales cycles and increase win rates by delivering the right message to the right person at the right time, in the right way. We do this by delivering timely insights and offering services that make reaching prospects fast and easy. ZoomInfo, formerly known as DiscoverOrg, was co-founded in 2007 by Founder and CEO Henry Schuck. He has led the companys growth and profitability by efficiently developing innovative ways of gathering and improving our data and insights and using intelligent automation to put those insights into action. Today, our company defines the modern go-to-market technology stack across three distinct layers that build upon each other: Our Intelligence Layer is the foundation of our data-driven strategy. Our best-in-class data, curated through first- and third-party sources, includes billions of data points about companies and contacts, such as intent, hierarchy, location, and financial information. Our Orchestration Layer integrates and enriches our data sources. At this stage, our products assign and route data, leads, and insights to the appropriate people. This creates a dataset that is continuously updated and can be used to power automated business workflows. Our services connect with major CRM providers. 41 Table of Contents Our Engagement Layer allows sales, marketing, operations, and recruiting professionals to put data-driven insights into action to identify and communicate with prospects and customers. In SalesOS, frontline teams, managers, and leaders use Engage for multi-touch and multi-channel sales engagement, as well as Chorus for call and web meeting recording, transcription, insight generation, and coaching. In MarketingOS, marketers drive awareness, lead generation, and deal acceleration campaigns through account-based marketing, advertising, and onsite conversion optimization solutions, along with ZoomInfo Chat for intelligent onsite experiences through live conversation and chatbots. In TalentOS, recruiters and talent acquisition professionals access a platform that helps them efficiently find candidates. Recruiters can filter and reach more good-fit candidates, use pipeline management tools to collaborate and organize the hiring process, and automate the candidate outreach process. In OperationsOS, our sales operations customers use a suite of products, services, and solutions to ingest, match, enrich, and connect data feeds into multiple systems. We generate substantially all of our revenue from sales of subscriptions to our platform. Subscriptions include the use of our platform and access to customer support. Subscriptions generally range from one to three years in length. Over 40% of customer contracts (based on annualized value) are multi-year agreements. We typically bill our customers at the beginning of each annual, semi-annual, or quarterly period and recognize revenue ratably over the term of the subscription period. We sell our software to both new and existing customers. We price our subscriptions based on the functionality, users, and records under management that are included in each product edition. Our paid products are SalesOS, MarketingOS, OperationsOS, and TalentOS (with add-on options for some products), and we have a free Community Edition. To address our market opportunity, we have built and continue to tune our efficient and comprehensive go-to-market engine. We have integrated our insights and data into an automated engine with defined processes and specialized roles in order to market and sell our services. We are constantly improving the effectiveness of our engine in order to identify and close more business. Recent Developments Impact of Macroeconomic Conditions and COVID-19 Our business and financial condition have and may continue to be impacted by adverse macroeconomic conditions. In addition, the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic continues to have unpredictable and rapidly shifting impacts on global financial markets, economies, and business practices. See Risk Factors - Geopolitical Risks in Part I, Item 1A of our 2022 Form 10-K for further discussion of the possible impact of these issues on our business. First Lien Term Loan In February 2023, we entered into an amendment to our existing First Lien Credit Agreement (the Fifth Amendment), pursuant to which the Company completed a repricing of its First Lien Term Loan Facility, which provided for an extension of the maturity date to February 28, 2030 and a decrease in the applicable margin rate by 0.25%. Under the terms of the Fifth Amendment, the Company is obligated to make principal payments in the amount of 0.25% of the aggregate outstanding amount each quarter. First Lien Revolving Credit Facility Pursuant to the Fifth Amendment, the Company also extended the maturity date of $213.0 million of our $250.0 million existing commitments of the first lien revolving credit facility to February 28, 2028. With respect to the $37.0 million commitments which were not extended, the maturity date is November 2, 2025. 42 Table of Contents Share Repurchase Program In March 2023, the Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $100.0 million of the Companys Common Stock (the Share Repurchase Program). Under the Share Repurchase Program, shares of Common Stock may be repurchased from time to time through open market transactions in compliance with applicable securities laws. The timing, manner, price and amount of any repurchases, as well as the capital resources to fund the repurchases, are determined by the Company at its discretion and depend on a variety of factors, including legal requirements, price and economic and market conditions. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, the Company repurchased and subsequently retired 1,058,291 shares of Common Stock at an average price of $22.99, for an aggregate $24.3 million. As of March 31, 2023, $75.7 million remained available and authorized for repurchases under the Share Repurchase Program. Holding Company Reorganization In May 2022, following approval by the Companys stockholders, the Company further amended and restated its Amended and Restated Certification of Incorporation to eliminate the multiple classes of common stock and to rename the Companys Class A common stock as Common Stock. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance We believe that the growth and future success of our business depends on many factors, including the following: Continuing to Acquire New Customers We are focused on continuing to grow the number of customers that use our platform in the United States and around the world. The majority of revenue growth when comparing the three months ended March 31, 2023 to the three months ended March 31, 2022 was the result of new customers added over the last 12 months. Our operating results and growth prospects will depend in part on our ability to continue to attract new customers. Additionally, acquiring new customers strengthens the power of our contributory networks. We plan to continue to invest in our efficient go-to-market effort to acquire new customers. Increasing Usage of Our Platform We believe that expanding the value that we provide to our customers and the corresponding revenue generated as a result is an important measure of the health of our business, and we believe there is a significant opportunity to add additional users, data integration, and additional functionality within our existing customers. We monitor net revenue retention to measure the expanding value that we provide to our customers and the corresponding revenue growth. Net revenue retention is an annual metric that we calculate based on customers of ZoomInfo at the beginning of the year, and is calculated as: (a) the total ACV for those customers at the end of the year, divided by (b) the total ACV for those customers at the beginning of the year. Our net annual retention rate was 104% for the year ended December 31, 2022. In the near term, we expect our net retention rate to be adversely impacted by macroeconomic conditions. See section Recent Developments - Impact of Macroeconomic Conditions and COVID-19. We also measure our success in expanding relationships with existing customers by the number of customers that contract for more than $100,000 in ACV. As of March 31, 2023, we had 1,905 customers with over $100,000 in ACV. Factors Affecting the Comparability of Our Results of Operations As a result of a number of factors, our historical results of operations are not comparable from period to period and may not be comparable to our financial results of operations in future periods. Set forth below is a brief discussion of the key factors impacting the comparability of our results of operations. 43 Table of Contents Impact of Acquisitions We seek to grow through both internal development and the acquisition of businesses that broaden and strengthen our platform. Acquisitions completed within the twelve months ending March 31, 2023 include Comparably, Inc. and Dogpatch Advisors, LLC in April 2022. Purchase accounting requires that certain assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at fair value on the acquisition date. Prior to January 2022, revenue from contracts that were impacted by the estimate of fair value of the unearned revenue upon acquisition were recorded based on the fair value until such contract is terminated or renewed, which differed from the receipts received by the acquired company allocated over the service period for the same reporting periods. Effective January 1, 2022, the Company early adopted new accounting guidance which requires contract assets and contract liabilities acquired in a business combination to be recognized and measured in accordance with ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, as if the acquirer had originated the contract. Refer to Note 2 - Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for additional information. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to our results determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, we believe certain non-GAAP measures are useful in evaluating our operating performance. These measures include, but are not limited to, Adjusted Operating Income, Adjusted Operating Income Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income, and Adjusted Net Income per diluted share and are used by management in making operating decisions, allocating financial resources, internal planning and forecasting, and for business strategy purposes. We believe that non-GAAP financial information is useful to investors because it eliminates certain items that affect period-over-period comparability, and it provides consistency with past financial performance and additional information about our underlying results and trends by excluding certain items that may not be indicative of our business, results of operations, or outlook. We view Adjusted Operating Income, Adjusted Operating Income Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income, and Adjusted Net Income per diluted share as operating performance measures. We believe that the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure to Adjusted Operating Income is U.S. GAAP operating income. We believe that the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure to Adjusted Operating Income Margin is U.S. GAAP operating income divided by U.S. GAAP revenue. We believe that the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure to Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Net Income is U.S. GAAP Net Income, and the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure to Adjusted Net Income per diluted share is U.S. GAAP net earnings per diluted share. Non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the comparable GAAP measures, but rather as supplemental information to our business results. This information should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. There are limitations to these non-GAAP financial measures because they are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies due to potential differences in methods of calculation and items or events being adjusted. In addition, other companies may use different measures to evaluate their performance, all of which could reduce the usefulness of our non-GAAP financial measures as tools for comparison. A reconciliation is provided below for each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable financial measure stated in accordance with GAAP. 44 Table of Contents Adjusted Operating Income, Adjusted Operating Income Margin, and Adjusted Net Income We define Adjusted Operating Income as income from operations plus (i) impact of fair value adjustments to acquired unearned revenue, (ii) amortization of acquired technology and other acquired intangibles, (iii) equity-based compensation expense, (iv) restructuring and transaction-related expenses, and (v) integration costs and acquisition-related compensation. We exclude the impact of fair value adjustments to acquired unearned revenue and amortization of acquired technology and other acquired intangibles, as well as equity-based compensation, because these are non-cash expenses or non-cash fair value adjustments and we believe that excluding these items provides meaningful supplemental information regarding performance and ongoing cash-generation potential. We exclude restructuring and transaction-related expenses, as well as integration costs and acquisition-related compensation, because such expenses are episodic in nature and have no direct correlation to the cost of operating our business on an ongoing basis. Adjusted Operating Income is presented because it is used by management to evaluate our financial performance and for planning and forecasting purposes. Additionally, we believe that it and similar measures are widely used by securities analysts and investors as a means of evaluating a companys operating performance. Adjusted Operating Income should not be considered as an alternative to operating income as an indicator of operating performance. We define Adjusted Net Income as Adjusted Operating Income less (i) interest expense, net (ii) other (income) expense, net, excluding TRA liability remeasurement expense (benefit) and (iii) income tax expense (benefit) including incremental tax effects of adjustments to arrive at Adjusted Operating Income and current tax benefits related to the TRA. Adjusted Net Income is presented because it is used by management to evaluate our financial performance and for planning and forecasting purposes. Additionally, we believe that it and similar measures are widely used by securities analysts and investors as a means of evaluating a companys operating performance. Adjusted Net Income should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of liquidity or as an alternative to operating income or net income as indicators of operating performance. 45 Table of Contents The following table presents a reconciliation of Net income to Adjusted Net Income and Income from operations to Adjusted Operating Income for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, ($ in millions) 2023 2022 Net income $ 44.5 $ 6.2 Add: Expense from income taxes 23.7 13.0 Add: Interest expense, net 9.9 11.8 Add: Loss on debt modification and extinguishment 2.2 Add (less): Other expense (income), net(a) (14.0) 1.4 Income from operations $ 66.3 $ 32.4 Add: Impact of fair value adjustments to acquired unearned revenue(b) 0.1 1.1 Add: Amortization of acquired technology 10.5 11.2 Add: Amortization of other acquired intangibles 5.6 5.3 Add: Equity-based compensation 37.7 42.5 Add: Restructuring and transaction-related expenses(c) 0.1 2.5 Add: Integration costs and acquisition-related expenses(d) 0.6 Adjusted Operating Income $ 120.3 $ 95.7 Less: Interest expense, net (9.9) (11.8) Less (add): Other expense (income), net, excluding TRA liability remeasurement (benefit) expense 3.8 (0.6) Less: Expense from income taxes (23.7) (13.0) Add: Tax impacts of adjustments to net income 9.2 3.5 Adjusted Net Income $ 99.5 $ 73.8 Shares for Adjusted Net Income Per Share(e) 415 409 Adjusted Net Income Per Share $ 0.24 $ 0.18 __________________ (a)Primarily represents revaluations on tax receivable agreement liability and foreign exchange remeasurement gains and losses. (b)Represents the impact of fair value adjustments to acquired unearned revenue relating to services billed by an acquired company, prior to our acquisition of that company. These adjustments represent the difference between the revenue recognized based on managements estimate of fair value of acquired unearned revenue and the receipts billed prior to the acquisition less revenue recognized prior to the acquisition. (c)Represents costs directly associated with acquisition or disposal activities, including employee severance and termination benefits, contract termination fees and penalties, and other exit or disposal costs. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, this expense is primarily related to costs pursuant to the 2021 and 2022 acquisitions. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, this expense related primarily to transition and retention payments related to 2021 acquisitions. (d)Represents costs directly associated with integration activities for acquisitions and acquisition-related compensation, which includes transaction bonuses and retention awards. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, this expense related to retention awards from the acquisitions of Clickagy and Everstring, and professional fees related to integration projects. This expense is included in cost of service, sales and marketing expense, research and development expense, and general and administrative expense as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, ($ in millions) 2023 2022 Cost of service $ $ 0.1 Sales and marketing 0.1 Research and development 0.3 General and administrative 0.1 Total integration costs and acquisition-related compensation $ $ 0.6 46 Table of Contents (e)Diluted earnings per share is computed by giving effect to all potential weighted average Common Stock, and any securities that are convertible into Common Stock, including options and restricted stock units. The dilutive effect of outstanding awards and convertible securities is reflected in diluted earnings per share by application of the treasury stock method, excluding deemed repurchases assuming proceeds from unrecognized compensation as required by GAAP. Shares and grants issued in conjunction with the IPO were assumed to be issued at the beginning of the period. We define Adjusted Operating Income Margin as Adjusted Operating Income divided by the sum of revenue and the impact of fair value adjustments to acquired unearned revenue. Three Months Ended March 31, ($ in millions) 2023 2022 Income from operations $ 66.3 $ 32.4 Adjusted Operating Income $ 120.3 $ 95.7 Revenue $ 300.7 $ 241.7 Impact of fair value adjustments to acquired unearned revenue 0.1 1.1 Revenue for adjusted operating margin calculation $ 300.8 $ 242.8 Operating Income Margin 22 % 13 % Adjusted Operating Income Margin 40 % 39 % Adjusted Operating Income for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $120.3 million and represented an Adjusted Operating Income Margin of 40%. Adjusted Operating Income for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was $95.7 million and represented an Adjusted Operating Income Margin of 39%. The increase of $24.6 million, or 26%, was driven primarily from the growth in revenue driven by additional customers and increasing revenue from existing customers. Adjusted Operating Income Margin increased to 40% in the three months ended March 31, 2023 from 39% in the three months ended March 31, 2022 due to slower headcount growth relative to revenue growth. Adjusted EBITDA EBITDA is defined as earnings before debt-related costs, including interest and loss on debt modification and extinguishment, provision for taxes, depreciation, and amortization. Management further adjusts EBITDA to exclude certain items of a significant or unusual nature, including other (income) expense, net, impact of certain non-cash items, such as fair value adjustments to acquired unearned revenue and equity-based compensation, restructuring and transaction-related expenses, and integration costs and acquisition-related compensation. We exclude these items because these are non-cash expenses or non-cash fair value adjustments, which we do not consider indicative of performance and ongoing cash-generation potential or are episodic in nature and have no direct correlation to the cost of operating our business on an ongoing basis. Adjusted EBITDA is presented because it is used by management to evaluate our financial performance and for planning and forecasting purposes. Additionally, we believe that it and similar measures are widely used by securities analysts and investors as a means of evaluating a companys operating performance. Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of liquidity or as an alternative to operating income or net income as indicators of operating performance. 47 Table of Contents The following table presents a reconciliation of net income (loss) to Adjusted EBITDA for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, ($ in millions) 2023 2022 Net income $ 44.5 $ 6.2 Add: Expense from income taxes 23.7 13.0 Add: Interest expense, net 9.9 11.8 Add: Loss on debt modification and extinguishment 2.2 Add: Depreciation 4.8 3.5 Add: Amortization of acquired technology 10.5 11.2 Add: Amortization of other acquired intangibles 5.6 5.3 EBITDA $ 101.2 $ 51.0 Add (less): Other expense (income), net(a) (14.0) 1.4 Add: Impact of fair value adjustments to acquired unearned revenue(b) 0.1 1.1 Add: Equity-based compensation expense 37.7 42.5 Add: Restructuring and transaction related expenses(c) 0.1 2.5 Add: Integration costs and acquisition-related expenses(d) 0.6 Adjusted EBITDA $ 125.1 $ 99.1 __________________ (a)Primarily represents revaluations on tax receivable agreement liability and foreign exchange remeasurement gains and losses. (b)Represents the impact of fair value adjustments to acquired unearned revenue relating to services billed by an acquired company, prior to our acquisition of that company. These adjustments represent the difference between the revenue recognized based on managements estimate of fair value of acquired unearned revenue and the receipts billed prior to the acquisition less revenue recognized prior to the acquisition. (c)Represents costs directly associated with acquisition or disposal activities, including employee severance and termination benefits, contract termination fees and penalties, and other exit or disposal costs. For three months ended March 31, 2023, this expense is primarily related to costs pursuant to the 2021 and 2022 acquisitions. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, this expense related primarily to transition and retention payments related to 2021 acquisitions. (d)Represents costs directly associated with integration activities for acquisitions and acquisition-related compensation, which includes transaction bonuses and retention awards. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, this expense related to retention awards from the acquisitions of Clickagy and Everstring, and professional fees related to integration projects. This expense is included in cost of service, sales and marketing expense, research and development expense, and general and administrative expense as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, ($ in millions) 2023 2022 Cost of service $ $ 0.1 Sales and marketing 0.1 Research and development 0.3 General and administrative 0.1 Total integration costs and acquisition-related compensation $ $ 0.6 Adjusted EBITDA for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $125.1 million, an increase of $26.0 million, or 26%, relative to the three months ended March 31, 2022. This increase was driven primarily from the growth in revenue and additional customers in 2023 and 2022. 48 Table of Contents Components of Our Results of Operations Revenue We derive 99% of our revenue from subscription services and the remainder from recurring usage-based services and other revenue. Our subscription services consist of our SaaS applications. Pricing of our subscription contracts are generally based on the functionality provided, the number of users that access our applications, and the amount of data that the customer integrates into their systems. Our subscription contracts typically have a term ranging from one to three years and are non-cancelable. We typically bill for services in advance either annually, semi-annually, or quarterly, and we typically require payment at the beginning of each annual, semi-annual, or quarterly period. Subscription revenue is generally recognized ratably over the contract term starting with when our service is made available to the customer. Recurring usage-based revenue is recognized in the period services are utilized by our customers. Other revenue, comprised largely of implementation and professional services fees, is recognized as services are delivered. The amount of revenue recognized reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to receive in exchange for these services. We record a contract asset when revenue recognized on a contract exceeds the billings to date for that contract. Unearned revenue results from cash received or amounts billed to customers in advance of revenue recognized upon the satisfaction of performance obligations. The unearned revenue balance is influenced by several factors, including purchase accounting adjustments, seasonality, the compounding effects of renewals, invoice duration, invoice timing, dollar size, and new business timing within the period. The unearned revenue balance does not represent the total contract value of annual or multi-year, non-cancelable subscription agreements. Cost of Service Cost of service, excluding amortization of acquired technology. Cost of service, excluding amortization of acquired technology includes direct expenses related to the support and operations of our SaaS services and related to our research teams, including salaries, benefits, equity-based compensation, and related expenses, such as employer taxes, allocated overhead for facilities, IT, third-party hosting fees, third-party data costs, and amortization of internally developed capitalized software. We anticipate that we will continue to invest in costs of service and that costs of service as a percentage of revenue modestly decrease as we realize operating leverage in the business. Amortization of acquired technology. Amortization of acquired technology includes amortization expense for technology acquired in business combinations. We anticipate that amortization of acquired technology will increase if we make additional acquisitions in the future. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Gross profit is revenue less cost of service, and gross margin is gross profit as a percentage of revenue. Gross profit has been and will continue to be affected by various factors, including leveraging economies of scale, the costs associated with third-party hosting services and third-party data, the level of amortization of acquired technology, and the extent to which we expand our customer support and research organizations. We expect that our gross margin will fluctuate from period to period depending on the interplay of these various factors. 49 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development, general and administrative, restructuring and transaction expenses, and amortization of acquired intangibles (other than acquired technology). The most significant component of our operating expenses is personnel costs, which consists of salaries, bonuses, sales commissions, equity-based compensation, and other employee-related benefits. Operating expenses also include overhead costs for facilities, technology, professional fees, depreciation and amortization expense, and marketing. Sales and marketing. Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of employee compensation such as salaries, bonuses, sales commissions, equity-based compensation, and other employee-related benefits for our sales and marketing teams, as well as overhead costs, technology, and marketing programs. Sales commissions and related payroll taxes directly related to contract acquisition are capitalized and recognized as expenses over the estimated period of benefit. We anticipate that we will continue to invest in sales and marketing capacity to enable future growth. We anticipate that sales and marketing expense excluding equity-based compensation as a percentage of revenue will fluctuate from period to period depending on the interplay of our growing investments in sales and marketing capacity excluding equity-based compensation, the recognition of revenue, and the amortization of contract acquisition costs. Research and development. Research and development expenses support our efforts to enhance our existing platform and develop new software products. Research and development expenses primarily consist of employee compensation such as salaries, bonuses, equity-based compensation, and other employee-related benefits for our engineering and product management teams, as well as overhead costs. Research and development expenses do not reflect amortization of internally developed capitalized software. We believe that our core technologies and ongoing innovation represent a significant competitive advantage for us. We anticipate that we will continue to invest in research and development in order to develop new features and functionality to drive incremental customer value in the future and that research and development expense as a percentage of revenue will modestly increase in the short term, but will modestly decrease in the long term as we drive efficiencies in that organization. General and administrative. General and administrative expenses primarily consist of employee-related costs such as salaries, bonuses, equity-based compensation, and other employee related benefits for our executive, finance, legal, human resources, IT, and business operations and administrative teams, as well as overhead costs. Additionally, we incur expenses for professional fees including legal services, accounting, and other consulting services, including those associated with operating as a public company. We expect general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue to modestly decrease as we realize operating leverage in the business. Amortization of other acquired intangibles. Amortization of acquired intangibles primarily consists of amortization of customer relationships, trade names, and brand portfolios. We anticipate that amortization of other acquired intangibles will increase if we make additional acquisitions in the future. Restructuring and transaction-related expenses. Restructuring and transaction expenses primarily consist of various restructuring and acquisition activities we have undertaken to achieve strategic or financial objectives. Restructuring and acquisition activities include, but are not limited to, consolidation of offices and responsibilities, office relocation, administrative cost structure realignment, and acquisition-related professional services fees. We anticipate that restructuring and transaction expenses will be correlated with future acquisition activity or strategic restructuring activities, which could be greater than or less than our historic levels. 50 Table of Contents Interest Expense, Net Interest expense represents the interest payable on our debt obligations and the amortization of debt discounts and debt issuance costs, less interest income. We anticipate that interest expense could be impacted by changes in variable interest rates or the issuance of additional debt. Loss on Debt Modification and Extinguishment Loss on debt modification and extinguishment consists of prepayment penalties and impairment of deferred financing costs associated with the modification or extinguishment of debt, as well as new fees incurred with third parties in connection with debt modifications. We anticipate that losses related to debt extinguishment will only occur if we extinguish indebtedness before the contractual repayment dates. Other (Income) Expense, Net Other (income) expense, net consists primarily of the revaluation of tax receivable agreement liabilities and foreign currency realized and unrealized gains and losses related to the impact of transactions denominated in a foreign currency. Changes to existing tax law including changes to the corporate income tax rates and the Companys state tax footprint could lead to substantial revaluations of the tax receivable agreement liability recorded through other income and expense, net. The magnitude of other income and expenses, net may increase as we expand operations internationally and add complexity to our operations. Income Tax Expense ZoomInfo Technologies Inc. is treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal, state, and local income tax purposes. Accordingly, a provision for income taxes will be recorded for the anticipated tax consequences of our reported results of operations for federal, state and local, and foreign income taxes. In addition to tax expenses, we also will make payments under the tax receivable agreements, which we expect to be significant. 51 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table presents our results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022: Three Months Ended March 31, ($ in millions) 2023 2022 Revenue $ 300.7 $ 241.7 Cost of service: Cost of service(1) 35.0 32.8 Amortization of acquired technology 10.5 11.2 Gross profit 255.2 197.7 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing(1) 103.2 84.1 Research and development(1) 42.3 45.6 General and administrative(1) 37.7 27.8 Amortization of other acquired intangibles 5.6 5.3 Restructuring and transaction-related expenses 0.1 2.5 Total operating expenses 188.9 165.3 Income from operations 66.3 32.4 Interest expense, net 9.9 11.8 Loss on debt modification and extinguishment 2.2 Other (income) expense, net (14.0) 1.4 Income before income taxes 68.2 19.2 Income tax expense 23.7 13.0 Net income $ 44.5 $ 6.2 __________________ (1)Includes equity-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, ($ in millions) 2023 2022 Cost of service $ 4.1 $ 4.6 Sales and marketing 19.5 16.1 Research and development 6.9 15.6 General and administrative 7.2 6.2 Total equity-based compensation expense $ 37.7 $ 42.5 Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 and Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 Revenue. Revenue was $300.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, an increase of $59.0 million, or 24%, as compared to $241.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. This increase was primarily due to the addition of new customers over the past 12 months and net expansion with existing customers. Revenue from acquired products in the first 12 months post-acquisition contributed $3.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. 52 Table of Contents Cost of Service. Cost of service was $45.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, an increase of $1.5 million, or 3%, as compared to $44.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase was primarily due to additional headcount, related salaries and benefit expenses, and additional cloud computing infrastructure to support new and growing customers. Operating Expenses. Operating expenses were $188.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, an increase of $23.6 million, or 14%, as compared to $165.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Excluding equity-based compensation expenses, operating expenses were $155.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, an increase of $27.9 million, or 22%, as compared to $127.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase excluding equity-based compensation was primarily due to: an increase in sales and marketing expense (excluding equity-based compensation) of $15.7 million, or 23%, to $83.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, due primarily to additional headcount and related salaries and benefits expenses added to drive continued incremental sales, as well as additional commission expense and amortization of deferred commissions related to obtaining contracts with customers; an increase in research and development expense (excluding equity-based compensation) of $5.4 million, or 18%, to $35.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, due primarily to additional headcount and related salaries and benefits expenses added to support continued innovation of our services and acquired products; an increase in general and administrative expense (excluding equity-based compensation) of $8.9 million, or 41%, to $30.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, due primarily to increased accruals for bad debt and additional headcount and related salaries and benefits expenses to support the larger organization; an increase in amortization of acquired intangibles expense of $0.3 million, or 6%, to $5.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, due to amortization expense related to intangible assets from 2022 acquisitions; and restructuring and transaction-related expense of $0.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. This represented a decrease of $2.4 million, or 96%, as compared to expense of $2.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, which were primarily comprised of costs incurred related to 2021 acquisitions. Equity-based Compensation Expense. Equity-based compensation expense was $37.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, a decrease of $4.8 million, or 11%, as compared to $42.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, primarily due to slower headcount growth and higher forfeitures of unvested awards. Other (income) expense, net. Other income was $14.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, an increase of $15.4 million, as compared to other expense of $1.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, primarily due to a TRA remeasurement gain recognized in 2023. Interest Expense, Net. Interest expense, net was $9.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, a decrease of $1.9 million, or 16%, as compared to $11.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. The decrease was primarily due to increases in deposit rates that drove incremental interest income. Income Tax Expense. Expense from income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $23.7 million, representing an effective tax rate of 34.8%, as compared to expense from income taxes of $13.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, representing an effective tax rate of 67.6%. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to a reduction in non-deductible equity-based compensation in 2023 compared to 2022. The current quarter's effective tax rate largely exceeds the U.S. federal statutory rate due to U.S. state taxes, foreign taxes, non-deductible equity compensation expense, offset by research and development credits. 53 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2023, we had $474.0 million of cash and cash equivalents, $141.8 million of short-term investments, and $250.0 million available under our first lien revolving credit facility. We have financed our operations primarily through cash generated from operations. We believe that our cash flows from operations and existing available cash and cash equivalents, together with our other available external financing sources, will be adequate to fund our operating and capital needs for at least the next 12 months and for the foreseeable future. We are currently in compliance with the covenants under the credit agreements governing our secured credit facilities and we expect to remain in compliance with our covenants. We generally invoice our subscription customers annually, semi-annually, or quarterly in advance of our subscription services. Therefore, a substantial source of our cash is from such prepayments, which are included on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as unearned revenue. Unearned revenue consists of billed fees for our subscriptions, prior to satisfying the criteria for revenue recognition, which are subsequently recognized as revenue in accordance with our revenue recognition policy. As of March 31, 2023, we had unearned revenue of $451.4 million, of which $449.0 million was recorded as a current liability and is expected to be recorded as revenue in the next 12 months, provided all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. Our cash flows from operations, borrowing availability, and overall liquidity are subject to risks and uncertainties. We may not be able to obtain additional liquidity on reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, our liquidity and our ability to meet our obligations and to fund our capital requirements are dependent on our future financial performance, which is subject to general economic, financial, and other factors that are beyond our control. Accordingly, our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available from additional indebtedness or otherwise to meet our liquidity needs. If we decide to pursue one or more significant acquisitions, we may incur additional debt or sell additional equity to finance such acquisitions, which would result in additional expenses or dilution. See Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of our 2022 Form 10-K. Historical Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, ($ in millions) 2023 2022 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 108.6 $ 105.0 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (19.6) (8.6) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (29.3) (10.3) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 59.7 $ 86.1 Cash Flows from (used in) Operating Activities Net cash provided by operations was $108.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 as a result of net income of $44.5 million, adjusted by non-cash charges of $104.2 million and the change in our operating assets net of operating liabilities of $40.1 million. The non-cash charges are primarily comprised of equity-based compensation of $37.7 million, a decrease in deferred tax assets net of deferred tax liabilities of $27.9 million, depreciation and amortization of $20.9 million, amortization of deferred commission costs of $18.8 million, and provision for bad debt expense of $6.1 million, partially offset by tax receivable agreement remeasurement of $10.1 million. The change in operating assets net of operating liabilities was primarily the result of a decrease in accrued expenses and other liabilities of $34.0 million, an increase in deferred costs and other assets of $16.4 million, a decrease in accounts payable of $10.3 million. an increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets of $9.9 million, partially offset by an increase in unearned revenue of $31.5 million. 54 Table of Contents Net cash provided by operations was $105.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 as a result of a net income of $6.2 million, adjusted by non-cash charges of $89.3 million and partially offset by the change in our operating assets net of operating liabilities of $9.5 million. The non-cash charges were primarily comprised of equity-based compensation of $42.5 million, depreciation and amortization of $20.0 million, amortization of deferred commission costs of $14.1 million, and a decrease in deferred tax assets net of deferred tax liabilities of $10.7 million. The change in operating assets net of operating liabilities was primarily the result of an increase in unearned revenue of $41.9 million, and a decrease in accounts receivable of $20.1 million, partially offset by a decrease in accrued expenses and other liabilities of $29.4 million, and an increase in deferred costs and other assets of $18.6 million. We may continue to make future acquisitions as part of our business strategy which may require the use of capital resources and drive additional future restructuring and transaction-related cash expenditures as well as integration and acquisition-related compensation cash costs. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, and 2022, we incurred the following cash expenditures: Three Months Ended March 31, ($ in millions) 2023 2022 Cash interest expense $ 18.7 $ 19.5 Restructuring and transaction-related expenses paid in cash(a) $ 0.2 $ 8.0 $18.7 (a)Represents cash payments directly associated with acquisition or disposal activities, including employee severance and termination benefits, contract termination fees and penalties, and other exit or disposal costs. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, these payments related primarily to legal costs paid related to 2021 and 2022 acquisitions and Waltham sublease costs. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, these payments related primarily to transaction bonuses paid related to 2021 acquisitions. Future demands on our capital resources associated with our debt facilities may also be impacted by changes in reference interest rates and the potential that we incur additional debt in order to fund additional acquisitions or for other corporate purposes. Future demands on our capital resources associated with transaction expenses and restructuring activities and integration costs and transaction-related compensation will be dependent on the frequency and magnitude of future acquisitions and restructuring and integration activities that we pursue. As part of our business strategy, we expect to continue to pursue acquisitions of, or investments in, complementary businesses from time to time; however, we cannot predict the magnitude or frequency of such acquisitions or investments. Cash Flows from (used in) Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $19.6 million, consisting of purchases of short-term investments of $63.6 million, purchases of property and equipment and other assets of $6.4 million, partially offset by maturities of short-term investments of $50.4 million. Cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was $8.6 million, consisting of purchases of short-term investments of $11.1 million, the purchase of a convertible note receivable of $10.0 million, and purchases of property and equipment and other assets of $6.6 million, partially offset by maturities of short-term investments of $17.0 million, and cash received from prior acquisition deposits of $2.1 million. As we continue to grow and invest in our business, we expect to continue to invest in property and equipment and opportunistically pursue acquisitions. Cash Flows from (used in) Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $29.3 million, primarily comprised of payments relating to the repurchase of common stock of $21.9 million, payments of taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards of $4.1 million, payments of debt issuance and modification costs of $2.0 million, and repayment of debt of $1.5 million, partially offset by proceeds from exercise of stock options of $0.2 million. 55 Table of Contents Cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was $10.3 million, primarily comprised of payments related to our tax receivable agreements of $5.0 million, payments of taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards of $3.8 million, payments of deferred consideration of $1.1 million. payments of issuance fees from prior transactions of $0.7 million, partially offset by proceeds from exercise of stock options of $0.3 million. Refer to Note 8 - Financing Arrangements of our consolidated financial statements for additional information related to each of our borrowings. Debt Obligations As of March 31, 2023, the Company has a remaining balance of $598.5 million with respect to its first lien term loans. The Company is obligated to make principal payments in the amount of 0.25% of the aggregate outstanding amount each quarter, with the remaining balance due at the contractual maturity date of February 28, 2030. As of March 31, 2023, the aggregate remaining balance of $650.0 million of 3.875% Senior Notes is due, in its entirety, at the contractual maturity date of February 1, 2029. Interest on the Senior Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears beginning on August 1, 2021. The foregoing currently represent the only existing required future debt principal repayment obligations that will require future uses of the Companys cash. The first lien term debt has a variable interest rate whereby the Company can elect to use a Base Rate or SOFR plus an applicable rate. The applicable rate is 1.75% for Base Rate loans or 2.75% for SOFR loans, plus a credit spread adjustment of 0.1%, depending on the Companys leverage. The first lien revolving credit facility, which had no amount outstanding as of March 31, 2023, has a variable interest rate whereby the Company can elect to use a Base Rate or SOFR plus an applicable rate. The applicable margin is 1.00% to 1.25% for Base Rate loans or 2.10% to 2.35% for SOFR loans, depending on the Companys leverage. The effective interest rate on the first lien debt was 7.36% and 7.38% as of March 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. Our total net leverage ratio to Adjusted EBITDA is defined as total contractual maturity of outstanding indebtedness less cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, and short-term investments, divided by trailing twelve months Adjusted EBITDA. Adjusted EBITDA for the 12 months ended March 31, 2023 was $491.4 million. Our total net leverage ratio to Adjusted EBITDA as of March 31, 2023 was 1.3x. ($ in millions, except leverage ratios) Total contractual maturity of outstanding indebtedness $ 1,248.5 Less: Cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, and short-term investments 625.6 Net Debt $ 622.9 Trailing Twelve Months (TTM) Adjusted EBITDA $ 491.4 Total net leverage ratio to Adjusted EBITDA 1.3x Our consolidated first lien net leverage ratio is defined in the agreement governing our existing first lien credit facilities (the First Lien Credit Agreement) as total contractual maturity of outstanding First Lien indebtedness less cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, divided by trailing twelve months Cash EBITDA (defined as Consolidated EBITDA in our Credit Agreements). Cash EBITDA differs from Adjusted EBITDA due to certain defined add-backs, including cash generated from changes in unearned revenue; see table below for reconciliation. Cash EBITDA for the 12 months ended March 31, 2023 was $535.4 million. Our consolidated first lien net leverage ratio as of March 31, 2023 was -0.0x. 56 Table of Contents ($ in millions, except leverage ratios) Total contractual maturity of First Lien indebtedness $ 598.5 Less: Cash and cash equivalents, and short-term investments 615.8 Net Debt $ (17.3) Trailing Twelve Months (TTM) Cash EBITDA $ 535.4 Consolidated first lien net leverage ratio -0.0x Our total net leverage ratio to Cash EBITDA (defined as Consolidated EBITDA in our Credit Agreements) is defined as total contractual maturity of outstanding indebtedness less cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, and short-term investments, divided by trailing twelve months Cash EBITDA. Cash EBITDA for the 12 months ended March 31, 2023 was $535.4 million. Our total net leverage ratio to Cash EBITDA as of March 31, 2023 was 1.2x. ($ in millions, except leverage ratios) Total contractual maturity of outstanding indebtedness $ 1,248.5 Less: Cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, and short-term investments 625.6 Net Debt $ 622.9 Trailing Twelve Months (TTM) Cash EBITDA $ 535.4 Total net leverage ratio to Cash EBITDA 1.2x Trailing Twelve Months as of (in millions) March 31, 2023 Net income (loss) $ 101.4 Add: Expense from income taxes 142.2 Add: Interest expense, net 45.7 Add: Loss on debt modification and extinguishment 2.2 Add: Depreciation 19.0 Add: Amortization of acquired technology 47.5 Add: Amortization of other acquired intangibles 22.2 EBITDA $ 380.3 Add (less): Other expense (income), net(a) (81.8) Add: Impact of fair value adjustments to acquired unearned revenue(b) 1.0 Add: Equity-based compensation expense 187.6 Add: Restructuring and transaction related expenses(c) 1.6 Add: Integration costs and acquisition-related expenses(d) 2.7 Adjusted EBITDA $ 491.4 Add: Unearned revenue adjustment 37.4 Add (less): Cash rent adjustment 2.8 Add (less): Other lender adjustments 3.7 Cash EBITDA $ 535.4 __________________ (a)Primarily represents revaluations on tax receivable agreement liability and foreign exchange remeasurement gains and losses. (b)Represents the impact of fair value adjustments to acquired unearned revenue relating to services billed by an acquired company prior to our acquisition of that company. These adjustments represent the difference between the revenue recognized based on managements estimate of fair value of acquired unearned revenue and the receipts billed prior to the acquisition less revenue recognized prior to the acquisition. (c)Represents costs directly associated with acquisition or disposal activities, including employee severance and termination benefits, contract termination fees and penalties, and other exit or disposal costs. For the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2023, this expense related primarily to cost incurred pursuant to the 2021 and 2022 acquisitions. 57 Table of Contents (d)Represents costs directly associated with integration activities for acquisitions and acquisition-related compensation, which includes transaction bonuses and retention awards. For the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2023, this expense related primarily to transition and retention payments pursuant to the 2021 and 2022 acquisitions. This expense is included in cost of service, sales and marketing expense, research and development expense, and general and administrative expense as follows: Trailing Twelve Months as of (in millions) March 31, 2023 Cost of service $ 0.1 Sales and marketing 0.4 Research and development 2.0 General and administrative 0.2 Total integration costs and acquisition-related compensation $ 2.7 In addition, the credit agreement governing our first lien term loan contains restrictive covenants that may limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. These restrictive covenants include, among others, limitations on our ability to pay dividends or make other distributions in respect of, or repurchase or redeem, capital stock, prepay, redeem, or repurchase certain debt, make acquisitions, investments, loans, and advances, or sell or otherwise dispose of assets. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of substantially all of our debt. The Company may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the credit agreements governing our first lien term loan limit, but do not prohibit, the Company from incurring additional indebtedness, and the additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. These restrictions will also not prevent the Company from incurring obligations that do not constitute Indebtedness as defined in the agreements governing our indebtedness. Tax Receivable Agreements We have entered into two tax receivable agreements. We entered into (i) the Exchange Tax Receivable Agreement with certain Pre-IPO OpCo Unitholders and (ii) the Reorganization Tax Receivable Agreement with the Pre-IPO Blocker Holders. These tax receivable agreements provide for the payment by members of the ZoomInfo Tax Group to such Pre-IPO Owners and certain Pre-IPO HoldCo Unitholders of 85% of the benefits, if any, that the ZoomInfo Tax Group is deemed to realize (calculated using certain assumptions) as a result of certain tax attributes and benefits covered by the tax receivable agreements. The tax attributes and benefits covered by the Exchange Tax Receivable Agreements include (i) the ZoomInfo Tax Groups allocable share of existing tax basis acquired in the IPO and (ii) increases in the ZoomInfo Tax Groups allocable share of existing tax basis and tax basis adjustments that will increase the tax basis of the tangible and intangible assets of the ZoomInfo Tax Group as a result of sales or exchanges of OpCo Units for shares of Common Stock after the IPO, and certain other tax benefits, including tax benefits attributable to payments under the Exchange Tax Receivable Agreement. The tax attributes and benefits covered by the Reorganization Tax Receivable Agreement include certain tax attributes of the Blocker Companies (including the ZoomInfo Tax Groups allocable share of existing tax basis acquired in the Reorganization Transactions), and certain other tax benefits, including tax benefits attributable to payments under the Reorganization Tax Receivable Agreement. In each case, these increases in existing tax basis and tax basis adjustments generated over time may increase the ZoomInfo Tax Groups depreciation and amortization deductions for tax purposes and, therefore, may reduce the amount of tax that the ZoomInfo Tax Group would otherwise be required to pay in the future, although the IRS may challenge all or part of the validity of that tax basis, and a court could sustain such a challenge. The ZoomInfo Tax Groups allocable share of existing tax basis acquired in the IPO and the increase in the ZoomInfo Tax Groups allocable share of existing tax basis and the tax basis adjustments upon exchanges of OpCo Units for shares of Common Stock may also decrease gains (or increase losses) on future dispositions of certain capital assets to the extent tax basis is allocated to those capital assets. The ZoomInfo Tax Group expects to benefit from the remaining 15% of realized cash tax benefits. 58 Table of Contents For purposes of the tax receivable agreements, the realized cash tax benefits will be computed by comparing the actual income tax liability of the ZoomInfo Tax Group (calculated with certain assumptions) to the amount of such taxes that the ZoomInfo Tax Group would have been required to pay had the tax receivable agreements not been entered into and had there been no existing tax basis, no anticipated tax basis adjustments of the assets of the ZoomInfo Tax Group as a result of exchanges, and no utilization of certain tax attributes of the Blocker Companies (including the Blocker Companies allocable share of existing tax basis). The term of each tax receivable agreement will continue until all such tax benefits have been utilized or expired, unless (i) ZoomInfo Tax Group exercises its right to terminate one or both tax receivable agreements for an amount based on the agreed payments remaining to be made under the agreement, (ii) ZoomInfo Tax Group breaches any of its material obligations under one or both tax receivable agreements in which case all obligations (including any additional interest due relating to any deferred payments) generally will be accelerated and due as if ZoomInfo Tax Group had exercised its right to terminate the tax receivable agreements, or (iii) there is a change of control of ZoomInfo Tax Group, in which case the Pre-IPO Owners may elect to receive an amount based on the agreed payments remaining to be made under the agreement determined as described above in clause (i). Estimating the amount of payments that may be made under the tax receivable agreements is by its nature imprecise, insofar as the calculation of amounts payable depends on a variety of factors. The amount of existing tax basis and the anticipated tax basis adjustments, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under the tax receivable agreements, will vary depending upon a number of factors, including our blended federal and state tax rate, the amount and timing of our income, and situations where no net benefit is received from the tax attributes. We expect that as a result of the size of the ZoomInfo Tax Groups allocable share of existing tax basis acquired in the IPO, the increase in the ZoomInfo Tax Groups allocable share of existing tax basis and the tax basis adjustment of the tangible and intangible assets of the ZoomInfo Tax Group upon the exchange of OpCo Units for shares of Common Stock and our expected utilization of certain tax attributes, the payments that ZoomInfo Tax Group may make under the tax receivable agreements will be substantial. As of March 31, 2023, the Company had a liability of $2,968.6 million related to its projected obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreements in connection with the Reorganization Transactions and OpCo Units. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, no payment was made pursuant to the Tax Receivable Agreements. During the three months ended March 31, 2022, we paid a total of $5.0 million, pursuant to the Tax Receivable Agreements. The payments under the tax receivable agreements are not conditioned upon continued ownership of us by the exchanging holders of OpCo Units. Refer to Note 15 - Tax Receivable Agreements to our unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for additional information. Share Repurchase Program In March 2023, the Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $100.0 million of the Companys Common Stock (the Share Repurchase Program). Under the Share Repurchase Program, shares of Common Stock may be repurchased from time to time through open market transactions in compliance with applicable securities laws. The timing, manner, price and amount of any repurchases, as well as the capital resources to fund the repurchases, are determined by the Company at its discretion and depend on a variety of factors, including legal requirements, price and economic and market conditions. Contractual Obligations and Commitments As of March 31, 2023, we had additional operating leases for office space that have not yet commenced with anticipated undiscounted future lease payments of $340.6 million. Refer to Note 13 - Leases of the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further details. Except as set forth above and in Note 11 - Commitments and Contingencies of the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, there have been no material changes outside of the ordinary course of business in the contractual obligations and commitments disclosed in our 2022 Form 10-K. 59 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Critical accounting policies and estimates are those accounting policies and estimates that are both the most important to the portrayal of our net assets and results of operations and require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. These estimates are developed based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Critical accounting estimates are accounting estimates where the nature of the estimates is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account for highly uncertain matters or the susceptibility of such matters to change and the impact of the estimates on financial condition or operating performance is material. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates described under Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of our 2022 Form 10-K. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 2 - Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of our consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q regarding recently issued accounting pronouncements. 60 Table of Contents