ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and related notes included in the IPO Prospectus, the information included under Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the IPO Prospectus, and the unaudited consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q. In addition to historical data, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in our forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including but not limited to those discussed under Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements in this Form 10-Q and under Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2020. References in this Form 10-Q to ZoomInfo Technologies Inc. refer to ZoomInfo Technologies Inc. and not to any of its subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise. References in this Form 10-Q to ZoomInfo, the Company, we, us, and our refer (1) prior to the consummation of the Reorganization Transactions, to ZoomInfo OpCo and its consolidated subsidiaries, and (2) after the consummation of the Reorganization Transactions, to ZoomInfo Technologies Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise. Numerical figures included in this Form 10-Q have been subject to rounding adjustments. Accordingly, numerical figures shown as totals in various tables may not be arithmetic aggregations of the figures that precede them. Overview ZoomInfo is a leading go-to-market intelligence platform for sales and marketing teams. Our cloud-based platform provides highly accurate and comprehensive information on the organizations and professionals they target. This 360-degree view enables sellers and marketers to shorten sales cycles and increase win rates by delivering the right message, to the right person, at the right time, to hit their number. ZoomInfo, formerly known as DiscoverOrg, was co-founded in 2007 by our CEO, Henry Schuck. Henry founded the Company to unlock actionable business information and insights to make organizations more successful. Over time, we developed new and innovative methods for gathering and cleansing data and insights using automated processes to scale our capabilities. In February 2019, we acquired Zoom Information, Inc. (Pre-Acquisition ZI) and subsequently the combined business has been re-branded as ZoomInfo. Pre-Acquisition ZI developed technologies to gather, parse, and match data at massive scale. We combined Pre-Acquisition ZIs technology with our technology to deliver more value to customers with our combined platform that provides broader coverage and higher-quality insights. We offer access to our platform on a subscription basis and we generate substantially all our revenue from sales of subscriptions. Our subscription fees include the use of our platform and access to customer support. Subscriptions generally range from one to three years in length with over 25% of our ACV being under multi-year agreements. We typically bill our customers at the beginning of each annual, semi-annual, or quarterly period and recognize revenue ratably over the term of the subscription period. We sell our ZoomInfo platform to both new and existing customers. Some existing customers continue to renew their subscriptions to pre-acquisition versions of the Pre-Acquisition ZI and DiscoverOrg solutions. We price our subscriptions based on the functionality, users, and records under management that are included in each product edition. Our paid product editions are Elite, Advanced, and Professional, and we have a free Community Edition. 43 Table of Contents Recent Developments Reorganization Transactions ZoomInfo Technologies Inc. was incorporated in November 2019 with no operating assets or operations for the purposes of facilitating an initial public offering of its Class A common stock (the IPO) and other related transactions in order to carry on the business of the operating entity ZoomInfo Holdings LLC (ZoomInfo OpCo) (formerly known as DiscoverOrg Holdings, LLC) following the consummation of the transactions described under Reorganization Transactions in Note 1 to our unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q (the Reorganization Transactions). Following the consummation of the Reorganization Transactions on June 3, 2020, ZoomInfo Technologies Inc. became a holding company, with its sole material asset being a controlling equity interest in ZoomInfo Intermediate Holdings LLC (ZoomInfo HoldCo), which is a holding company with its sole material asset being a controlling equity interest in ZoomInfo OpCo. ZoomInfo Technologies Inc. operates and controls all of our business and affairs, and consolidates the financial results of ZoomInfo OpCo through ZoomInfo HoldCo. Accordingly, ZoomInfo Technologies Inc. reports a non-controlling interest related to the OpCo Units or HoldCo Units held by our Continuing Members in our consolidated financial statements. Initial Public Offering On June 8, 2020, ZoomInfo Technologies Inc. completed the IPO, in which it sold 51,175,000 shares of Class A common stock (including shares issued pursuant to the exercise in full of the underwriters option to purchase additional shares) at a public offering price of $21.00 per share for net proceeds of $1,019.6 million, after deducting underwriters discounts (but excluding other offering expenses and reimbursements). ZoomInfo Technologies Inc. used all of the proceeds from the IPO to (i) purchase 48,528,783 newly issued HoldCo Units from ZoomInfo HoldCo for approximately $966.9 million (which ZoomInfo HoldCo in turn used to purchase the same number of newly issued OpCo Units from ZoomInfo OpCo); (ii) purchase 2,370,948 OpCo Units from certain Pre-IPO OpCo Unitholders for approximately $47.2 million; and (iii) fund $5.5 million of merger consideration payable to certain Pre-IPO Blocker Holders in connection with the Blocker Mergers. To date, ZoomInfo OpCo has used the proceeds it received through ZoomInfo HoldCo from the IPO to (i) redeem and cancel all outstanding Series A Preferred Units of ZoomInfo OpCo for approximately $274.2 million, including accumulated but unpaid distributions and related prepayment premiums; (ii) repay in full all outstanding indebtedness under our second lien credit agreement, for approximately $380.6 million, including related prepayment premiums and accrued interest; (iii) repay $35.0 million of outstanding borrowings under the Companys first lien revolving credit facility; (iv) pay certain expenses related to the IPO; and (v) prepay $100.0 million aggregate principal amount of the first lien term loans outstanding under our first lien credit agreement, including accrued interest thereon, using approximately $101.2 million of the proceeds; with the remaining proceeds intended to be used for general corporate purposes. OpCo Units, HoldCo Units, and Common Stock In connection with the Reorganization Transactions, the limited liability company agreement of ZoomInfo OpCo was amended and restated to, among other things, reclassify its outstanding preferred and common units into a new class of units that we refer to as OpCo Units. A portion of the Class P Units that are held by the Continuing Class P Unitholders remain as Class P Units. Pursuant to the amended and restated limited liability company agreement of ZoomInfo OpCo, the Pre-IPO OpCo Unitholders (or certain permitted transferees) have the right (subject to the terms of such limited liability company agreement) to exchange their OpCo Units (together with a corresponding number of shares of Class B common stock) for shares of our Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis, subject to customary conversion rate adjustments for stock splits, stock dividends, and reclassifications. Pursuant to the amended and restated limited liability company of ZoomInfo HoldCo, the Pre-IPO HoldCo Unitholders (or certain permitted transferees) have the right (subject to the terms of such limited liability company agreement) to exchange their HoldCo Units (together with a corresponding number of shares of Class B common stock) for shares of our Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis, subject to customary conversion rate adjustments for stock splits, stock dividends, and reclassifications. 44 Table of Contents Pursuant to ZoomInfo Technologies Inc.s amended and restated certificate of incorporation, at the option of the holder, a share of Class C common stock may be converted into one share of Class A common stock. In addition, each share of Class C common stock will convert automatically into one share of Class A common stock upon any transfer, whether or not for value, except for certain affiliate transfers described in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation among the Sponsors, the Founders, and their respective affiliates as of the date of the consummation of the IPO. Each share of Class C common stock will also automatically convert into one share of Class A common stock if, on the record date for any meeting of the stockholders, the aggregate number of outstanding shares of our Class B common stock and Class C common stock is less than 5% of our outstanding shares of common stock. Once converted into Class A common stock, Class C common stock will not be reissued. The Pre-IPO OpCo Unitholders and the Pre-IPO HoldCo Unitholders that held voting units before the Offering Transactions and that continue to hold OpCo Units or HoldCo Units, as applicable, hold all of the issued and outstanding shares of our Class B common stock. The shares of Class B common stock have no economic rights but each share entitles the holder to ten votes (for so long as the aggregate number of outstanding shares of our Class B common stock and Class C common stock represents at least 5% of the aggregate number of our outstanding shares of common stock, and thereafter, one vote per share) on all matters on which stockholders of ZoomInfo Technologies Inc. are entitled to vote generally. The Pre-IPO Blocker Holders hold all of the issued and outstanding shares of our Class C common stock. The shares of Class C common stock have the same economic rights as shares of Class A common stock, but each share entitles the holder to ten votes (for so long as the aggregate number of outstanding shares of our Class B common stock and Class C common stock represents at least 5% of the aggregate number of our outstanding shares of common stock, and thereafter, one vote per share upon the automatic conversion of our Class C common stock into shares of Class A common stock) on all matters on which stockholders of ZoomInfo Technologies Inc. are entitled to vote generally. Holders of outstanding shares of our Class A common stock, Class B common stock, and Class C common stock vote as a single class on all matters on which stockholders are entitled to vote generally, except as otherwise required by law. COVID-19 In December 2019, a novel strain of Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) was reported, and in March 2020, the WHO characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in travel restrictions, prohibitions of non-essential activities, disruption and shutdown of certain businesses, and greater uncertainty in global financial markets. Such conditions are creating disruption in global supply chains, increasing rates of unemployment, and adversely impacting many industries. The outbreak could have a continued adverse impact on economic and market conditions and has triggered a period of global economic slowdown. The full impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the global economy is not currently known and the extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic may impact our financial condition or results of operations remain uncertain. Furthermore, because of our largely subscription-based business model, the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic may not be fully reflected in our results of operations and overall financial condition until future periods, if at all. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we expect we may experience slowed growth or decline in new customer demand for our platform or lower demand from our existing customers for upgrades within our platform. We have experienced and may to continue to experience an increase in potential customers seeking lower prices or other more favorable contract terms and current customers attempting to obtain concessions on the terms of existing contracts, including requests for quarterly billing, early termination, or waiver of payment obligations, all of which has adversely affected and could materially adversely impact our business, results of operations, and overall financial condition in future periods. The extent and continued impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operational and financial condition will depend on certain developments, including: the duration and spread of the outbreak; government responses to the pandemic; its impact on the health and welfare of our employees and their families; its impact on our customers and our sales cycles; its impact on customer, industry, or employee events; delays in hiring and onboarding new employees; and effects on our partners and vendors, some of which are uncertain, difficult to predict, and not within our control. 45 Table of Contents In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, in the first quarter of 2020, we temporarily closed all of our offices, including our office in Israel, and enabled our entire work force to work remotely. We have also implemented travel restrictions for non-essential business. These changes remained in effect in the second and third quarters of 2020 and could extend into future quarters. The impact, if any, of these and any additional operational changes we may implement is uncertain, but changes we have implemented to date have not affected and are not expected to materially affect our ability to maintain operations, including financial reporting systems, internal control over financial reporting, and disclosure