ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and related notes included in our 2020 Form 10-K, the information included under Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of our 2020 Form 10-K, and the unaudited consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q. In addition to historical data, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in our forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including but not limited to those discussed under Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements in this Form 10-Q and under Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of our 2020 Form 10-K. References in this Form 10-Q to ZoomInfo Technologies Inc. refer to ZoomInfo Technologies Inc. and not to any of its subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise. References in this Form 10-Q to ZoomInfo, the Company, we, us, and our refer (1) prior to the consummation of the Reorganization Transactions, to ZoomInfo OpCo and its consolidated subsidiaries, and (2) after the consummation of the Reorganization Transactions, to ZoomInfo Technologies Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise. Numerical figures included in this Form 10-Q have been subject to rounding adjustments. Accordingly, numerical figures shown as totals in various tables may not be arithmetic aggregations of the figures that precede them. Overview ZoomInfo is a leading go-to-market intelligence platform for sales and marketing professionals. Our cloud-based platform provides highly accurate and comprehensive information and insights on the organizations and professionals they target, enabling sellers and marketers to shorten sales cycles and increase win rates by delivering the right message, to the right person, at the right time. ZoomInfo, formerly known as DiscoverOrg, was co-founded in 2007 by our CEO, Henry Schuck. Henry founded the Company to unlock actionable business information and insights to make organizations more successful. Over time, we developed new and innovative methods for gathering and cleansing data and insights using automated processes to scale our capabilities. In February 2019, we acquired Pre-Acquisition ZI and subsequently the combined business has been re-branded as ZoomInfo. Pre-Acquisition ZI developed technologies to gather, parse, and match data at massive scale. We combined Pre-Acquisition ZIs technology with our technology to deliver more value to customers with our combined platform that provides broader coverage and higher-quality insights. We offer access to our platform on a subscription basis and we generate substantially all of our revenue from sales of subscriptions. Our subscription fees include the use of our platform and access to customer support. Subscriptions generally range from one to three years in length with over 25% of our ACV being under multi-year agreements. We typically bill our customers at the beginning of each annual, semi-annual, or quarterly period and recognize revenue ratably over the term of the subscription period. We sell our ZoomInfo platform to both new and existing customers. Some existing customers continue to renew their subscriptions to pre-acquisition versions of the Pre-Acquisition ZI and DiscoverOrg solutions. We price our subscriptions based on the functionality, users, and records under management that are included in each product edition. Our paid product editions are Elite, Advanced, and Professional, and we have a free Community Edition. 40 Table of Contents Recent Developments Senior Unsecured Notes Offering In February 2021, ZoomInfo Technologies LLC and ZoomInfo Finance Corp., indirect subsidiaries of ZoomInfo Technologies Inc., completed an offering of $350.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 3.875% senior notes due 2029. We used all of the net proceeds, along with cash on hand, to prepay $356.4 million aggregate principal amount of our first lien term loans outstanding under the first lien credit agreement (the Debt Prepayment). Following the Debt Prepayment, as of February 2, 2021, $400.0 million aggregate principal amount of first lien term loans were outstanding under our first lien credit agreement. First Lien Credit Agreement Amendment In February 2021, ZoomInfo LLC entered into an amendment to our first lien credit agreement, pursuant to which, among other things, there will be (i) an increase in the aggregate commitments to $250.0 million under our first lien revolving credit facility, (ii) the addition of the ZoomInfo Technologies LLC as a co-borrower, (iii) the repricing of our first lien term loan facility maturing in February 2026 and first lien revolving credit facility, and (iv) an extension of the maturity date of our first lien revolving credit facility to November 2025. COVID-19 In December 2019, a novel strain of Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) was reported, and in March 2020, the WHO characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in travel restrictions, prohibitions of non-essential activities, disruption and shutdown of certain businesses, and greater uncertainty in global financial markets. Such conditions have created disruption in global supply chains, increasing rates of unemployment, and adverse impacts for many industries. The outbreak could have a continued adverse impact on economic and market conditions and has triggered a period of global economic slowdown. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we experienced headwinds and tailwinds that impacted our business. In early 2020, we experienced headwinds in some sales cycles as business leaders adapted to the impacts of the pandemic. Customers in heavily impacted industries represented less than 4% of ACV, and in early 2020, we saw heightened cancellations and reductions in spend from this subset of customers relative to pre-COVID time frames. We also experienced longer sales cycles and more intense scrutiny, particularly for larger purchases and upgrades as customers and prospects re-assessed their growth trajectory in light of the changing economic environment. Our sales teams adjusted to the new environment and drove improved sales and retention activity relative to prior year results. These headwinds dissipated during the course of the year and were partially offset by tailwinds we experienced relating to reduced spending on travel, facilities, and marketing events. By the end of 2020, demand for our platform normalized and returned to levels materially consistent with historical trends. The extent and continued impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operational and financial condition will depend on certain developments, including: the duration and spread of the outbreak; government responses to the pandemic including vaccine availability and deployment; its impact on the health and welfare of our employees and their families; its impact on our customers and our sales cycles; its impact on customer, industry, or employee events; delays in hiring and onboarding new employees; and effects on our partners and vendors, some of which are uncertain, difficult to predict, not within our control. Furthermore, because of our largely subscription-based business model, the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic may not be fully reflected in our results of operations and overall financial condition until future periods. To address the safety and health of our employees during the COVID-19 pandemic, in the first quarter of 2020 we temporarily closed all of our offices and enabled our entire workforce to work remotely. These changes remained largely in effect throughout the first quarter of 2021 and could extend into future quarters. The impact, if any, of these and any additional operational changes we may implement is uncertain, but changes we have implemented to date have not affected, and are not expected to materially, affect our ability to maintain operations, including financial reporting systems, internal control over financial reporting, and disclosure