ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and related notes included in our 2020 Form 10-K, the information included under Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of our 2020 Form 10-K, and the unaudited consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q. In addition to historical data, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in our forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including but not limited to those discussed under Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements in this Form 10-Q and under Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of our 2020 Form 10-K. References in this Form 10-Q to ZoomInfo Technologies Inc. refer to ZoomInfo Technologies Inc. and not to any of its subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise. References in this Form 10-Q to ZoomInfo, the Company, we, us, and our refer (1) prior to the consummation of the Reorganization Transactions, to ZoomInfo OpCo and its consolidated subsidiaries, and (2) after the consummation of the Reorganization Transactions, to ZoomInfo Technologies Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise. Numerical figures included in this Form 10-Q have been subject to rounding adjustments. Accordingly, numerical figures shown as totals in various tables may not be arithmetic aggregations of the figures that precede them. Overview ZoomInfo provides a go-to-market platform that combines intelligence, orchestration, and engagement technologies to deliver insight-driven automation that helps sales, marketing, and recruiting professionals succeed. Our products allow sales, marketing and recruiting teams to shorten sales cycles and increase win rates by delivering the right message, to the right person, at the right time, in the right way. We do this by delivering timely competitive intelligence and offering services that make reaching prospects fast and easy. ZoomInfo, formerly known as DiscoverOrg, was co-founded in 2007 by our CEO, Henry Schuck. We have grown our company by developing innovative ways of gathering and improving our data and insights, and using intelligent automation to put those insights into action. Today, our company defines the modern go-to-market technology stack across three distinct layers that build upon each other: Our Intelligence Layer is the foundation of our data-driven strategies. Our best-in-class data, curated through first- and third-party sources, includes millions of data points such as companies, contacts, intent, hierarchy, location, and financial information. Our Orchestration Layer stitches together and enriches our data sources. At this stage, our products assign and route data, leads, and insights to the appropriate people. This creates a living dataset that remains updated and can be used to power automated business workflows. Our services connect with major CRM providers. Our Engagement Layer, which includes services such as Engage, ZI Chat, and Chorus, allows sales, marketing, and recruiting professionals to put our data-driven insights into action by using multiple channels to reach and communicate with prospects and customers. We generate substantially all of our revenue from sales of subscriptions to our platform. Our subscription fees include the use of our platform and access to customer support. Subscriptions generally range from one to three years in length with over 30% of our contracts based on annualized value being under multi-year agreements. We typically bill our customers at the beginning of each annual, semi-annual, or quarterly period and recognize revenue ratably over the term of the subscription period. 49 Table of Contents We sell our ZoomInfo platform to both new and existing customers. Some existing customers continue to renew their subscriptions to pre-acquisition versions of the Pre-Acquisition ZI and DiscoverOrg solutions. We price our subscriptions based on the functionality, users, and records under management that are included in each product edition. Our paid product editions are Elite, Advanced, and Professional, and we have a free Community Edition. Recent Developments Acquisitions In June 2021, the Company acquired all the outstanding equity interests of Insent for a total purchase consideration of $34.0 million, consisting of $32.9 million in cash consideration and $1.1 million in estimated deferred consideration. The purchase price was primarily comprised of acquired technology and goodwill. The Company has included the financial results of this business in the consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. The purchase accounting for this transaction is finalized. In July 2021, the Company acquired substantially all of the net assets of Chorus.ai, a leader in conversation intelligence, for a total purchase consideration of $547.5 million. The purchase price was primarily comprised of acquired technology and goodwill.The Company funded cash payments made at closing with $225.0 million of revolving credit borrowings under the existing First Lien Credit Agreement, and the remainder with cash on hand. The Company has included the financial results of this business in the consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. The purchase accounting for this transaction is not yet finalized. In September 2021, the Company acquired substantially all of the net assets of RingLead for a total purchase consideration of $118.4 million, consisting of $117.3 million in cash consideration and $1.1 million in estimated deferred consideration. The purchase price was primarily comprised of acquired technology and goodwill. The Company has included the financial results of this business in the consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. The purchase accounting for this transaction is not yet finalized. Senior Unsecured Notes Offering In July 2021, ZoomInfo Technologies LLC and ZoomInfo Finance Corp. (collectively, the Issuers), indirect subsidiaries of ZoomInfo Technologies Inc., issued and sold $300.0 million in aggregate principal amount of additional 3.875% senior notes due 2029. The notes were issued under the same indenture as the Issuers existing $350.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.875% senior notes due 2029 (the Existing Notes), which were issued in February 2021, and constitute part of the same series as the Existing Notes. First Lien Credit Agreement Amendment In July 2021, the Company entered into an amendment (the Credit Agreement Amendment) to its existing First Lien Credit Agreement that provided for, among other things, the incurrence of an additional $200.0 million aggregate principal amount of additional term loans under its existing First Lien Credit Agreement. The net proceeds from the Credit Agreement Amendment were used, together with the net proceeds from the offering (the Offering) by the Issuers of $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.875% senior notes due 2029, to (i) repay $225.0 million of outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility which were used to pay a portion of the consideration for the Acquisition, and (ii) pay fees and expenses related to the Credit Agreement Amendment, the Offering and the Acquisition, and the remainder is expected to be used for general corporate purposes. 50 Table of Contents Corporate Structure Simplification Transactions In August 2021, the Company completed a series of reorganization transactions to simplify its corporate structure, including the distribution of shares of common stock of RKSI Acquisition Corp (RKSI) from ZoomInfo Holdings LLC to ZoomInfo HoldCo, the merger of RKSI with and into ZoomInfo HoldCo with ZoomInfo HoldCo surviving, and the merger of ZoomInfo HoldCo with and into the Company with the Company surviving. Prior to the consummation of the HoldCo Merger, all holders of HoldCo Units (other than the Company) exchanged their HoldCo Units and paired shares of Class B common stock of the Company for shares of Class A common stock of the Company pursuant to the terms of the limited liability company agreement of HoldCo. UP-C Corporate Structure and Multi-Class Voting Structure Elimination In September 2021, the Board of Directors unanimously approved streamlining the Companys corporate structure and governance by eliminating the Companys umbrella partnership-C-corporation (UP-C) and multi-class voting structure. In October 2021, the Company implemented this reorganization. Following the implementation, ZoomInfo Technologies Inc. (Old ZoomInfo) became a wholly-owned subsidiary of a new holding company, ZoomInfo NewCo Inc. (New ZoomInfo), which replaced Old ZoomInfo as the public company trading on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under Old ZoomInfos ticker symbol ZI. In addition, New ZoomInfo changed its name to ZoomInfo Technologies Inc. and Old ZoomInfo changed its name to ZoomInfo Intermediate Holdings Inc. Accordingly, upon consummation of the reorganization transaction, Old ZoomInfo stockholders automatically became stockholders of New ZoomInfo, on a one-for-one basis, with the same number and ownership percentage of shares they held in Old ZoomInfo immediately prior to the effective time of the reorganization transaction. COVID-19 In December 2019, a novel strain of Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) was reported, and in March 2020, the WHO characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in travel restrictions, prohibitions of non-essential activities, disruption and shutdown of certain businesses, and greater uncertainty in global financial markets. Such conditions have created disruption in global supply chains, increasing rates of unemployment, and adverse impacts for many industries. The outbreak could have a continued adverse impact on economic and market conditions and has triggered a period of global economic slowdown. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we experienced headwinds and tailwinds that impacted our business. In early 2020, we experienced headwinds in some sales cycles as business leaders adapted to the impacts of the pandemic. Customers in heavily impacted industries represented less than 4% of ACV, and in early 2020, we saw heightened cancellations and reductions in spend from this subset of customers relative to pre-COVID time frames. We also experienced longer sales cycles and more intense scrutiny, particularly for larger purchases and upgrades as customers and prospects re-assessed their growth trajectory in light of the changing economic environment. Our sales teams adjusted to the new environment and drove improved sales and retention activity relative to prior year results. These headwinds dissipated during the course of the year and were partially offset by tailwinds we experienced relating to reduced spending on travel, facilities, and marketing events. By the end of 2020, demand for our platform normalized and returned to levels materially consistent with historical trends. The extent and continued impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operational and financial condition will depend on certain developments, including: the duration and spread of the outbreak; government responses to the pandemic including vaccine availability and deployment; its impact on the health and welfare of our employees and their families; its impact on our customers and our sales cycles; its impact on customer, industry, or employee events; delays in hiring and onboarding new employees; and effects on our partners and vendors, some of which are uncertain, difficult to predict, not within our control. Furthermore, because of our largely subscription-based business model, the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic may not be fully reflected in our results of operations and overall financial condition until future periods. 51 Table of Contents To address the safety and health of our employees during the COVID-19 pandemic, in the first quarter of 2020 we temporarily closed all of our offices and enabled our entire workforce to work remotely. These changes remained largely in effect throughout the third quarter of 2021 and could extend into future quarters. The impact, if any, of these and any additional operational changes we may implement is uncertain, but changes we have implemented to date have not affected, and are not expected to materially, affect our ability to maintain operations, including financial reporting systems, internal control over financial reporting, and disclosure