ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and related notes included in our 2023 Form 10-K, the information included under Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of our 2023 Form 10-K, and the unaudited consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q. In addition to historical data, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in our forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including but not limited to those discussed under Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements in this Form 10-Q and under Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of our 2023 Form 10-K. Numerical figures included in this Form 10-Q have been subject to rounding adjustments. Accordingly, numerical figures shown as totals in various tables may not be arithmetic aggregations of the figures that precede them. Overview ZoomInfo is a global leader in modern go-to-market software, data, and intelligence for sales, marketing, operations, and recruiting teams. Our cloud-based platform delivers comprehensive and high-quality intelligence and analytics to provide sales, marketing, operations, and recruiting professionals accurate information and insights on the organizations and professionals they target. This enables our customers to shorten sales cycles and increase win rates by empowering sellers, marketers, and recruiters to deliver the right message to the right person at the right time in the right way. ZoomInfo defines the modern go-to-market technology stack across three distinct layers that build upon each other: Our Intelligence Layer is the foundation of our data-driven strategy. Our best-in-class data, curated through first- and third-party sources, includes billions of data points about companies and contacts, such as intent, hierarchy, location, and financial information. Our Orchestration Layer integrates and enriches our data sources. At this stage, our products assign and route data, leads, and insights to the appropriate people. This creates a dataset that is continuously updated and can be used to power automated business workflows. Our services connect with major CRM providers. Our Engagement Layer allows sales, marketing, operations, and recruiting professionals to put data-driven insights into action to identify and communicate with prospects and customers. In ZoomInfo Sales, frontline teams, managers, and leaders use Engage for multi-touch and multi-channel sales engagement, as well as Chorus for call and web meeting recording, transcription, insight generation, and coaching. In ZoomInfo Marketing, marketers drive awareness, lead generation, and deal acceleration campaigns through account-based marketing, advertising, and onsite conversion optimization solutions, along with ZoomInfo Chat for intelligent onsite experiences through live conversation and chatbots. In ZoomInfo Talent, recruiters and talent acquisition professionals access a platform that helps them efficiently find candidates. Recruiters can filter and reach more good-fit candidates, use pipeline management tools to collaborate and organize the hiring process, and automate the candidate outreach process. In ZoomInfo Operations, our sales operations customers use a suite of products, services, and solutions to ingest, match, enrich, and connect data feeds into multiple systems. We generate substantially all of our revenue from sales of subscriptions to our platform. Subscriptions include the use of our platform and access to customer support. Subscriptions generally range from one to three years in length. Over 45% of customer contracts (based on annualized value) are multi-year agreements. We typically bill our customers at the beginning of each annual, semi-annual, or quarterly period and recognize revenue ratably over the term of the subscription period. 37 Table of Contents We sell access to our platform to both new and existing customers. We price our subscriptions based on the functionality, users, and records under management that are included in each product edition. Our paid products are ZoomInfo Sales, ZoomInfo Marketing, ZoomInfo Operations, and ZoomInfo Talent (with add-on options for some products). Additionally, customers can gain free access to ZoomInfo through ZoomInfo Lite (formerly Community Edition). Recent Developments Impact of Macroeconomic Conditions Our business and financial condition have and may continue to be impacted by adverse macroeconomic conditions. See Risk Factors - Geopolitical Risks in Part I, Item 1A of our 2023 Form 10-K for further discussion of the possible impact of these issues on our business. Share Repurchase Program In March 2023, the Board authorized a program to repurchase the Companys common stock (the Share Repurchase Program). The total authorization in 2023 and 2024 was $600.0 million and $500.0 million, respectively, of which $546.8 million remained available and authorized for repurchases as of March 31, 2024. Shares of common stock may be repurchased under the Share Repurchase Program from time to time through open market purchases, block trades, private transactions or accelerated or other structured share repurchase programs. The extent to which the Company repurchases shares of common stock, and the timing of such purchases, will depend upon a variety of factors, including market conditions, regulatory requirements and other corporate considerations, as determined by the Company. The Share Repurchase Program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, the Company repurchased and subsequently retired 9,623,255 shares of common stock at an average price of $15.90, for an aggregate $153.1 million. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance We believe that the growth and future success of our business depends on many factors, including the following: Continuing to Acquire New Customers We are focused on continuing to grow the number of customers that use our platform in the United States and around the world. The majority of revenue growth when comparing the three months ended March 31, 2024 to the three months ended March 31, 2023 was the result of new customers added over the last 24 months. Our operating results and growth prospects will depend in part on our ability to continue to attract new customers. Additionally, acquiring new customers strengthens the power of our contributory networks. We plan to continue to invest in our efficient go-to-market effort to acquire new customers. 38 Table of Contents Increasing Usage of Our Platform We believe that expanding the value that we provide to our customers and the corresponding revenue generated as a result is an important measure of the health of our business. We monitor net revenue retention to measure that growth. Net revenue retention is a metric that we calculate based on customers of ZoomInfo at the beginning of the twelve-month period, and is calculated as: (a) the total annual contract value ("ACV") for those customers at the end of the twelve-month period, divided by (b) the total ACV for those customers at the beginning of the twelve-month period. Our net revenue retention rate was 85% as of March 31, 2024. In the near term, we expect our net retention rate to be impacted by macroeconomic conditions. See section "Recent Developments - Impact of Macroeconomic Conditions." We also measure our success in expanding relationships with existing customers by the number of customers that contract for more than $100,000 in ACV. As of March 31, 2024, we had 1,760 customers with over $100,000 in ACV. Components of Our Results of Operations Revenue We derive primarily all of our revenue from subscription services and the remainder from recurring usage-based services and other revenue. Our subscription services consist of our SaaS applications. Pricing of our subscription contracts are generally based on the functionality provided, the number of users that access our applications, and the amount of data that the customer integrates into their systems. Our subscription contracts typically have a term ranging from one to three years and are non-cancelable. We typically bill for services in advance either annually, semi-annually, or quarterly, and we typically require payment at the beginning of each annual, semi-annual, or quarterly period. Subscription revenue is generally recognized ratably over the contract term starting with when our service is made available to the customer. Recurring usage-based revenue is recognized in the period services are utilized by our customers. Other revenue, comprised largely of implementation and professional services fees, is recognized as services are delivered. The amount of revenue recognized reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to receive in exchange for these services. We record a contract asset when revenue recognized on a contract exceeds the billings to date for that contract. Unearned revenue results from cash received or amounts billed to customers in advance of revenue recognized upon the satisfaction of performance obligations. The unearned revenue balance is influenced by several factors, including seasonality, the compounding effects of renewals, invoice duration, invoice timing, dollar size, and contract timing within the period. The unearned revenue balance does not represent the total contract value of annual or multi-year, non-cancelable subscription agreements. Cost of service Cost of service, excluding amortization of acquired technology. Cost of service, excluding amortization of acquired technology, includes direct expenses related to the support and operations of our services and research teams including salaries, benefits, equity-based compensation, and related expenses, such as employer taxes, allocated overhead for facilities, technology, third-party hosting fees, third-party data costs, and amortization of internally developed capitalized software. We anticipate that we will continue to invest in cost of service and that cost of service as a percentage of revenue will remain consistent or modestly decrease as we realize operating leverage in the business. Amortization of acquired technology. Amortization of acquired technology includes amortization expense for technology acquired in business combinations. We anticipate that amortization of acquired technology will increase if we make additional acquisitions in the future. 39 Table of Contents Gross profit and Gross margin Gross profit is revenue less cost of service, and gross margin is gross profit as a percentage of revenue. Gross profit has been and will continue to be affected by various factors, including leveraging economies of scale, the costs associated with third-party hosting services and third-party data, the level of amortization of acquired technology, and the extent to which we expand our customer support and research organizations. We expect that our gross margin will fluctuate from period to period depending on the interplay of these various factors. Operating expenses Our operating expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development, general and administrative, amortization of other acquired intangibles, and restructuring and transaction-related expenses. The most significant component of our operating expenses is personnel costs, which consists of salaries, bonuses, sales commissions, equity-based compensation, and other employee-related benefits. Operating expenses also include overhead costs for facilities, technology, professional fees, depreciation and amortization expense, and marketing. Sales and marketing. Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of employee compensation such as salaries, bonuses, sales commissions, equity-based compensation, and other employee-related benefits for our sales and marketing teams, as well as overhead costs, technology, and marketing programs. Sales commissions and related payroll taxes directly related to contract acquisition are capitalized and recognized as expenses over the estimated period of benefit. We anticipate that we will continue to invest in sales and marketing capacity to enable future growth. We anticipate that sales and marketing expense excluding equity-based compensation as a percentage of revenue will fluctuate from period to period depending on the interplay of our growing investments in sales and marketing capacity excluding equity-based compensation, the recognition of revenue, and the amortization of contract acquisition costs. Research and development. Research and development expenses support our efforts to enhance our existing platform and develop new software products. Research and development expenses primarily consist of employee compensation such as salaries, bonuses, equity-based compensation, and other employee-related benefits for our engineering and product management teams, as well as overhead costs. Research and development expenses do not reflect amortization of internally developed capitalized software. We believe that our core technologies and ongoing innovation represent a significant competitive advantage for us. We anticipate that we will continue to invest in research and development in order to develop new features and functionality to drive incremental customer value in the future and that research and development expense as a percentage of revenue will modestly increase in the short-term, but will modestly decrease in the long-term as we drive efficiencies in that organization. General and administrative. General and administrative expenses primarily consist of employee-related costs such as salaries, bonuses, equity-based compensation, and other employee related benefits for our executive, finance, legal, human resources, IT, and business operations and administrative teams, as well as overhead costs. Additionally, we incur expenses related to bad debt and collections, as well as for professional fees including legal services, accounting, banking, and other consulting services. We also incur charges associated with litigation settlements, such as the Class Action settlement previously disclosed, which are presented within General and administrative on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. We expect general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue to remain consistent or modestly decrease as we realize operating leverage in the business. Amortization of other acquired intangibles. Amortization of acquired intangibles consists of amortization of customer relationships and brand portfolios. We anticipate that amortization of other acquired intangibles will increase if we make additional acquisitions in the future. 40 Table of Contents Restructuring and transaction-related expenses. Restructuring and transaction-related expenses primarily consist of various restructuring and acquisition activities we have undertaken to achieve strategic or financial objectives. Restructuring and acquisition activities include, but are not limited to, consolidation of offices and responsibilities, office relocation, administrative cost structure realignment, and acquisition-related professional services fees. We anticipate that restructuring and transaction expenses, including potential impairments, will be influenced by future acquisition activity, strategic restructuring activities, and the commencement of new leases. Specifically, as new leases commence, we may face increased impairment expenses for spaces that we do not intend to occupy and/or that we plan to sublease, which could cause these costs to vary, potentially significantly, from our historic levels. Refer to Note 11 - Leases for further information. Interest expense, net Interest expense, net represents the interest payable on our debt obligations and the amortization of debt discounts and debt issuance costs, less interest income. We anticipate that interest expense could be impacted by changes in variable interest rates or the issuance of additional debt. Loss on debt modification and extinguishment Loss on debt modification and extinguishment consists of prepayment penalties and impairment of deferred financing costs associated with the modification or extinguishment of debt, as well as new fees incurred with third parties in connection with debt modifications. We anticipate that losses related to debt modification and extinguishment will only occur if we extinguish indebtedness before the contractual repayment dates or amend our existing financing arrangements. Other loss (income), net Other loss (income), net consists primarily of the revaluation of TRA liabilities, investment income, and foreign currency realized and unrealized gains and losses related to the impact of transactions denominated in a foreign currency. Changes to existing tax law including changes to the corporate income tax rates and the Companys state tax footprint could lead to substantial revaluations of the TRA liability recorded through Other loss (income), net. Additionally, the magnitude of Other loss (income), net may increase as we expand operations internationally and add complexity to our operations. Refer to the Provision for income taxes section below for further information. Provision for income taxes The Company recognizes deferred tax assets and liabilities based on temporary differences between the financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities, as well as from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. We evaluate the recoverability of these future deductible temporary differences, net operating losses and credits by assessing the carryforward period and adequacy of future expected taxable income from all sources, including reversing taxable temporary differences, future growth, and forecasted earnings, as well as historical earnings, taxable income in prior years, if carryback is permitted under the law, and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. A valuation allowance is established if it is more likely than not that all or a portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. The Company has significant U.S. deferred tax assets, including deferred tax assets created by various historical restructuring events. The preponderance of our deferred tax assets have long lives or are otherwise indefinite. We regularly review whether it is more likely than not that our U.S. deferred tax assets will be realizable. As of March 31, 2024, a valuation allowance continues to be recorded against certain state-level attributes. 41 Table of Contents The value of our deferred tax assets are regularly remeasured to consider the impact of statutory changes and other guidance, as well as changes in our state income apportionment factors. Given the amount of our deferred tax assets, minor changes can materially affect our Provision for income taxes. A significant portion of our deferred tax assets are associated with our TRA, and upon a remeasurement of our deferred tax assets, the TRA liability is typically concurrently remeasured with a partially offsetting impact within Other loss (income), net on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. We have regularly taken tax positions, including with respect to our various corporate events and restructurings in the ordinary course of determining our Provision for income taxes. We recognize the tax benefit of an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not the position is sustainable upon examination by the taxing authority based on the technical merits. We regularly review our tax positions with consideration of a number of factors, including changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law or guidance, correspondence with tax authorities during the course of audits and effective settlement of audit issues. Changes in the recognition or measurement of uncertain tax positions could result in material increases or decreases in our Provision for income taxes in the period in which we make the change, which could have a material impact on our effective tax rate and operating results. Results of Operations The following table presents our results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023: Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2024 2023 Revenue $ 310.1 $ 300.7 Cost of service: Cost of service(1) 33.9 35.0 Amortization of acquired technology 9.5 10.5 Gross profit $ 266.7 $ 255.2 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing(1) $ 99.4 $ 103.2 Research and development(1) 43.7 42.3 General and administrative(1) 75.1 37.7 Amortization of other acquired intangibles 5.3 5.6 Restructuring and transaction-related expenses 0.2 0.1 Total operating expenses $ 223.7 $ 188.9 Income from operations $ 43.0 $ 66.3 Interest expense, net 10.1 9.9 Loss on debt modification and extinguishment 2.2 Other loss (income), net 3.4 (14.0) Income before income taxes $ 29.5 $ 68.2 Provision for income taxes 14.4 23.7 Net income $ 15.1 $ 44.5 42 Table of Contents __________________ (1)Amounts include equity-based compensation expense, as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2024 2023 Cost of service $ 2.5 $ 4.1 Sales and marketing 11.8 19.5 Research and development 8.8 6.9 General and administrative 8.1 7.2 Total equity-based compensation expense $ 31.2 $ 37.7 Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023 Revenue. Revenue was $310.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, an increase of $9.4 million, or 3%, as compared to $300.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. This increase was primarily due to the addition of new customers over the past 12 months partially offset by cancellations and reduction in spend among certain existing customers. Cost of Service. Cost of service was $43.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, a decrease of $2.1 million, or 5%, as compared to $45.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. Excluding equity-based compensation expenses, cost of service was $40.9 million for three months ended March 31, 2024, a decrease of $0.5 million, or 1%, as compared to $41.4 million for three months ended March 31, 2023. Gross profit. Gross profit for three months ended March 31, 2024 was $266.7 million and represented a gross margin of 86%. Gross profit for three months ended March 31, 2023 was $255.2 million and represented a gross margin of 85%. The increase in gross profit in the three months ended March 31, 2024 relative to the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $11.5 million, or 5%, primarily due to higher revenues. The gross margin improvement in the three months ended March 31, 2024 was due to efficiencies in cost of service. Operating expenses. Operating expenses were $223.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, an increase of $34.8 million, or 18%, as compared to $188.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. Excluding equity-based compensation expenses, operating expenses were $195.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, an increase of $39.7 million, or 26%, as compared to $155.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. Sales and marketing for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $99.4 million, representing a decrease of $3.8 million, or 4%, as compared to $103.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. Sales and marketing, excluding equity-based compensation, for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $87.6 million, representing an increase of $3.9 million, or 5%, as compared to $83.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, primarily due to additional marketing, benefits, facilities, and technology expenses. Research and development for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $43.7 million representing an increase of $1.4 million, or 3%, as compared to $42.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. Research and development, excluding equity-based compensation, for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $34.9 million, representing a decrease of $0.5 million, or 1%, as compared to $35.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. 43 Table of Contents General and administrative for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $75.1 million representing an increase of $37.4 million, or 99%, as compared to $37.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. General and administrative, excluding equity-based compensation, for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $67.0 million, representing an increase of $36.5 million, or 120%, as compared to $30.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, primarily due to charges incurred related to the Class Actions (See Note 9 - Commitments and Contingencies for further information) as well as incremental bad debt accruals. Amortization of other acquired intangibles were $5.3 million, representing a decrease of $0.3 million, or 5%, for the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to $5.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. Restructuring and transaction-related expenses were $0.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to $0.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. Equity-based compensation expense. Equity-based compensation expense was $31.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, a decrease of $6.5 million, or 17%, as compared to $37.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, due to lower grant date fair values of grants being amortized in the current period compared to those that were amortized in the prior year, capitalization of equity-based compensations, and terminations. Income from operations. Income from operations was $43.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, a decrease of $23.3 million, or 35%, as compared to $66.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The decrease was primarily due to costs incurred related to the Class Actions, partially offset by higher revenues. Operating income margin was 14% for three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to 22% for the three months ended March 31, 2023 primarily due to higher operating expenses. Other loss (income), net. Other loss, net was $3.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, which consists of $9.4 million of TRA remeasurement loss, partially offset by $3.7 million of investment income and $2.3 million of gain on foreign currency transactions, as compared to other income of $14.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, which consists of $10.1 million of TRA remeasurement gain and $4.0 million of investment income, offset by $0.1 million of loss on foreign currency transactions. Interest expense, net. Interest expense, net was $10.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, an increase of $0.2 million, or 2%, as compared to $9.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. Provision for income taxes. The Company is subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Provision for income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $14.4 million, representing an effective tax rate of 48.8%, as compared to provision for income taxes of $23.7 million, representing an effective tax rate of 34.8%, for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The decrease in income tax expense was primarily due to a reduction in income before taxes. The annual effective tax rate differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate due to non-deductible equity compensation costs, U.S. state taxes including the remeasurement of deferred tax assets for the effect of state law changes, foreign taxes, tax costs accrued for future repatriations of foreign earnings; partially offset by research and development credits. Refer to Note 14 - Income Taxes of our unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for additional information related to the components of our income tax provision. Net income. Net income was $15.1 million for three months ended March 31, 2024, a decrease of $29.4 million or 66%, as compared to $44.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The decrease was primarily due to costs incurred related to the Class Actions and TRA remeasurement loss, partially offset by higher revenues. 44 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to our results determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, we believe certain non-GAAP measures are useful in evaluating our operating performance. These measures include, but are not limited to, Adjusted Operating Income, Adjusted Operating Income Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, and Adjusted Net Income and are used by management in making operating decisions, allocating financial resources, internal planning and forecasting, and for business strategy purposes. We believe that non-GAAP financial information is useful to investors because it eliminates certain items that affect period-over-period comparability, and it provides consistency with past financial performance and additional information about our underlying results and trends by excluding certain items that may not be indicative of our business, results of operations, or outlook. We view Adjusted Operating Income, Adjusted Operating Income Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, and Adjusted Net Income as operating performance measures. We believe that the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure to Adjusted Operating Income is U.S. GAAP operating income. We believe that the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure to Adjusted Operating Income Margin is U.S. GAAP operating income divided by U.S. GAAP revenue. We believe that the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure to Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Net Income is U.S. GAAP Net Income. Non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the comparable GAAP measures, but rather as supplemental information to our business results. This information should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. There are limitations to these non-GAAP financial measures because they are not prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies due to potential differences in methods of calculation and items or events being adjusted. In addition, other companies may use different measures to evaluate their performance, all of which could reduce the usefulness of our non-GAAP financial measures as tools for comparison. A reconciliation is provided below for each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable financial measure stated in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Adjusted Operating Income, Adjusted Operating Income Margin, and Adjusted Net Income We define Adjusted Operating Income as income (loss) from operations adjusted for, as applicable, (i) the impact of fair value adjustments to acquired unearned revenue, (ii) amortization of acquired technology and other acquired intangibles, (iii) equity-based compensation expense, (iv) restructuring and transaction-related expenses, (v) integration costs and acquisition-related expenses, and (vi) legal settlement. We exclude the impact of fair value adjustments to acquired unearned revenue and amortization of acquired technology and other acquired intangibles, as well as equity-based compensation, because these are non-cash expenses or non-cash fair value adjustments and we believe that excluding these items provides meaningful supplemental information regarding performance and ongoing cash-generation potential. We exclude restructuring and transaction-related expenses, as well as integration costs and acquisition-related compensation, because such expenses are episodic in nature and have no direct correlation to the cost of operating our business on an ongoing basis. We have also excluded charges associated with the litigation settlement related to the Class Actions previously disclosed because we believe it represents an extraordinary litigation expense outside of our ordinary course of business and is not indicative of our operative performance. Adjusted Operating Income is presented because it is used by management to evaluate our financial performance and for planning and forecasting purposes. Additionally, we believe that it and similar measures are widely used by securities analysts and investors as a means of evaluating a companys operating performance. Adjusted Operating Income should not be considered as an alternative to operating income as an indicator of operating performance. 45 Table of Contents We define Adjusted Net Income as net income (loss) adjusted for, as applicable, (i) the impact of fair value adjustments to acquired unearned revenue, (ii) loss on debt modification and extinguishment, (iii) amortization of acquired technology and other acquired intangibles, (iv) equity-based compensation expense, (v) restructuring and transaction-related expenses, (vi) integration costs and acquisition-related expenses, (vii) legal settlement, (viii) TRA liability remeasurement (benefit) expense and (ix) tax impacts of adjustments to net income (loss). Adjusted Net Income is presented because it is used by management to evaluate our financial performance and for planning and forecasting purposes. Additionally, we believe that it and similar measures are widely used by securities analysts and investors as a means of evaluating a companys operating performance. Adjusted Net Income should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of liquidity or as an alternative to operating income or net income as indicators of operating performance. The following table presents a reconciliation of Income from operations to Adjusted Operating Income for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2024 2023 Income from operations (GAAP) $ 43.0 $ 66.3 Impact of fair value adjustments to acquired unearned revenue(1) 0.1 Amortization of acquired technology 9.5 10.5 Amortization of other acquired intangibles 5.3 5.6 Equity-based compensation expense 31.2 37.7 Restructuring and transaction-related expenses(2) 0.2 0.1 Litigation settlement(3) 30.2 Adjusted Operating Income (Non-GAAP) $ 119.4 $ 120.3 Revenue (GAAP) $ 310.1 $ 300.7 Impact of fair value adjustments to acquired unearned revenue 0.1 Revenue for adjusted operating margin calculation (Non-GAAP) $ 310.1 $ 300.8 Adjusted Operating Income Margin (Non-GAAP) 39 % 40 % __________________ (1)Represents the impact of fair value adjustments to acquired unearned revenue relating to services billed by an acquired company, prior to our acquisition of that company. These adjustments represent the difference between the revenue recognized based on managements estimate of fair value of acquired unearned revenue and the receipts billed prior to the acquisition less revenue recognized prior to the acquisition. (2)Represents costs directly associated with acquisition or disposal activities, including employee severance and termination benefits, contract termination fees and penalties, and other exit or disposal costs. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, this expense is primarily related to the accelerated expense of obsolete software purchase commitments. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, this expense is primarily related to costs pursuant to the 2021 and 2022 acquisitions. (3)Represents charges associated with certain legal settlements. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, these charges are related to costs incurred due to the Class Actions. See Note 9 - Commitments and Contingencies for further information. Adjusted Operating Income for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $119.4 million and represented an Adjusted Operating Income Margin of 39%. Adjusted Operating Income for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $120.3 million and represented an Adjusted Operating Income Margin of 40%. The decrease of $0.9 million, or 1%, in Adjusted Operating Income was primarily due to increased general and administrative expenses due to higher bad debt accruals. Adjusted Operating Income Margin decreased to 39% in the three months ended March 31, 2024 from 40% in the three months ended March 31, 2023. 46 Table of Contents The following table presents a reconciliation of Net income to Adjusted Net Income for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2024 2023 Net income (GAAP) $ 15.1 $ 44.5 Impact of fair value adjustments to acquired unearned revenue(1) 0.1 Loss on debt modification and extinguishment 2.2 Amortization of acquired technology 9.5 10.5 Amortization of other acquired intangibles 5.3 5.6 Equity-based compensation expense 31.2 37.7 Restructuring and transaction-related expenses(2) 0.2 0.1 Litigation settlement(3) 30.2 TRA liability remeasurement expense (benefit) 9.4 (10.1) Tax impacts of adjustments to net income(4) (0.4) 9.2 Adjusted Net Income (Non-GAAP) $ 100.5 $ 99.5 __________________ (1)Represents the impact of fair value adjustments to acquired unearned revenue relating to services billed by an acquired company, prior to our acquisition of that company. These adjustments represent the difference between the revenue recognized based on managements estimate of fair value of acquired unearned revenue and the receipts billed prior to the acquisition less revenue recognized prior to the acquisition. (2)Represents costs directly associated with acquisition or disposal activities, including employee severance and termination benefits, contract termination fees and penalties, and other exit or disposal costs. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, this expense is primarily related to the accelerated expense of obsolete software purchase commitments. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, this expense is primarily related to costs pursuant to the 2021 and 2022 acquisitions. (3)Represents charges associated with certain legal settlements. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, these charges related to costs incurred due to the Class Actions. See Note 9 - Commitments and Contingencies for further information. (4)Represents tax expense associated with GAAP Net income excluded from Adjusted Net Income (Non-GAAP). This includes the tax effects associated with equity compensation, remeasurement of deferred tax assets for the effect of state law changes, and TRA liability remeasurement. Adjusted Net Income for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $100.5 million compared to $99.5 million, representing an increase of $1.0 million, or 1%, primarily due to higher operating expenses, partially offset by higher revenues. Adjusted EBITDA EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization. Management further adjusts EBITDA to exclude certain items of a significant or unusual nature, as applicable, including other (income) expense, net, loss on debt modification and extinguishment, impact of certain non-cash items, such as fair value adjustments to acquired unearned revenue and equity-based compensation, restructuring and transaction-related expenses, integration costs and acquisition-related compensation, and legal settlement. We exclude these items because these are non-cash expenses or non-cash fair value adjustments, which we do not consider indicative of performance and ongoing cash-generation potential or are episodic in nature and have no direct correlation to the cost of operating our business on an ongoing basis. Adjusted EBITDA is presented because it is used by management to evaluate our financial performance and for planning and forecasting purposes. Additionally, we believe that it and similar measures are widely used by securities analysts and investors as a means of evaluating a companys operating performance. Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of liquidity or as an alternative to operating income or net income as indicators of operating performance. 47 Table of Contents The following table presents a reconciliation of Net income to Adjusted EBITDA for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2024 2023 Net income (GAAP) $ 15.1 $ 44.5 Provision for income taxes 14.4 23.7 Interest expense, net 10.1 9.9 Loss on debt modification and extinguishment 2.2 Depreciation expense 5.2 4.8 Amortization of acquired technology 9.5 10.5 Amortization of other acquired intangibles 5.3 5.6 Other loss (income), net(1) 3.4 (14.0) Impact of fair value adjustments to acquired unearned revenue(2) 0.1 Equity-based compensation expense 31.2 37.7 Restructuring and transaction-related expenses(3) 0.2 0.1 Litigation settlement(4) 30.2 Adjusted EBITDA (Non-GAAP) $ 124.5 $ 125.1 __________________ (1)Primarily represents revaluations on TRA liability and foreign exchange remeasurement gains and losses. (2)Represents the impact of fair value adjustments to acquired unearned revenue relating to services billed by an acquired company, prior to our acquisition of that company. These adjustments represent the difference between the revenue recognized based on managements estimate of fair value of acquired unearned revenue and the receipts billed prior to the acquisition less revenue recognized prior to the acquisition. (3)Represents costs directly associated with acquisition or disposal activities, including employee severance and termination benefits, contract termination fees and penalties, and other exit or disposal costs. For three months ended March 31, 2024, this expense is primarily related to the accelerated expense of obsolete software purchase commitments. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, this expense is primarily related to costs pursuant to the 2021 and 2022 acquisitions. (4)Represents charges associated with certain legal settlements. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, these charges related to costs incurred due to the Class Actions. See Note 9 - Commitments and Contingencies for further information. Adjusted EBITDA for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $124.5 million, a decrease of $0.6 million, or 0.5%, relative to the three months ended March 31, 2023. This decrease was primarily due to increased operating expenses, partially offset by higher revenues. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2024, we had $405.9 million of cash and cash equivalents, $34.3 million of short-term investments, and $250.0 million available under our first lien revolving credit facility. We have financed our operations primarily through cash generated from operations and financed various acquisitions through cash generated from operations supplemented with debt offerings. We believe that our cash flows from operations and existing available cash and cash equivalents, together with our other available external financing sources, will be adequate to fund our operating and capital needs for at least the next 12 months and for the foreseeable future. We are currently in compliance with the covenants under the credit agreements governing our secured credit facilities, and we expect to remain in compliance with our covenants. We generally invoice our subscription customers annually, semi-annually, or quarterly in advance of our subscription services. Therefore, a substantial source of our cash is from such prepayments, which are included on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as unearned revenue. Unearned revenue consists of billed fees for our subscriptions, prior to satisfying the criteria for revenue recognition, which are subsequently recognized as revenue in accordance with our revenue recognition policy. As of March 31, 2024, we had unearned revenue of $444.3 million, of which $443.0 million was recorded as a current liability and is expected to be recorded as revenue in the next 12 months, provided all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. 48 Table of Contents Our cash flows from operations, borrowing availability, and overall liquidity are subject to risks and uncertainties. We may not be able to obtain additional liquidity on reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, our liquidity and our ability to meet our obligations and to fund our capital requirements are dependent on our future financial performance, which is subject to general economic, financial, and other factors that are beyond our control. Accordingly, our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available from additional indebtedness or otherwise to meet our liquidity needs. If we decide to pursue one or more significant acquisitions, we may incur additional debt or sell additional equity to finance such acquisitions, which would result in additional expenses or dilution. See Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of our 2023 Form 10-K. Historical Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2024 2023 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 115.9 $ 108.6 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 35.4 (19.6) Net cash used in financing activities (192.7) (29.3) Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (41.4) $ 59.7 Cash flows from operating activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $115.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 as a result of net income of $15.1 million, adjusted by non-cash charges of $101.1 million and the net change in our operating and liabilities of $0.3 million. The non-cash charges are comprised of equity-based compensation of $31.2 million, depreciation and amortization of $20.0 million, amortization of deferred commission costs of $17.4 million, a decrease in deferred tax assets net of deferred tax liabilities of $13.2 million, TRA remeasurement of $9.6 million, and provision for bad debt expense of $9.2 million. The net change in operating assets and liabilities was primarily the result of an increase in deferred costs and other assets of $17.6 million, a decrease in accounts payable of $16.9 million, an increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets of $11.9 million, partially offset by a decrease in accounts receivable of $39.3 million and an increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities of $5.5 million. Net cash provided by operations was $108.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 as a result of net income of $44.5 million, adjusted by non-cash charges of $104.2 million and the net change in our operating assets and liabilities of $40.1 million. The non-cash charges are primarily comprised of equity-based compensation of $37.7 million, a decrease in deferred tax assets net of deferred tax liabilities of $27.9 million, depreciation and amortization of $20.9 million, amortization of deferred commission costs of $18.8 million, and provision for bad debt expense of $6.1 million, partially offset by TRA remeasurement of $10.1 million. The net change in operating assets and liabilities was primarily the result of a decrease in accrued expenses and other liabilities of $34.0 million, an increase in deferred costs and other assets of $16.4 million, a decrease in accounts payable of $10.3 million, an increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets of $9.9 million, partially offset by an increase in unearned revenue of $31.5 million. 49 Table of Contents We may make future acquisitions as part of our business strategy which may require the use of capital resources and drive additional future restructuring and transaction-related cash expenditures as well as integration and acquisition-related compensation cash costs. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, and 2023, we incurred the following cash expenditures: Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2024 2023 Interest paid in cash $ 17.7 $ 18.7 Restructuring and transaction-related expenses paid in cash(1) 0.4 0.2 Integration costs and acquisition-related compensation paid in cash(2) 1.3 Litigation settlement payments(3) 0.2 __________________ (1)Represents cash payments directly associated with acquisition or disposal activities, including employee severance and termination benefits, contract termination fees and penalties, and other exit or disposal costs. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, these payments related primarily to obsolete software purchase commitments, Waltham sublease cost and Israel lease impairment charges. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, these payments related primarily to legal costs paid related to 2021 and 2022 acquisitions and Waltham sublease cost. (2)Represents cash payments directly associated with integration activities for acquisitions and acquisition-related compensation, which includes transaction bonuses and retention awards. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, these payments related to deferred compensation from the acquisition of Insent. (3)Represents cash payments associated with legal settlements and associated legal fees. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, these payments related to legal costs incurred due to the Class Actions. See Note 9 - Commitments and Contingencies for further information. Future demands on our capital resources associated with our debt facilities may also be impacted by changes in reference interest rates and the potential that we incur additional debt in order to fund additional acquisitions or for other corporate purposes. Future demands on our capital resources associated with transaction expenses and restructuring activities and integration costs and transaction-related compensation will be dependent on the frequency and magnitude of future acquisitions and restructuring and integration activities that we pursue. As part of our business strategy, we expect to continue to pursue acquisitions of, or investments in, complementary businesses from time to time; however, we cannot predict the magnitude or frequency of such acquisitions or investments. Cash flows from investing activities Net cash provided by investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $35.4 million, consisting of maturities of short-term investments of $48.2 million, partially offset by purchases of property and equipment and other assets of $12.8 million. Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $19.6 million, consisting of purchases of short-term investments of $63.6 million, purchases of property and equipment and other assets of $6.4 million, partially offset by maturities of short-term investments of $50.4 million. As we continue to grow and invest in our business, we expect to continue to invest in property and equipment and opportunistically pursue acquisitions. Cash flows from financing activities Net cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $192.7 million and comprised of payments relating to the repurchase of common stock of $151.0 million, TRA payments of $31.6 million, payments of taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards of $7.1 million, repayment of debt of $1.5 million, payments of debt issuance and modification costs of $0.8 million, and payments of deferred consideration of $0.7 million. 50 Table of Contents Net cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $29.3 million, comprised of payments relating to the repurchase of common stock of $21.9 million, payments of taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards of $4.1 million, payments of debt issuance and modification costs of $2.0 million, repayment of debt of $1.5 million, partially offset by proceeds from exercise of stock options of $0.2 million. Refer to Note 6 - Financing Arrangements of our consolidated financial statements for additional information related to each of our borrowings. Debt Obligations As of March 31, 2024, the aggregate remaining balance of $650.0 million of 3.875% Senior Notes is due, in its entirety, at the contractual maturity date of February 1, 2029. Interest on the Senior Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears beginning on August 1, 2021. As of March 31, 2024, the Company has a remaining balance of $592.5 million with respect to its first lien term loans. The Company is obligated to make principal payments each quarter in the amount of 0.25% of the aggregate initial outstanding amount, with the remaining balance due at the contractual maturity date of February 28, 2030. The foregoing currently represent the only existing required future debt principal repayment obligations that will require future uses of the Companys cash. The first lien term debt has a variable interest rate whereby the Company can elect to use a Base Rate or SOFR plus an applicable rate. The applicable rate is 1.25% for Base Rate loans or 2.25% for SOFR loans. The effective interest rate on the first lien debt was 7.81% and 7.83% as of March 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023, respectively. The first lien revolving credit facility, which had no amount outstanding as of March 31, 2024, has a variable interest rate whereby the Company can elect to use a Base Rate or SOFR plus an applicable rate. The applicable margin is 1.00% to 1.25% for Base Rate loans. The applicable margin for SOFR loans is 2.10% to 2.35%, which includes the credit spread adjustment of 0.1%, depending on the Companys Consolidated First Lien Net Leverage Ratio. Our total net leverage ratio to Adjusted EBITDA is defined as total contractual maturity of outstanding indebtedness less cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, and short-term investments, divided by trailing twelve months Adjusted EBITDA. Adjusted EBITDA for the 12 months ended March 31, 2024 was $517.6 million. Our total net leverage ratio to Adjusted EBITDA as of March 31, 2024 was 1.5x. (in millions, except leverage ratios) Total contractual maturity of outstanding indebtedness $ 1,242.5 Less: Cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, and short-term investments 449.1 Net Debt $ 793.4 Trailing Twelve Months (TTM) Adjusted EBITDA $ 517.6 Total net leverage ratio to Adjusted EBITDA 1.5x 51 Table of Contents Our consolidated first lien net leverage ratio is defined in the agreement governing our existing first lien credit facilities (the First Lien Credit Agreement) as total contractual maturity of outstanding First Lien indebtedness less cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, divided by trailing twelve months Cash EBITDA (defined as Consolidated EBITDA in our Credit Agreements). Cash EBITDA differs from Adjusted EBITDA due to certain defined add-backs, including cash generated from changes in unearned revenue; see table below for reconciliation. Cash EBITDA for the 12 months ended March 31, 2024 was $512.5 million. Our consolidated first lien net leverage ratio as of March 31, 2024 was 0.3x. (in millions, except leverage ratios) Total contractual maturity of First Lien indebtedness $ 592.5 Less: Cash and cash equivalents, and short-term investments 440.2 Net Debt $ 152.3 Trailing Twelve Months (TTM) Cash EBITDA $ 512.5 Consolidated first lien net leverage ratio 0.3x Our total net leverage ratio to Cash EBITDA (defined as Consolidated EBITDA in our Credit Agreements) is defined as total contractual maturity of outstanding indebtedness less cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, and short-term investments, divided by trailing twelve months Cash EBITDA. Cash EBITDA for the 12 months ended March 31, 2024 was $512.5 million. Our total net leverage ratio to Cash EBITDA as of March 31, 2024 was 1.5x. (in millions, except leverage ratios) Total contractual maturity of outstanding indebtedness $ 1,242.5 Less: Cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, and short-term investments 449.1 Net Debt $ 793.4 Trailing Twelve Months (TTM) Cash EBITDA $ 512.5 Total net leverage ratio to Cash EBITDA 1.5x Trailing Twelve Months as of (in millions) March 31, 2024 Net income (GAAP) $ 77.9 Provision for income taxes 272.1 Interest expense, net 45.3 Depreciation expense 19.9 Amortization of acquired technology 38.1 Amortization of other acquired intangibles 21.7 Other income, net(1) (161.4) Loss on debt modification and extinguishment 2.1 Impact of fair value adjustments to acquired unearned revenue(2) 0.1 Equity-based compensation expense 161.1 Restructuring and transaction-related expenses(3) 10.4 Litigation settlement(4) 30.2 Adjusted EBITDA (Non-GAAP) $ 517.6 Unearned revenue adjustment (7.2) Cash rent adjustment 1.7 Other lender adjustments 0.4 Cash EBITDA (Non-GAAP) $ 512.5 52 Table of Contents __________________ (1)Primarily represents revaluations on TRA liability and foreign exchange remeasurement gains and losses. (2)Represents the impact of fair value adjustments to acquired unearned revenue relating to services billed by an acquired company prior to our acquisition of that company. These adjustments represent the difference between the revenue recognized based on managements estimate of fair value of acquired unearned revenue and the receipts billed prior to the acquisition less revenue recognized prior to the acquisition. (3)Represents costs directly associated with acquisition or disposal activities, including employee severance and termination benefits, contract termination fees and penalties, and other exit or disposal costs. For the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2024, this expense related primarily to cost associated with a June 2023 reduction in force, impairment charges related to the Raanana office and other offices, and obsolete software purchase commitments. (4)Represents charges associated with certain legal settlements. For the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2024, these charges related to costs incurred due to the Class Actions. See Note 9 - Commitments and Contingencies for further information. In addition, the credit agreement governing our first lien term loan contains restrictive covenants that may limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. These restrictive covenants include, among others, limitations on our ability to pay dividends or make other distributions in respect of, or repurchase or redeem, capital stock, prepay, redeem, or repurchase certain debt, make acquisitions, investments, loans, and advances, or sell or otherwise dispose of assets. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of substantially all of our debt. The Company may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the credit agreements governing our first lien term loan limit, but do not prohibit, the Company from incurring additional indebtedness, and the additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. These restrictions will also not prevent the Company from incurring obligations that do not constitute Indebtedness as defined in the agreements governing our indebtedness. Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures increased by $6.4 million, or 100%, to $12.8 million for three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023, as a result of increased capitalization of development expenses and variability of timing with respect to facilities projects. Tax Receivable Agreements For information related to our TRA, refer to Note 17 - Tax Receivable Agreements in our 2023 Form 10-K. As of March 31, 2024, the Company had a liability of $2,796.0 million related to its projected obligations under the TRA. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, $31.6 million was paid to TRA holders pursuant to the TRA. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, no payment was made pursuant to the TRA. Contractual Obligations and Commitments As of March 31, 2024, we had additional operating leases for office space that have not yet commenced with anticipated undiscounted future lease payments of $228.1 million. Refer to Note 11 - Leases of the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further details. Except as set forth above and in Note 9 - Commitments and Contingencies of the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, there have been no material changes outside of the ordinary course of business in the contractual obligations and commitments disclosed in our 2023 Form 10-K. 53 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Critical accounting policies and estimates are those accounting policies and estimates that are both the most important to the portrayal of our net assets and results of operations and require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. These estimates are developed based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Critical accounting estimates are accounting estimates where the nature of the estimates is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account for highly uncertain matters or the susceptibility of such matters to change and the impact of the estimates on financial condition or operating performance is material. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates described under Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of our 2023 Form 10-K. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 1 - Business, Basis of Presentation, and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of our consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q regarding recently issued accounting pronouncements. 54 Table of Contents