Item 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors and in other parts of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview Our mission is to make video communications frictionless. 21 Tabl e of Content s We provide a video-first communications platform that delivers happiness and fundamentally changes how people interact. We connect people through frictionless and secure video, voice, chat, and content sharing and enable face-to-face video experiences for thousands of people in a single meeting across disparate devices and locations. Our cloud-native platform delivers reliable, high-quality video that is easy to use, manage, and deploy, provides an attractive return on investment, is scalable, and easily integrates with physical spaces and applications. We believe that rich and reliable communications lead to interactions that build greater empathy and trust. We strive to live up to the trust our customers place in us by delivering a communications solution that just works. Our goal is to make Zoom Meetings better than in-person meetings. Our 17 co-located data centers located worldwide enable us to provide both high-quality and high-definition, real-time video to our customers even in low-bandwidth environments. We generate revenue from the sale of subscriptions to our video-first communications platform. Subscription revenue is driven primarily by the number of paid hosts as well as purchases of additional products, including Zoom Rooms, Zoom Video Webinars, and Zoom Phone. A host is any user of our video-first communications platform who initiates a Zoom Meeting and invites one or more participants to join that meeting. We refer to hosts who subscribe to a paid Zoom Meeting plan as paid hosts. We define a customer as a separate and distinct buying entity, which can be a single paid host or an organization of any size (including a distinct unit of an organization) that has multiple paid hosts. Our Basic offering is free and gives hosts access to Zoom Meetings with core features but with limitations on the number of attendees and time. Our paid offerings include our Pro, Business, and Enterprise plans, which provide incremental features and functionality, such as different participant limits, administrative controls, and reporting. Our revenue was $328.2 million and $122.0 million for the three months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively, representing period-over-period growth rate of 169%. We had net income of $27.1 million and $2.2 million for the three months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Net cash provided by operating activities was $259.0 million and $22.2 million for the three months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Recent Developments COVID-19 In December 2019, an outbreak of the COVID-19 disease was first identified and began to spread across the globe. In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 a pandemic, impacting many countries around the world. Governments have instituted lockdown or other similar measures to slow infection rates. Many organizations have resorted to mandating employees to work from home, which has resulted in these organizations seeking out video communication solutions like ours to keep employees as productive as possible, even while working from home. Schools, colleges, and universities globally have also closed as a result of this pandemic. Many of these institutions are utilizing our platform to provide remote instruction to their students. We have temporarily removed the 40-minute time limit for meetings with more than two participants from our free Basic accounts for K-12 schools in certain countries. All of these factors have driven increased usage of our services and have required us to expand our network and data storage and processing capacity, in both our own co-located data centers as well as through third-party cloud hosting, which is resulting in an increase in our operating costs. Furthermore, a significant portion of the increase in usage of our platform is attributable to free Basic accounts, which do not generate any revenue and require us to incur these additional operating costs to expand our capacity. Therefore, the recent increase in usage of our platform has adversely impacted, and may continue to adversely impact, our gross margin. In addition, there is no assurance that we will experience an increase in paying customers or that new or existing users will continue to utilize our service after the COVID-19 pandemic has tapered. We may see a decline in paying customers and new users when shelter-in-place measures are released, and individuals are no longer working or attending school from home. Acquisition of Keybase In May 2020, we announced the acquisition of Keybase, a secure messaging and file-sharing company. This acquisition helps us strengthen the security of our video communications platform by providing end-to-end encryption expertise that we can leverage as we develop and roll out an end-to-end encryption offering. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance Acquiring New Customers We are focused on continuing to grow the number of customers that use our platform. Our operating results and growth prospects will depend, in part, on our ability to attract new customers. While we believe we have a significant market opportunity that our platform addresses, it is difficult to predict customer adoption rates or the future growth rate and size of the 22 Tabl e of Content s market for our platform. We will need to continue to invest in sales and marketing in order to address this opportunity by hiring, developing, and retaining talented sales personnel who are able to achieve desired productivity levels in a reasonable period of time. Expansion of Zoom Across Existing Customers We believe that there is a large opportunity for growth with many of our existing customers. Many customers have increased the size of their subscriptions as they have expanded their use of our platform across their operations. Some of our larger enterprise customers start with a single deployment of Zoom Meetings with one team, location, or geography, before rolling out our platform throughout their organization. Several of our largest customers have deployed our platform globally to their entire workforce following smaller initial deployments. This expansion in the use of our platform also provides us with opportunities to market and sell additional products to our customers, such as Zoom Phone, Zoom Rooms at each office location, and Zoom Video Webinars. In order for us to address this opportunity to expand the use of our products with our existing customers, we will need to maintain the reliability of our platform and produce new features and functionality that are responsive to our customers requirements for enterprise-grade solutions. We quantify our expansion across existing customers through our net dollar expansion rate. Our net dollar expansion rate includes the increase in user adoption within our customers, as our subscription revenue is primarily driven by the number of paid hosts within a customer and the purchase of additional products, and compares our subscription revenue from the same set of customers across comparable periods. We calculate net dollar expansion rate as of a period end by starting with the annual recurring revenue (ARR) from all customers with more than 10 employees as of 12 months prior (Prior Period ARR). We define ARR as the annualized revenue run rate of subscription agreements from all customers at a point in time. We calculate ARR by taking the monthly recurring revenue (MRR) and multiplying it by 12. MRR is defined as the recurring revenue run-rate of subscription agreements from all customers for the last month of the period, including revenue from monthly subscribers who have not provided any indication that they intend to cancel their subscriptions. We then calculate the ARR from these customers as of the current period end (Current Period ARR), which includes any upsells, contraction, and attrition. We divide the Current Period ARR by the Prior Period ARR to arrive at the net dollar expansion rate. For the trailing 12-months calculation, we take an average of the net dollar expansion rate over the trailing 12 months. Our net dollar expansion rate may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including the level of penetration within our customer base, expansion of products and features, and our ability to retain our customers. Our trailing 12-month net dollar expansion rate in customers with more than 10 employees was greater than 130% as of April 30, 2020 and 2019. Innovation and Expansion of Our Platform We continue to invest resources to enhance the capabilities of our platform. For example, we have recently introduced a number of product enhancements, including new features for Zoom Phone, Zoom Meetings, and Zoom Video Webinars. Third-party developers are also a key component of our strategy for platform innovation, to make it easier for customers and developers to extend our product portfolio with new functionalities. We believe that as more developers and other third parties use our platform to integrate major third-party applications, we will become the ubiquitous platform for communications. We will need to expend additional resources to continue introducing new products, features, and functionality, and supporting the efforts of third parties to enhance the value of our platform with their own applications. International Expansion Our platform addresses the communications needs of users worldwide, and we see international expansion as a major opportunity. Our revenue from the rest of world (APAC and EMEA) represented 25% and 20% of our total revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. We plan to add local sales support in further select international markets over time. We use strategic partners and resellers to sell in certain international markets where we have limited or no sales presence. While we believe global demand for our platform will continue to increase as international market awareness of Zoom grows, our ability to conduct our operations internationally will require considerable management attention and resources, and is subject to the particular challenges of supporting a rapidly growing business in an environment of multiple languages, cultures, customs, legal and regulatory systems, alternative dispute systems, and commercial markets. Key Business Metrics We review the following key business metrics to measure our performance, identify trends, formulate financial projections, and make strategic decisions. Customers with More Than 10 Employees Increasing awareness of our platform and its broad range of capabilities has enabled us to substantially expand our customer base, which includes organizations of all sizes across industries. We define a customer as a separate and distinct 23 Tabl e of Content s buying entity, which can be a single paid host or an organization of any size (including a distinct unit of an organization) that has multiple paid hosts. To better distinguish business customers from our broader customer base, we review the number of customers with more than 10 employees. As of April 30, 2020 and 2019, we had approximately 265,400 and 58,500 customers with more than 10 employees, respectively. When disclosing the number of customers, we round down to the nearest hundred. Customers Contributing More Than $100,000 of Trailing 12 Months Revenue We focus on growing the number of customers that contribute more than $100,000 of trailing 12 months revenue as a measure of our ability to scale with our customers and attract larger organizations to Zoom. Revenue from these customers represented 23% and 29% of revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. As of April 30, 2020 and 2019, we had 769 and 405 customers, respectively, that contributed more than $100,000 of trailing 12 months revenue, demonstrating our rapid penetration of larger organizations, including enterprises. These customers are a subset of the customers with more than 10 employees. Non-GAAP Financial Measure In addition to our results determined in accordance with GAAP, we believe that free cash flow (FCF), a non-GAAP financial measure, is useful in evaluating our liquidity. Free Cash Flow We define FCF as GAAP net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property and equipment. We believe that FCF is a useful indicator of liquidity that provides information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated from our operations that, after investments in property and equipment, can be used for future growth. FCF is presented for supplemental informational purposes only, has limitations as an analytical tool, and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of other GAAP financial measures, such as net cash provided by operating activities. It is important to note that other companies, including companies in our industry, may not use this metric, may calculate this metric differently, or may use other financial measures to evaluate their liquidity, all of which could reduce the usefulness of this non-GAAP metric as a comparative measure. The following table presents a summary of our cash flows for the periods presented and a reconciliation of FCF to net cash used in operating activities, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP: Three Months Ended April 30, 2020 2019 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 258,965 $ 22,236 Less: purchases of property and equipment (7,272) (6,897) Free cash flow (non-GAAP) $ 251,693 $ 15,339 Net cash used in investing activities $ (63,034) $ (1,319) Net cash provided by financing activities $ 228,126 $ 545,252 Components of Results of Operations Revenue We derive our revenue from subscription agreements with customers for access to our video-first communications platform. Our customers do not have the ability to take possession of our software. We also provide services, which include professional services, consulting services, and online event hosting, which are generally considered distinct from the access to our video-first communications platform. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue primarily consists of costs related to hosting our video-first communications platform and providing general operating support services to our customers. These costs are related to our co-located data centers, third-party cloud hosting, integrated third-party public switched telephone network (PSTN) services, personnel-related expenses, amortization of capitalized software development, and allocated overhead. We expect our cost of revenue to increase for the foreseeable future in absolute dollars as we expand our data center capacity and third-party cloud hosting due to increased usage stemming from the COVID-19 pandemic. However, the cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue may decrease over time as we scale our data centers to accommodate usage from our increased customer base. 24 Tabl e of Content s Operating Expenses Research and Development Research and development expenses primarily consist of personnel-related expenses directly associated with our research and development organization, depreciation of equipment used in research and development, and allocated overhead. Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. We plan to increase our investment in research and development for the foreseeable future as we focus on further developing our platform, enhancing its use cases, and strengthening security and privacy. As a result, we expect our research and development expenses to increase both in absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue for the rest of the current fiscal year. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of personnel-related expenses directly associated with our sales and marketing organization. Other sales and marketing expenses include advertising and promotional events to promote our brand, such as awareness programs, digital programs, public relations, tradeshows, and our user conference, Zoomtopia, and allocated overhead. Sales and marketing expenses also include amortization of deferred contract acquisition costs. We plan to increase our investment in sales and marketing over the foreseeable future, primarily from increased headcount in our sales force and investment in brand and product marketing efforts. As a result, we expect our sales and marketing expenses to increase in absolute dollars for the rest of the current fiscal year, although these expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of revenue from quarter to quarter depending on the timing of various events. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel-related expenses associated with our finance, legal, and human resources organizations; professional fees for external legal, accounting, and other consulting services; expected credit losses; insurance; sales and other taxes; and allocated overhead. We expect to increase the size of our general and administrative function to support the growth and complexity of our business. As a result, we expect our general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars for the rest of the current fiscal year. We expect, however, that our general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue will decrease in the near future, and slightly increase for the remainder of the current fiscal year. Interest Income and Other, Net Interest income and other, net consists primarily of interest income and net accretion earned on our marketable securities as well as remeasurement gains or losses on our equity investment. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists primarily of income taxes related to foreign and state jurisdictions where we conduct business. 25 Tabl e of Content s Results of Operations The following tables set forth selected condensed consolidated statements of operations data and such data as a percentage of revenue for each of the periods indicated: Three Months Ended April 30, 2020 2019 (in thousands) Revenue $ 328,167 $ 121,988 Cost of revenue (1) 103,707 24,104 Gross profit 224,460 97,884 Operating expenses: Research and development (1) 26,389 13,783 Sales and marketing (1) 121,556 64,041 General and administrative (1) 53,130 18,503 Total operating expenses 201,075 96,327 Income from operations 23,385 1,557 Interest income and other, net 5,790 973 Net income before provision for income taxes 29,175 2,530 Provision for income taxes 2,100 316 Net income $ 27,075 $ 2,214 (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Cost of revenue $ 3,249 $ 830 Research and development 5,224 1,164 Sales and marketing 17,123 2,627 General and administrative 3,181 2,041 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 28,777 $ 6,662 Three Months Ended April 30, 2020 2019 (as a percentage of revenue) Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 32 20 Gross profit 68 80 Operating expenses: Research and development 8 11 Sales and marketing 37 53 General and administrative 16 15 Total operating expenses 61 79 Income from operations 7 1 Interest income and other, net 2 1 Net income before provision for income taxes 9 2 Provision for income taxes 1 0 Net income 8 % 2 % 26 Tabl e of Content s Comparison of the Three Months Ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 Revenue Three Months Ended April 30, 2020 2019 % Change (in thousands) Revenue $ 328,167 $ 121,988 169 % Revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2020 increased by $206.2 million, or 169%, compared to the three months ended April 30, 2019. D ue to the COVID-19 pandemic, t here was an increase in usage of our services as many organizations and healthcare and educational institutions around the world started utilizing our platform to continue their operations. As a result, the increase in revenue was primarily due to subscription services provided to new customers, which accounted for approximately 71% of the increase, and to subscription services provided to existing customers, which accounted for approximately 29% of the increase. Cost of Revenue Three Months Ended April 30, 2020 2019 % Change (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 103,707 $ 24,104 330 % Gross profit 224,460 97,884 129 % Gross margin 68 % 80 % Cost of revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2020 increased by $79.6 million, or 330%, compared to the three months ended April 30, 2019. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have temporarily removed the 40-minute time limit for meetings with more than two participants from our free Basic accounts for K-12 schools in certain countries. We also experienced a significant increase in usage from paid users as more companies started utilizing our platform to allow their employees to work remotely. This increase in usage resulted in an increase of $70.8 million in costs related to third-party cloud hosting, integrated third-party PSTN services and our co-located data centers to support the increase in customers and expanded use of our video-first communications platform by existing customers. The remaining increase was primarily due to an increase of $7.0 million in personnel-related expenses mainly driven by increased headcount, which includes a $2.4 million increase in stock-based compensation expense. Gross margin decreased to 68% for the three months ended April 30, 2020 from 80% for the three months ended April 30, 2019 . The decrease in gross margin was due to higher incremental cost from leveraging third-party cloud hosting providers to meet the significant increase in usage as well as the higher percentage of usage from free users. Operating Expenses Research and Development Three Months Ended April 30, 2020 2019 % Change (in thousands) Research and development $ 26,389 $ 13,783 91 % Research and development expense for the three months ended April 30, 2020 increased by $12.6 million, or 91%, compared to the three months ended April 30, 2019. The increase was primarily due to higher personnel-related expenses of $10.4 million mainly driven by additional headcount, which includes a $4.1 million increase in stock-based compensation expense . 27 Tabl e of Content s Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended April 30, 2020 2019 % Change (in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 121,556 $ 64,041 90 % Sales and marketing expense for the three months ended April 30, 2020 increased by $57.5 million, or 90%, compared to the three months ended April 30, 2019. The increase in sales and marketing expense was primarily due to higher personnel-related expenses of $38.1 million mainly driven by additional headcount in our sales force to support the increased demand, which includes a $14.5 million increase in stock-based compensation expense and a $3.8 million increase in amortization of deferred contract acquisition costs driven by our increase in revenue. The remaining increase was primarily due to an increase in credit card processing fees of $11.7 million as a result of increased online payments, an increase of $3.5 million in professional services primarily to support the surge in sales, and an increase in allocated overhead of $2.2 million. General and Administrative Three Months Ended April 30, 2020 2019 % Change (in thousands) General and administrative $ 53,130 $ 18,503 187 % General and administrative expense for the three months ended April 30, 2020 increased by $34.6 million, or 187%, compared to the three months ended April 30, 2019. The increase in general and administrative expense was primarily due to a one-time payment to MPEGLA of $9.8 million , higher personnel-related expenses of $6.4 million mainly driven by additional headcount, which includes a $1.1 million increase in stock-based compensation expense, an increase of $4.3 million related to a contingent liability for sales and other indirect tax, an increase of $4.1 million in professional services composed primarily of legal and other consulting fees , an increase of $2.4 million related to charitable donations mainly related to COVID-19, an increase of $2.3 million related to insurance expenses, an increase of $1.9 million in expenses due to fluctuation in exchange rates, and an increase of $1.8 million in expensed equipment and software. Interest Income and Other, Net Three Months Ended April 30, 2020 2019 % Change (in thousands) Interest income and other, net $ 5,790 $ 973 495 % Interest income and other, net for the three months ended April 30, 2020 increased by $4.8 million, or 495%, compared to the three months ended April 30, 2019. The increase was primarily due to a gain of $2.5 million related to the remeasurement of our equity investment and an additional $2.4 million in interest income earned from our investments in marketable securities. Provision for Income Taxes Three Months Ended April 30, 2020 2019 % Change (in thousands) Provision for income taxes $ 2,100 $ 316 565 % Provision for income taxes for the three months ended April 30, 2020 increased by $1.8 million , or 565%, compared to the three months ended April 30, 2019. The change in provision for income taxes was primarily due to increases in income attributable to foreign operations. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of April 30, 2020, our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities of $1.1 billion , which were held for working capital purposes. Our marketable securities generally consist of high-grade commercial paper, corporate bonds, agency bonds, corporate and other debt securities, U.S. government agency securities, and treasury bills. 28 Tabl e of Content s We have financed our operations primarily through customer payments and sales of equity securities. Cash from operations could also be affected by various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, including timing of cash collections from our customers and other risks detailed in the section titled Risk Factors. However, based on our current business plan and revenue prospects, we believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, together with net cash provided by operations, will be sufficient to meet our needs for at least the next 12 months, including the payment of the total purchase consideration for the acquisition of Keybase from existing cash and cash equivalents balances. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our revenue growth rate, subscription renewal activity, billing frequency, the timing and extent of spending to support further sales and marketing and research and development efforts, as well as expenses associated with our international expansion, and the timing and extent of additional capital expenditures to invest in existing and new office spaces. We may, in the future, enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services, and technologies, including intellectual property rights. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended April 30, 2020 2019 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 258,965 $ 22,236 Net cash used in investing activities $ (63,034) $ (1,319) Net cash provided by financing activities $ 228,126 $ 545,252 Operating Activities Our largest source of operating cash is cash collections from our customers for subscriptions to our platform. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for employee-related expenditures, costs related to hosting our platform, and marketing expenses. Net cash provided by operating activities is impacted by our net income adjusted for certain non-cash items, such as stock-based compensation, depreciation and amortization expenses, as well as the effect of changes in operating assets and liabilities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $259.0 million for the three months ended April 30, 2020, compared to $22.2 million for the three months ended April 30, 2019. The increase in operating cash flow was due to the positive impact from changes in operating assets and liabilities of $175.8 million, an increase in net income of $24.9 million, and an increase in non-cash adjustments of $36.1 million. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities of $63.0 million for the three months ended April 30, 2020 was primarily due to net purchases of marketable securities of $43.9 million, purchase of an equity investment of $8.0 million, purchases of property and equipment of $7.3 million, and purchase of a convertible note of $5.0 million . Net cash used in investing activities of $1.3 million for the three months ended April 30, 2019 was primarily due to purchases of property and equipment of $6.9 million, partially offset by maturities of marketable securities, net of purchases, of $5.6 million. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities of $228.1 million for the three months ended April 30, 2020 was primarily due to proceeds from international employee stock sales to be remitted to employees and tax authorities, net, of $218.5 million and proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $9.6 million. Net cash provided by financing activities of $545.3 million for the three months ended April 30, 2019 was primarily due to proceeds from the issuance of Class A common stock in connection with the IPO, net of underwriting discounts and commissions and other offering costs, of $543.5 million, and the exercise of stock options, net of repurchases, of $1.8 million. 29 Tabl e of Content s Commitments and Contractual Obligations As of April 30, 2020, we had additional outstanding non-cancelable purchase obligations with a term of 12 months or longer of $18.0 million, related to third-party cloud hosting to meet the significant increase in usage of our services. As of April 30, 2020, we also had additional operating leases for office space that have not yet commenced with undiscounted future lease payments of $8.9 million. Additionally, we entered into a license agreement with MPEGLA in May 2020 to obtain the rights for future use of licensed intellectual property in exchange for periodic royalty payments. In connection with the license agreement, we agreed to make a royalty payment of $9.8 million to use the technology until December 31, 2020. In addition, we also agreed to make a one-time payment of $9.8 million for past use, which was recorded in general and administrative expenses in our condensed consolidated statements of operations for the three months ended April 30, 2020. There have been no other material changes to our contractual obligations and commitments from those disclosed in our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2020, filed with the SEC on March 20, 2020. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Through April 30, 2020, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated organizations or financial partnerships, such as structured finance or special-purpose entities that would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Critical accounting policies and estimates are those accounting policies and estimates that are both the most important to the portrayal of our net assets and results of operations and require the most difficult, subjective, or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. These estimates are developed based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Critical accounting estimates are accounting estimates where the nature of the estimates are material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account for highly uncertain matters or the susceptibility of such matters to change, and the impact of the estimates on financial condition or operating performance is material. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates described in our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2020, filed with the SEC on March 20, 2020, except for the allowance for credit losses policy and the investment policy related to the adoption of ASU No. 2016-13 as described in Note 1 to the condensed consolidated financial statements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Summary of Business and Significant Accounting Policies in Note 1 of the notes to our condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q.