Item 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 24 Table of Contents You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors and in other parts of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview Our mission is to make video communications frictionless and secure. Zoom enables people to connect to others, share ideas, make plans, and build toward a future limited only by their imagination. Our frictionless communications platform started with video as its foundation, and we have set the standard for innovation ever since. We connect people through our core unified communications offering, which frictionlessly brings together phone, chat, video, whiteboarding, and webinars, and enables meaningful experiences across disparate devices and locations. Our Developer Platform enables customers, developers, and service providers to easily build apps and integrations on top of Zooms industry-leading video communications platform, with opportunities for global discovery and distribution. Our virtual and hybrid event solutions allow users to seamlessly create and manage engaging events. Our Contact Center is an omnichannel contact center solution that is optimized for video and integrated right into the Zoom client. We believe that face-to-face communications build greater empathy and trust. We strive to live up to the trust our customers place in us by delivering a communications solution while prioritizing their privacy and security. Our 27 co-located data centers worldwide and the public cloud in conjunction with our proprietary adaptive rate codec enable us to provide both high-quality and high-definition, real-time video to our customers even in low-bandwidth environments. We generate revenue from the sale of subscriptions to our unified communications platform. Subscription revenue is driven primarily by the number of paid hosts as well as purchases of additional products, including Rooms, Webinars, Phone, Events, Contact Center, and Hardware-as-a-Service (HaaS) for rooms and phones. A host is any user of our unified communications platform who initiates a Zoom Meeting and invites one or more participants to join that meeting. We refer to hosts who subscribe to a paid Zoom Meeting plan as paid hosts. We define a customer as a separate and distinct buying entity, which can be a single paid user or host or an organization of any size (including a distinct unit of an organization) that has multiple paid hosts. Our Zoom One Basic offering is free and gives hosts access to Zoom Meetings with core features but with the limitation that meetings time-out at 40 minutes. Our core paid offerings are available with our Zoom One bundles: Zoom One Pro, Business, Business Plus, Enterprise, and Enterprise Plus. The Zoom One bundles are designed for different business needs and are composed of Zoom Meetings, Zoom Phone, Zoom Chat, Zoom Whiteboard as well as Zoom Webinars and Zoom Rooms for our Enterprise plans. We also offer vertical-specific plans for Education and Healthcare, which provide incremental features and functionality, such as different participant limits, administrative controls, and reporting. For Zoom Phone, plans include Zoom Phone Pro, which provides extension-to-extension calling or can be used with the Bring Your Own Carrier model wherein the customer connects Zoom Phone to an existing carrier. We also offer Regional Unlimited and Regional Metered calling plans in four specific markets (United States/Canada, United Kingdom/Ireland, Australia/New Zealand, and Japan). In addition, we introduced the Global Select plan in August 2020, which allows customers to select from local numbers and domestic calling in more than 45 countries and territories where Zoom has local public switched telephone network (PSTN) coverage. Our revenue was $1,099.5 million and $1,021.5 million for the three months ended July 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, representing period-over-period growth of 7.6%. We had net income of $45.8 million and $317.1 million for the three months ended July 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Our revenue was $2,173.3 million and $1,977.7 million for the six months ended July 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, representing period-over-period growth of 9.9%. We had net income of $159.4 million and $544.6 million for the six months ended July 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Net cash provided by operating activities was $783.4 million and $1,001.3 million for the six months ended July 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Recent Developments On May 19, 2022, we acquired 100% of the issued and outstanding share capital of Solvvy, Inc., a private technology company specializing in customer support automation, for purchase consideration of $121.2 million in cash. The acquisition adds to our customer service capabilities and enhances our integrated platform by providing conversational AI capabilities. Macroeconomic Conditions and Other Factors Recent changes in macroeconomic conditions such as high inflation, recessionary environments, and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, can cause uncertainty in our business. For the three months ended July 31, 2022, we experienced continued growth in total revenue and revenue from Enterprise customers. However, macroeconomic conditions, 25 Table of Contents including inflation and continued uncertainty regarding the current and future political and economic environment, may impact the future demand for subscriptions to our unified communications platform. For example, for the three months ended July 31, 2022, we experienced unfavorable foreign currency impact as a result of the continued strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign jurisdictions where we do a significant amount of business. During the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, many organizations resorted to mandating employees to work from home, which has resulted in these organizations seeking out video communication solutions like ours to keep employees as productive as possible, even while working from home. There is no assurance that we will experience an increase in paid hosts or that new or existing users will continue to utilize our service after the COVID-19 pandemic has tapered globally. Moreover, the tapering of the COVID-19 pandemic may result in a decline in paid hosts and users once individuals are no longer working or attending school from home. As of July 31, 2022, many of our employees have returned to our offices for at least part of the week. Our return to work approach may vary among geographies depending on appropriate health protocols, and may change at any time depending on the severity of or spikes in COVID-19 cases. The impact, if any, of these and any additional operational changes we may implement is uncertain, but changes we have implemented have not affected and are not expected to affect our ability to maintain operations, including financial reporting systems, internal control over financial reporting and disclosure