ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and related notes included in our 2021 Form 10-K, the information included under Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of our 2021 Form 10-K, and the unaudited consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q. In addition to historical data, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in our forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including but not limited to those discussed under Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements in this Form 10-Q and under Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of our 2021 Form 10-K. References in this Form 10-Q to ZoomInfo Technologies Inc. refer to ZoomInfo Technologies Inc. and not to any of its subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise. References in this Form 10-Q to ZoomInfo, the Company, we, us, and our refer (1) prior to the consummation of the Reorganization Transactions, to ZoomInfo OpCo and its consolidated subsidiaries, and (2) after the consummation of the Reorganization Transactions, to ZoomInfo Technologies Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise. Numerical figures included in this Form 10-Q have been subject to rounding adjustments. Accordingly, numerical figures shown as totals in various tables may not be arithmetic aggregations of the figures that precede them. Overview ZoomInfo is a global leader in modern go-to-market software, data, and intelligence for sales, marketing, operations and recruiting professionals teams. RevOS our modern, cloud-based operating system for revenue professionals allows sales, marketing, operations, and recruiting teams to shorten sales cycles and increase win rates by delivering the right message to the right person, at the right time, in the right way. We do this by delivering timely competitive intelligence and offering services that make reaching prospects fast and easy. ZoomInfo, formerly known as DiscoverOrg, was co-founded in 2007 by our CEO, Henry Schuck. We have grown our company by developing innovative ways of gathering and improving our data and insights, and using intelligent automation to put those insights into action. Today, our company defines the modern go-to-market technology stack across three distinct layers that build upon each other: Our Intelligence Layer is the foundation of our data-driven strategies. Our best-in-class data, curated through first- and third-party sources, includes billions of data points about companies and contacts, such as intent, hierarchy, location, and financial information. Our Orchestration Layer stitches together and enriches our data sources. At this stage, our products assign and route data, leads, and insights to the appropriate people. This creates a living dataset that is continuously updated and can be used to power automated business workflows. Our services connect with major CRM providers. Our Engagement Layer allows sales, marketing, operations, and recruiting professionals to put data-driven insights into action to reach, influence, and communicate with prospects and customers. In MarketingOS, marketers drive awareness, lead generation, and deal acceleration campaigns through account-based-marketing, advertising, and onsite conversion optimization tools as well as Chat for intelligent onsite experiences through live chat and chatbots. In SalesOS, frontline teams, managers, and leaders use Engage for multi-touch and multi-channel sales engagement as well as Chorus for call and web meeting recording, transcription, insight generation and coaching. 46 Table of Contents We generate substantially all of our revenue from sales of subscriptions to our platform. Our subscription fees include the use of our platform and access to customer support. Subscriptions generally range from one to three years in length, and over 35% of our contracts (based on annualized value) are multi-year agreements. We typically bill our customers at the beginning of each annual, semi-annual, or quarterly period and recognize revenue ratably over the term of the subscription period. We sell our software to both new and existing customers. A limited number of customers continue to renew their subscriptions to pre-acquisition versions of the Pre-Acquisition ZI and DiscoverOrg solutions. We price our subscriptions based on the functionality, users, and records under management that are included in each product edition. Our paid platforms are SalesOS, MarketingOS, OperationsOS, TalentOS (with add-on options for some platforms), and we have a free Community Edition. Recent Developments COVID-19 The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic continues to have unpredictable and rapidly shifting impacts on global financial markets, economies, and business practices. The extent and continued impact of the pandemic on our operational and financial condition will depend on certain developments, including, but not limited to: the duration and spread of the outbreak, including the impact of new variants of the COVID-19 virus; global government responses to the pandemic, including continued vaccine availability, deployment, and efficacy; the impact on the health and welfare of our employees and their families; the impact on our customers and our sales cycles; the impact on customer, industry, or employee events; delays in hiring and onboarding new employees; and the effects on our partners, vendors, the labor market, and supply chains, all of which are uncertain and cannot be predicted. Furthermore, because of our largely subscription-based business model, the effect of the pandemic may not be fully reflected in our results of operations and overall financial condition until future periods, if at all. To address the safety and health of our employees during the pandemic, in the first quarter of 2020 we temporarily closed all of our offices and enabled our entire workforce to work remotely. Throughout 2021 and the first quarter of 2022, most of our workforce continued to work remotely. The impact, if any, of these and any additional operational changes we may implement is uncertain, but changes we have implemented to date have not affected, and are not expected to materially affect, our ability to maintain operations, including financial reporting systems, internal control over financial reporting, and disclosure