Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and with our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on September13, 2018 . As discussed in the section titled "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed below. Factors that could cause or contribute to such difference include, but are not limited to, those identified below and those discussed in the section titled "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Our fiscal year end is July 31, and our fiscal quarters end on October 31, January 31, April 30 and July 31. Our fiscal year ended July 31, 2018 is referred to as fiscal 2018 and our fiscal year ending July 31, 2019 is referred to as fiscal 2019. Overview Zscaler was incorporated in 2007, during the early stages of cloud adoption and mobility, based on a vision that the internet would become the new corporate network as the cloud becomes the new data center. We predicted that with rapid cloud adoption and increasing workforce mobility, traditional perimeter security approaches would provide inadequate protection for users and data and an increasingly poor user experience. We pioneered a security cloud that represents a fundamental shift in the architectural design and approach to network security. We generate revenue primarily from sales of subscriptions to access our cloud platform, together with related support services. We also generate an immaterial amount of revenue from professional and other services, which consist primarily of fees associated with mapping, implementation, network design and training. Our subscription pricing is calculated on a per-user basis. We recognize subscription and support revenue ratably over the life of the contract, which is generally one to three years. As of July 31, 2018 , we had expanded our operations to over 3,250 customers across every major industry, with users in 185 countries. Government agencies and some of the largest enterprises in the world rely on us to help them transform to the cloud, including more than 300 of the Forbes Global 2000. We operate our business as one reportable segment. Our revenue has experienced significant growth, with revenue increasing from $39.9 million in the three months ended October 31, 2017 to $63.3 million in the three months ended October 31, 2018 , representing year-over-year revenue growth of 59% . However, we have incurred net losses in all periods since our inception. Our net loss decreased from $11.4 million for the three months ended October 31, 2017 to $7.6 million for the three months ended October 31, 2018 . We expect we will continue to incur net losses for the foreseeable future, as we continue investing in our sales and marketing organization to take advantage of our market opportunity, continue to invest in research and development efforts to enhance the functionality of our cloud platform, continue to incur additional compliance and other related costs as we operate as a public company, and deal with ongoing legal matters and related accruals, certain of which are described in further detail Note 6 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Initial Public Offering In March 2018, we completed our IPO of common stock, in which we sold 13,800,000 shares. The shares were priced at an IPO price of $16.00 per share for net proceeds of $205.3 million , after deducting underwriters discounts and commissions of $15.5 million . In connection with the IPO, we incurred deducting offering costs of $6.5 million which were recorded in stockholders equity (deficit) as a reduction of the net proceeds received from the IPO. Immediately prior to the closing of the IPO, all our outstanding shares of preferred stock were automatically converted into 72,500,750 shares of common stock on a one-to-one basis. 29 Certain Factors Affecting Our Performance Increased Internet Traffic and Adoption of Cloud-Based Software and Security The adoption of cloud applications and infrastructure, explosion of internet traffic volumes and shift to mobile-first computing generally, and the pace at which enterprises adopt the internet as their corporate network in particular, impact our ability to drive market adoption of our cloud platform. We believe that most enterprises are in the early stages of a broad transformation to the cloud. Organizations are increasingly relying on the internet to operate their businesses, deploying new SaaS applications and migrating internally managed line-of-business applications to the cloud. However, the growing dependence on the internet has increased exposure to malicious or compromised websites, and sophisticated hackers are exploiting the gaps left by legacy network security appliances. To securely access the internet and transform their networks, organizations must also make fundamental changes in their network and security architectures. We believe that most organizations have yet to fully make these investments. Since we enable organizations to securely transform to the cloud, we believe that the imperative for organizations to securely move to the cloud will increase demand for our cloud platform and broaden our customer base. New Customer Acquisition We believe that our ability to increase the number of customers on our cloud platform is an indicator of our market penetration and our future business opportunities. As of July 31, 2018 and 2017 , we had over 3,250 customers and over 2,800 customers, respectively, across all major geographies. As of July 31, 2018 , we had over 300 of the Forbes Global 2000 as customers. Our ability to continue to grow this number will increase our future opportunities for renewals and follow-on sales. We believe that we have significant room to capture additional market share and intend to continue to invest significantly in sales and marketing to engage our prospective customers, increase brand awareness, further leverage our channel partnerships and drive adoption of our solution. Follow-On Sales We typically expand our relationship with our customers over time. While most of our new customers route all of their internet-bound web traffic through our cloud platform, some of our customers initially use our services for specific users or specific security functionality. We leverage our land-and-expand model with the goal of generating incremental revenue, often within the term of the initial subscription, by increasing sales to our existing customers in one of three ways: expanding deployment of our cloud platform to cover additional users; upgrading to a more advanced Business, Transformation or Secure Transformation suite; and selling a ZPA subscription to a ZIA customer, a ZIA subscription to a ZPA customer, or other features on an a la carte basis. Investing in Business Growth Since our founding, we have invested significantly in growing our business. We intend to continue to invest in our research and development organization, our development efforts to offer new solutions on our platform and to continue dedicating resources to update and upgrade our existing solutions. We also intend to continue to invest significantly in sales and marketing to grow and train our sales force. Although we have a channel sales model, we use a joint sales approach in which our sales force develops relationships directly with our customers. We also are investing in programs to increase recognition of our brand and solutions, including joint marketing activities with our channel partners and strategic partners. In addition, we expect our general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future to support our growth, as a result of additional costs associated with ongoing legal matters and related accruals, and in connection with accounting, compliance and investor relations as a public company. 30 Key Business Metrics and Other Financial Measures We review a number of operating and financial metrics, including the following key metrics, to measure our performance, identify trends, formulate business plans and make strategic decisions. Dollar-Based Net Retention Rate We believe that dollar-based net retention rate is a key metric to measure the long-term value of our customer relationships because it is driven by our ability to retain and expand the recurring revenue generated from our existing customers. Our dollar-based net retention rate compares the recurring revenue from a set of customers against the same metric for the prior 12-month period on a trailing basis. Because our customers have repeat buying patterns and the average term of our contracts is more than 12 months, we measure this metric over a set of customers who were with us as of the last day of the same reporting period in the prior fiscal year. Our dollar-based net retention rate includes customer attrition. We have not experienced a material increase in customer attrition rates in recent periods. We calculate our dollar-based net retention rate as follows: Denominator: To calculate our dollar-based net retention rate as of the end of a reporting period, we first establish the annual recurring revenue, or ARR, from all active subscriptions as of the last day of the same reporting period in the prior fiscal year. This effectively represents recurring dollars that we expect in the next 12-month period from the cohort of customers that existed on the last day of the same reporting period in the prior fiscal year. Numerator: We measure the ARR for that same cohort of customers representing all subscriptions based on confirmed customer orders booked by us as of the end of the reporting period. Dollar-based net retention rate is obtained by dividing the numerator by the denominator. Our dollar-based net retention rate may fluctuate due to a number of factors, including the performance of our cloud platform, the rate of ARR expansion of our existing customers, potential changes in our rate of renewals and other risk factors described in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Trailing 12 Months Ended October 31, 2018 Trailing 12 Months Ended October 31, 2017 Dollar-based net retention rate 118% 116% Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to our results determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, we believe the following non-GAAP measures are useful in evaluating our operating performance. We use the following non-GAAP financial information to evaluate our ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes. We believe that non-GAAP financial information, when taken collectively, may be helpful to investors because it provides consistency and comparability with past financial performance. However, non-GAAP financial information is presented for supplemental informational purposes only, has limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. In particular, free cash flow is not a substitute for cash used in operating activities. Additionally, the utility of free cash flow as a measure of our liquidity is further limited as it does not represent the total increase or decrease in our cash balance for a given period. In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate similarly-titled non-GAAP measures differently or may use other measures to evaluate their performance, all of which could reduce the usefulness of our non-GAAP financial measures as tools for comparison. A reconciliation is provided below for each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable financial measure stated in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Investors are encouraged to review 31 the related GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, and not to rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business. Non-GAAP Gross Profit and Non-GAAP Gross Margin We define non-GAAP gross profit as GAAP gross profit excluding stock-based compensation expense. We define non-GAAP gross margin as non-GAAP gross profit as a percentage of revenue. Three Months Ended October 31, 2018 2017 (in thousands) Gross profit $ 51,199 $ 31,590 Add: Stock-based compensation expense included in cost of revenue 503 109 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 51,702 $ 31,699 Gross margin 81 % 79 % Non-GAAP gross margin 82 % 80 % Non-GAAP Income (Loss) from Operations and Non-GAAP Operating Margin We define non-GAAP income (loss) from operations as GAAP loss from operations excluding stock-based compensation expense, certain litigation-related expenses and amortization expense of acquired intangible assets . We define non-GAAP operating margin as non-GAAP income (loss) from operations as a percentage of revenue. These excluded litigation-related expenses are professional fees and related costs incurred by us in defending against significant claims that we deem not to be in the ordinary course of our business and, if applicable, accruals related to estimated losses in connection with these claims. There are many uncertainties and potential outcomes associated with any litigation, including the expense of litigation, timing of such expenses, court rulings, unforeseen developments, complications and delays, each of which may affect our results of operations from period to period, as well as the unknown magnitude of the potential loss relating to any lawsuit, all of which are inherently subject to change, difficult to estimate and could adversely affect our results of operations. Three Months Ended October 31, 2018 2017 (in thousands) Loss from operations $ (8,663 ) $ (11,277 ) Add: Stock-based compensation expense 7,586 1,733 Add: Litigation-related expenses 2,174 2,146 Add: Amortization expense of acquired intangible assets 95 Non-GAAP income (loss) from operations $ 1,192 $ (7,398 ) Operating margin (14 )% (28 )% Non-GAAP operating margin 2 % (19 )% Free Cash Flow and Free Cash Flow Margin Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure that we calculate as net cash used in operating activities less purchases of property and equipment and capitalized internal-use software. Free cash flow margin is calculated as free cash flow divided by revenue. We believe that free cash flow and free cash flow margin are useful indicators of liquidity that provide information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated from our operations that, after the investments in property and equipment and capitalized internal-use software, can be used for strategic initiatives, including investing in our business, and strengthening our financial position. 32 Free cash flow includes the cyclical impact of inflows and outflows resulting from contributions to our employee stock purchase plan for which the purchase period of approximately six months ends in each of our second and fourth fiscal quarter. As of October 31, 2018 , the employee contributions to our employee stock purchase plan was $7.8 million , which will be reclassified to stockholders' equity upon issuance of the shares during our second quarter of fiscal 2019. Three Months Ended October 31, 2018 2017 (in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 11,014 $ (4,352 ) Less: Purchases of property and equipment (5,414 ) (4,010 ) Less: Capitalized internal-use software (356 ) (534 ) Free cash flow $ 5,244 (8,896 ) As a percentage of revenue: Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 17 % (11 )% Less: Purchases of property and equipment (8 )% (10 )% Less: Capitalized internal-use software (1 )% (1 )% Free cash flow margin 8 % (22 )% Calculated Billings We believe that calculated billings is a key metric to measure our periodic performance. Calculated billings represents our revenue plus the change in deferred revenue in a period. Calculated billings in any particular period aims to reflect amounts invoiced for subscriptions to access our cloud platform, together with related support services related to our new and existing customers. We typically invoice our customers annually in advance, and to a lesser extent quarterly in advance, monthly in advance or multi-year in advance. Calculated billings increased $23.0 million , or 56% , for the three months ended October 31, 2018 over the three months ended October 31, 2017 . As calculated billings continues to grow in absolute terms, we expect our calculated billings growth rate to trend down over time. We also expect that calculated billings will be affected by seasonality in terms of when we enter into agreements with customers; and the mix of billings in each reporting period as we typically invoice customers annually in advance, and to a lesser extent quarterly in advance, monthly in advance or multi-year in advance. Three Months Ended October 31, 2018 2017 (in thousands) Revenue $ 63,298 $ 39,861 Add: Total deferred revenue, end of period 165,279 98,266 Less: Total deferred revenue, beginning of period (164,023 ) (96,619 ) Calculated billings $ 64,554 $ 41,508 Components of Results of Operations Revenue We generate revenue primarily from sales of subscriptions to access our cloud platform, together with related support services. These subscription and related support services accounted for approximately 99% of our revenue for the three months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017 . Our contracts with our customers do not at any time provide the customer with the right to 33 take possession of the software that runs our cloud platform. Our customers may also purchase professional services, such as mapping, implementation, network design and training. Professional services account for an immaterial portion of our revenue. We generate revenue from contracts with typical durations ranging from one to three years. We typically invoice our customers annually in advance, and to a lesser extent quarterly in advance, monthly in advance or multi-year in advance. We recognize revenue ratably over the life of the contract. Amounts that have been invoiced are recorded in deferred revenue, or they are recorded in revenue if the revenue recognition criteria have been met. Subscriptions that are invoiced annually in advance or multi-year in advance represent a significant portion of our short-term and long-term deferred revenue in comparison to invoices issued quarterly in advance or monthly in advance. Accordingly, we cannot predict the mix of invoicing schedules in any given period. We generally experience seasonality in terms of when we enter into agreements with our customers. We typically enter into a higher percentage of agreements with new customers, as well as renewal agreements with existing customers, in our second and fourth fiscal quarters. However, because we recognize revenue ratably over the terms of our subscription contracts, a substantial portion of the revenue that we report in each period is attributable to the recognition of deferred revenue relating to agreements that we entered into during previous periods. Consequently, increases or decreases in new sales or renewals in any one period may not be immediately reflected as revenue for that period. Any downturn in sales, however, may negatively affect our revenue in future periods. Accordingly, the effect of downturns in sales and market acceptance of our platform, and potential changes in our rate of renewals, may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue includes expenses related to operating our cloud platform in data centers, depreciation of our data center equipment and the amortization of our capitalized internal-use software. Cost of revenue also includes employee-related costs, including salaries, bonuses, stock-based compensation expense and employee benefit costs associated with our customer support and cloud operations organizations. Cost of revenue also includes overhead costs for facilities, IT, and amortization and depreciation expense. As our customers expand and increase the use of our cloud platform driven by additional applications and connected devices, our cost of revenue will increase due to higher bandwidth and data center expenses. However, we expect to continue to benefit from economies of scale as our customers increase the use of our cloud platform. We intend to continue to invest additional resources in our cloud platform and our customer support organizations as we grow our business. The level and timing of investment in these areas could affect our cost of revenue in the future. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Gross profit, or revenue less cost of revenue, and gross margin, or gross profit as a percentage of revenue, have been and will continue to be affected by various factors, including the timing of our acquisition of new customers and our renewals of and follow-on sales to existing customers, the average sales price of our services, mix of services offered in our solutions, the data center and bandwidth costs associated with operating our cloud platform, the extent to which we expand our customer support and cloud operations organizations and the extent to which we can increase the efficiency of our technology, infrastructure and data centers through technological improvements. We expect our gross profit to increase in absolute dollars and gross margin to remain relatively unchanged over the long-term, although our gross margin could fluctuate from period to period depending on the interplay of all of the above factors. 34 Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development and general and administrative expenses. Personnel costs are the most significant component of operating expenses and consist of salaries, benefits, bonuses, stock-based compensation expense and, with respect to sales and marketing expenses, sales commissions that are recognized as expenses. Operating expenses also include overhead costs for facilities, IT and depreciation expense. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of employee compensation and related expenses, including salaries, bonuses and benefits for our sales and marketing employees, sales commissions that are recognized as expenses over the period of benefit, stock-based compensation expense, marketing programs, travel and entertainment expenses, expenses for conferences and events and allocated overhead costs. We capitalize our sales commissions and associated payroll taxes and recognize them as expenses over the estimated period of benefit. The amount recognized in our sales and marketing expenses reflects the amortization of cost previously deferred as attributable to each period presented in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as described below under "Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates." We intend to continue to make significant investments in our sales and marketing organization to drive additional revenue, further penetrate the market and expand our global customer base. As a result, we expect our sales and marketing expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars and to be our largest operating expense category for the foreseeable future. In particular, we will continue to invest in growing and training our sales force, broadening our brand awareness and expanding and deepening our channel partner relationships. However, we expect our sales and marketing expenses to decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the long term, although our sales and marketing expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. Research and Development Our research and development expenses support our efforts to add new features to our existing offerings and to ensure the reliability, availability and scalability of our solutions. Our cloud platform is software-driven, and our research and development teams employ software engineers in the design, and the related development, testing, certification and support, of these solutions. Accordingly, a majority of our research and development expenses result from employee-related costs, including salaries, bonuses and benefits, stock-based compensation expense and costs associated with technology tools used by our engineers. We expect our research and development expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future, as we continue to invest in research and development efforts to enhance the functionality of our cloud platform, improve the reliability, availability and scalability of our platform and access new customer markets. However, we expect our research and development expenses to decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the long term, although our research and development expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of employee-related costs, including salaries and bonuses, stock-based compensation expense and employee benefit costs for our finance, legal, human resources and administrative personnel, as well as professional fees for external legal services (including certain litigation-related expenses), audit, accounting and other related consulting services. These litigation-related expenses include professional fees and related costs incurred by us in defending significant claims that we deem not to be in the ordinary course of our business and, if applicable, accruals related to estimated losses in connection with these claims. We expect our general and administrative expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future, due to additional costs associated with audit, accounting, compliance, insurance and investor relations as we operate as a public company, and due to ongoing legal matters and related accruals, certain of which are described in further detail in Note 6 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly 35 Report on Form 10-Q. However, we expect our general and administrative expenses to decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the long term, although our general and administrative expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. In particular, litigation-related expenses related to significant litigation claims may result in significant fluctuations from period to period as they are inherently subject to change and difficult to estimate. Interest Income, net Interest income consist primarily of income earned on our cash equivalents and short-term investments and interest earned on outstanding notes receivable extended to certain current and former employees who early exercised their stock options. For more information on these notes receivable, refer to Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Other Expense, net Other expense, net consists primarily of foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Provision for Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes consists primarily of income and withholding taxes in the foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business, offset by the tax benefit for excess stock-based compensation deductions. We have not recorded any U.S. federal income tax expense. We have recorded deferred tax assets for which we provide a full valuation allowance, which includes net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits. We expect to maintain this full valuation allowance for the foreseeable future as it is more likely than not that some or all of those deferred tax assets may not be realized based on our history of losses. Du ring the period ended October 31, 2018, we determined that due to the weight of objectively verifiable negative evidence, our UK deferred tax assets are no longer more likely than not to be realized in future and a full valuation allowance was recorded during the period. 36 Results of Operations The following table set forth our results of operations for the periods presented in dollars: Three Months Ended October 31, 2018 2017 (in thousands) Revenue $ 63,298 $ 39,861 Cost of revenue (1) 12,099 8,271 Gross profit 51,199 31,590 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing (1) 36,545 26,928 Research and development (1)(2) 13,186 8,809 General and administrative (1)(3) 10,131 7,130 Total operating expenses 59,862 42,867 Loss from operations (8,663 ) (11,277 ) Interest income, net 1,590 195 Other expense, net (188 ) (27 ) Loss before income taxes (7,261 ) (11,109 ) Provision for income taxes 327 289 Net loss $ (7,588 ) $ (11,398 ) (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended October 31, 2018 2017 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 503 $ 109 Sales and marketing 2,801 785 Research and development 2,795 398 General and administrative 1,487 441 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 7,586 $ 1,733 (2) Includes amortization expense of acquired intangible assets as follows: Three Months Ended October 31, 2018 2017 (in thousands) Amortization expense of acquired intangible assets $ 95 $ (3) Includes litigation-related expenses as follows: Three Months Ended October 31, 2018 2017 (in thousands) Litigation-related expenses $ 2,174 $ 2,146 37 The following table set forth our results of operations for the periods presented as a percentage of our revenue: Three Months Ended October 31, 2018 2017 Revenue 100% 100% Cost of revenue 19% 21% Gross margin 81% 79% Operating expenses Sales and marketing 58% 68% Research and development 21% 22% General and administrative 16% 17% Total operating expenses 95% 107% Operating margin (14)% (28)% Interest income, net 3% % Other income (expense), net % % Loss before income taxes (11)% (28)% Provision for income taxes 1% 1% Net loss (12)% (29)% Comparison of the Three Months Ended October 31, 2018 and 2017 Revenue Three Months Ended October 31, Change 2018 2017 $ % (in thousands) Revenue $ 63,298 $ 39,861 $ 23,437 59 % Revenue increased by $23.4 million , or 59% , for the three months ended October 31, 2018 , compared to the three months ended October 31, 2017 . The increase in revenue was attributable to the addition of new customers, which contributed $12.6 million , as we increased our customer base from October 31, 2017 to October 31, 2018 . The remainder of the increase in revenue was attributable to an increase in users and sales of additional subscriptions to existing customers as reflected by our dollar-based net retention rate of 118% for the trailing 12 months ended October 31, 2018 . 38 Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Three Months Ended October 31, Change 2018 2017 $ % (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 12,099 $ 8,271 $ 3,828 46 % Gross margin 81 % 79 % Cost of revenue increased by $3.8 million , or 46% , for the three months ended October 31, 2018 , compared to the three months ended October 31, 2017 . The overall increase in cost of revenue was driven by expanded use of our cloud platform by existing and new customers. The increase in cost of revenue was primarily due to an increase of $1.7 million for data center expenses related to hosting and operating of our cloud platform for our expanded customer base and an increase in employee-related costs of $1.8 million , including an increase of $0.4 million in stock-based compensation expense, driven by a 41% increase in headcount in our customer support and cloud operations organizations from October 31, 2017 to October 31, 2018 . The remainder of the increase was primarily attributable to increased expenses of $0.4 million for facility and IT costs. Gross margin increased from 79% during the three months ended October 31, 2017 to 81% during the three months ended October 31, 2018 . The increase in gross margin was driven by an increase in revenue and was also due in part to the increased efficiency of our technology, infrastructure and data centers enabled by technological improvements, even as our customers expanded their use of our cloud platform. Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing Expenses Three Months Ended October 31, Change 2018 2017 $ % (in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 36,545 $ 26,928 $ 9,617 36 % Sales and marketing expenses increased by $9.6 million , or 36% , for the three months ended October 31, 2018 , compared to the three months ended October 31, 2017 . The increase was primarily driven by $4.9 million in increased employee-related costs, inclusive of an increase of $2.0 million in stock-based compensation expense, driven by a 16% increase in headcount in our sales and marketing organization from October 31, 2017 to October 31, 2018 , and by an increase of $0.9 million in sales commissions expense. The remainder of the increase was primarily attributable to increased expenses of $2.6 million in marketing and advertising expenses and increased expenses of $0.6 million for facility and IT costs. Research and Development Expenses Three Months Ended October 31, Change 2018 2017 $ % (in thousands) Research and development $ 13,186 $ 8,809 $ 4,377 50 % Research and development expenses increased by $4.4 million , or 50% , for the three months ended October 31, 2018 , compared to the three months ended October 31, 2017 as we continued to develop and enhance the functionality of our cloud platform. The increase was primarily driven by $4.1 million in increased employee-related costs, inclusive of an increase of 39 $2.4 million in stock-based compensation expense, driven by a 21% increase in headcount from October 31, 2017 to October 31, 2018 . General and Administrative Expenses Three Months Ended October 31, Change 2018 2017 $ % (in thousands) General and Administrative $ 10,131 $ 7,130 $ 3,001 42 % General and administrative expenses increased by $3.0 million , or 42% , for the three months ended October 31, 2018 , compared to the three months ended October 31, 2017 . The increase was primarily driven by $1.8 million in employee-related costs, inclusive of an increase of $1.0 million in stock-based compensation expense, driven by a 51% increase in headcount from October 31, 2017 to October 31, 2018 , and $0.3 million in professional services as we transitioned to being a public company. The remainder of the increase was primarily driven by $0.5 million in increased legal expenses related to ongoing legal matters and related accruals. Interest Income, Net Three Months Ended October 31, Change 2018 2017 $ % (in thousands) Interest income, net $ 1,590 $ 195 $ 1,395 715 % Interest income, net increased by $1.4 million , or 715% , for the three months ended October 31, 2018 , compared to the three months ended October 31, 2017 . The increase was primarily driven by increased interest income earned from our investments in cash equivalents and short-term investments, as a result of additional cash received from our IPO. Other Expense, Net Three Months Ended October 31, Change 2018 2017 $ % (in thousands) Other expense, net $ (188 ) $ (27 ) $ (161 ) (596 )% Other expense, net decreased by $0.2 million , or 596% , for the three months ended October 31, 2018 , compared to the three months ended October 31, 2017 . The decrease was primarily driven by fluctuations in foreign currency transaction gains and losses for the three months ended October 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended October 31, 2017 . Provision for Income Taxes Three Months Ended October 31, Change 2018 2017 $ % (in thousands) Provision for income taxes $ 327 $ 289 $ 38 13 % 40 Our provision for income taxes increased by 13% , for the three months ended October 31, 2018 , compared to the three months ended October 31, 2017 , primarily related to income taxes in the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. Our tax provision for interim periods is determined using an estimate of our annual effective tax rate, adjusted for discrete items, if any, that arise during the period. Each quarter, we update our estimate of the annual effective tax rate, and if the estimated annual effective tax rate changes, we make a cumulative adjustment in such period. Our quarterly tax provision, and estimate of our annual effective tax rate, is subject to variation due to several factors, including variability in pre-tax income (or loss), the mix of jurisdictions to which such income relates, changes in how we do business, and tax law developments. Our estimated effective tax rate for the year differs from the U.S. statutory rate of 21% primarily due to the benefit of a portion of our earnings being taxed at rates lower than the U.S. statutory rate. The realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of sufficient taxable income of the appropriate character in future periods. We assess our ability to realize our deferred tax assets on a quarterly basis and we establish a valuation allowance if it is more-likely-than-not that some portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. We weigh all available positive and negative evidence, including our earnings history and results of recent operations, scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income and tax planning strategies. Due to the weight of objectively verifiable negative evidence, including our history of losses in certain jurisdictions, we believe that it is more likely than not that our U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets will not be realized. Accordingly, we have maintained a valuation allowance on its U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets. During the three months ended October 31, 2018, we determined that due to the weight of objectively verifiable negative evidence our UK deferred tax assets are no longer more likely than not to be realized in future and a full valuation allowance was recorded during this period. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, or the Tax Act, was enacted. The Tax Act contains several key tax provisions that affect us, including, but not limited to, reducing the U.S. federal corporate tax rate, imposing a one-time mandatory transition tax on previously untaxed foreign earnings and changing rules related to the use of net operating loss carryforwards created in tax years beginning after December 31, 2017. We will complete our assessment of the impacts of the Tax Act, including the remeasurement of our deferred taxes, the one-time mandatory transition tax, and the policy decision regarding whether to record deferred taxes associated with GILTI during the second quarter of this fiscal year in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, Income Tax Accounting Implications of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("SAB 118"). Our final assessment of the Tax Act may differ from our provisional estimates during the measurement period due to, among other things, further refinement in our calculations, changes in interpretations and assumptions we have made, or guidance that may be issued. However, due to our full valuation allowance, any changes to our provisional estimates will have no impact to our tax expense. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of October 31, 2018 , our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments totaling $314.0 million which were held for working capital purposes. Our cash equivalents and investments consist of highly liquid investments in money market funds, U.S. treasury securities, U.S. government agency securities and corporate debt securities. In March 2018, upon completion of our IPO, we received net proceeds of $205.3 million , net of underwriters' discounts and commissions of $15.5 million . In connection with the IPO, we incurred offering costs of $6.5 million which were recorded in stockholders' equity (deficit) as a reduction of the net proceeds received from the IPO. Previously, we have financed our operations principally through private placements of our equity securities, as well as payments received from customers using our cloud platform and services. 41 We have generated significant operating losses from operations, as reflected in our accumulated deficit of $203.4 million as of October 31, 2018 . We expect to continue to incur operating losses and generate negative cash flows from operations in future periods due to expected investments to grow our business. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments will be sufficient to fund our operating and capital needs for at least the next 12 months from the issuance of our financial statements. Our assessment of the period of time through which our financial resources will be adequate to support our operations is a forward-looking statement and involves risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could vary as a result of, and our future capital requirements, both near-term and long-term, will depend on, many factors, including our growth rate, the timing and extent of spending to support our research and development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing and international operating activities, the timing of new introductions of solutions or features, and the continuing market acceptance of our services. We have and may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services and technologies, including intellectual property rights. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we could use our available capital resources sooner than we currently expect. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, or if we cannot expand our operations or otherwise capitalize on our business opportunities because we lack sufficient capital, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. We typically invoice our customers annually in advance, and to a lesser extent quarterly in advance, monthly in advance or multi-year in advance. Therefore, a substantial source of our cash is from such prepayments, which are included on our consolidated balance sheets as a contract liability. Deferred revenue consists of the unearned portion of billed fees for our subscriptions, which is subsequently recognized as revenue in accordance with our revenue recognition policy. As of October 31, 2018 , we had deferred revenue of $165.3 million , of which $144.5 million was recorded as a current liability and is expected to be recorded as revenue in the next 12 months, provided all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. Subscriptions that are invoiced annually in advance or multi-year in advance contribute significantly to our short-term and long-term deferred revenue in comparison to our invoices issued quarterly in advance or monthly in advance. Accordingly, we cannot predict the mix of invoicing schedules in any given period. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended October 31, 2018 2017 (in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 11,014 $ (4,352 ) Net cash used in investing activities $ (115,346 ) $ (4,544 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 11,449 $ (3,322 ) Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities during the three months ended October 31, 2018 was $11.0 million , which resulted from a net loss of $7.6 million , adjusted for non-cash charges of $13.9 million and net cash inflows of $4.7 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of $7.6 million for stock-based compensation expense, $4.3 million for amortization of deferred contract acquisition costs and $2.2 million for depreciation and amortization expense. The net cash inflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities was primarily the result of a $12.4 million decrease in accounts receivable primarily due to timing of billings and collections, aggregate $2.1 million increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities and $1.3 million increase in deferred revenue from advance invoicing in accordance with our subscription contracts. The cash inflows were partially offset by cash outflows resulting from an $5.5 million decrease in accrued compensation and accounts payable, $4.4 million increase in deferred contract acquisition costs, as our sales 42 commission payments increased due to addition of new customers and expansion of our existing customer subscriptions and $1.1 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets. Net cash used in operating activities during the three months ended October 31, 2017 was $4.4 million , which resulted from a net loss of $11.4 million , adjusted for non-cash charges of $6.5 million and net cash inflows of $0.6 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of $2.9 million for amortization of deferred contract acquisition costs, $1.9 million for depreciation and amortization expense and $1.7 million for stock-based compensation expense. The net cash inflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities was primarily the result of a $8.6 million decrease in accounts receivable primarily due to timing of billings and collections , $1.6 million increase in deferred revenue from advance invoicing in accordance with our subscription contracts and an aggregate $0.8 million increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities. The cash inflows were partially offset by cash outflows resulting from an $4.2 million increase in deferred contract acquisition costs, as our sales commission payments increased due to addition of new customers and expansion of our existing customer subscriptions, $5.6 million decrease in accrued compensation and accounts payable and a $0.7 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities during the three months ended October 31, 2018 of $115.3 million was primarily attributable to the purchases of short-term investments of $137.4 million , investments in capital expenditures of $5.8 million to support our cloud platform and headcount and payments for acquired intangible assets of $1.5 million . These activities were partially offset by proceeds from the maturities of short-term investments of $29.3 million . Net cash used in investing activities during the three months ended October 31, 2017 of $4.5 million resulted primarily from investments in capital expenditures to support our cloud platform, additional office space and headcount. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities of $11.4 million during the three months ended October 31, 2018 was primarily attributable to $9.8 million in proceeds from the exercise of stock options, primarily as a result of the termination of our initial public offering lock-up period ending in September 2018, and $1.9 million in proceeds from repayments of notes receivable for early exercised stock options. Proceeds were partially offset by $0.2 million in payments of offering costs related to our IPO. Net cash used in financing activities of $3.3 million during the three months ended October 31, 2017 was primarily due to $3.1 million in payments for repurchases of common stock related to early exercised stock options and $1.4 million in payments of offering costs related to our IPO. These activities were partially offset by $1.2 million in proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Contractual Obligations and Commitments During the three months ended as October 31, 2018 , there have been no material changes outside the ordinary course of business to our contractual obligations and commitments from those disclosed in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, set forth in Part II, Item 7, or our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2018 filed with the SEC on September 13, 2018. See Note 6 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a table of our contractual obligations and commitments as of October 31, 2018 . 43 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of October 31, 2018 , we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated organizations or financial partnerships, such as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, as well as related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. We refer to accounting estimates of this type as critical accounting policies and estimates, which we discuss below. Our significant accounting policies are discussed in Note 1. Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements included in the Companys Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, on September 13, 2018. There have been no significant changes to these policies for the three months ended October 31, 2018 , except as described in Note 1. Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. JOBS Act Extended Transition Period We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the JOBS Act. Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards issued subsequent to the enactment of the Act until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption from new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, we will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 1. Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information regarding recently issued accounting pronouncements.